ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Remember that Anna Ottadui, the Member of Parliament, has delegated the vow. First point in theme list: "Punish another proposition as a team of legislatures, in the European Union, of abolishing the subsidies of large corporations. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Casanova, it's your word to introduce and remove initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u1	Hello, good morning, everyone. From the year 2002, to the year of 2010, a malicious tax system had been established in Luxembourg. By this system, 350 multinational corporations signed a secret pact to pay less tax to the State of Luxembourg: according to the local and established legislation, when it was to be paid around 28%, it was in practice that they paid 1%. This secret compact is given an official name at the economics and is tax rulings. In reality another name would have been more appropriate: legal fraud. It seems, and experts say, these practices are in this part of legality, so they're not out of legality, but they're definitely out of the limits of morality, they're not moral at all. This may have been either one of the scandals that are given at first around fraud and eusia, but there is a very different factor, and is that, while this was being carried on, he was a member of the government of Luxemburg, the Ministry of the Seed, and at other times a Prime Minister, Jean Claude Junker. And as Mr. Jean-Claude Junger is a person responsible for these immoral practices, he is now the President of the European Committee, that is to say, the most important political office in the European Union, a person who has a direct connection with this legal fraud and responsibility. And this, in a word, seems unacceptable to us. There have been other scandals, as has been said: Switzerland's account, the famous list of Falciini, the U.S.C.'s immunity and so on. And today's subject isn't secondary. Sometimes when we talk about corruption, we say symbolic damage is more serious than economic damage. In domestic corruption, truth is said to move very little money, a few million at the most, and we often say: the worst is not only that money is lost by fraud, but that moral injury is dissolved by the image of politics. But in this case it is not so. If we're talking about the prosecutor and the D.A., we're talking about one of the major problems of today's economic system, if it's not the worst. In Europe a billion dollars is lost every year, or one does not collect by the public prosecutor, by fraud and elussion, a billion of them. One billion dollars is the entire raw internal product of the Spanish State, four times the debt of Greece, the budget of the European Union, the quantity of economic product which presents three times as a miracle to us, that is to say, of the resources which Europe will mobilize to the crisis. And this is lost by the prosecutor's elusium, which is a huge sum. And that's not the worst part of it. It's not the worst thing you can't pay for today's legislation. The worst is that the legislation of the day is conditioned by the anlusion, that is, the taxes required in many places are not implanted by the government because they say: Of course, these taxes would be juster, but if we put them in force, the money would run away. So we can't put down the taxes we want, the taxes we need. but it is much more removed from it by this indirect effect. We may, therefore, say to the prosecutor, that the governments of Europe would have the means which they require to give their citizens the rank and rank of life which they need, and which they deserve. And if this is not so, it is because these practices are present and these practices exist. Beraz, are dezakegu, paraphrasing that philosopher, that the enemies of our welfare system, the enemies of our way of life, are not in distant mountains or remote deserts. Those who endanger our welfare state, our public services, our education, our health, our social benefits, are called brokers, they are called tax advisors, they are called great entrepreneurs who take their fortunes, who do not pay taxes, who prevent fair tax rules from being introduced. They are not in remote deserts, but they are among us, with ties. Neither do they have dark skin nor come from the Maghreb. It is others who develop, who carry out massive fraud, fraud that impairs the quality of life, the services and the rights of citizens. And so he's giving the world a concentration of enormous wealth. Of course, if the rich succeed not to pay taxes, or to pay very little taxes, they are richer and richer. And all sources say that in the final investigation of Intermón Oxfam organization, in 2016, the population will have as much money as 99% of the population. I mean, when we talk about %1 versus 99%, we're not talking demagogue, we're describing a real situation, a real situation. Riches accumulates, the current economic system has become a vacuum cleaner where the poor are continually sucking the resources of the poor. And this is possible, among other things, because the prosecution does not have the redistributor of paper to play. There are, of course, moral consequences in this situation. Many people live in poverty, even in the belief that they are a third world, there are people who remain in poverty, in poverty, even among the neglected sectors which grow larger and larger. Moral consequences, economic consequences, and even political consequences. Because those who collect these giant fortunes are entirely conditioned by the decisions adopted by the politicians, and they make up their minds to support their designs and their political interests. So they corrupt democracy. And that's what they do by different ways. Only the most powerful economic sector spends $1,000 a year in loby work, the decisions of political funding people. There are round doors-that is to say, a decent political one will always have a door open in a large company with a fine salary of thanks for the work he's done. And we know a great deal about this in our country. Merkatuen diktadura imposatzen da. In other times, when some school province dared to contradict the dictates of the empire, the gunships of the army entered the port, pointed the cannons at the government palace and said, "O yield, or we shoot." Right now, it is the markets that aim with their economic cannons at the peoples who want to decide their destiny outside their dictatorship, threatening with economic collapse, with the inability to access credit, with the sinking of the exchanges or coins. It is a modernized and sophisticated form of dictatorship, and this is precisely managed by the managers of these great accumulated fortunes, among other reasons, thanks to fraud and tax evasion. Aberatsenzat ez dago krisirik. Eta has been demagogy ez, datuak horrela exacteten dute. There is a Spanish expression that reflects very clearly what is happening right now in what some call crisis and others call fraud. It's a bit of a soez expression, which I'm going to spell out to repeat in this House, but they're actually pissing on our heads and telling us it's raining. The richest are getting richer. In the period that for the majority of the population has been economically tougher, the richest have become richer. This is not demagogic; these are the data. The world's eighty richest people have doubled their wealth between 2009 and 2014. In 2013 it was necessary to bring together the eighty-five richest in the world to accumulate sufficient or equivalent fortunes to the money that half of the world's population possessed. Eighty-five people had as much money as 3.5 billion people. Now, a year later, it's only necessary to bring together eighty rich people. As we continue to do so, we will reach an absolute point of concentration. They say that when the universe was born all matter was in one point, in an infinite density point. Perhaps with wealth the same thing will happen. But of course, what those who know a little physics say is that this point of infinite density was an instable and that it finally exploded. And that seems to happen in the world. And to make another example or another parable or comparison less scientific, we may say that it will happen to the rich, or that it will happen to the economic system what happened to one of the famous characters of the Monty Python film: eating and eating with an insatiable appetite until it explodes. This is why if perspective is not established by the means of repairing, if the other policy is not established by the prosecution; Progressive taxes, tax taxes on capital, taxes on inheritance. I have already mentioned the report of the Oxfam organization, and this institution is not a revolutionary movement, but a rather pre-eminent institution outside the government, it says in recommendations: "Hay que partari el esfuerzo fiscal de forma y equitativa, trasdando la carga tributari del laboro y el consumo al patrimono y el capital." La carga fiscal, al patrimonium y al capital. "Y esto nos suena en este país, porque tenemos un cytore a respectio en el que hay policiones encontactadas." Eta ez da Bakarrik Oxfam esaten duena, beste economialari askok esaten dute, besteak beste Joaquín Arriolak, professor of Applied Economy of the UPV, esaten du: "An expansive tax policy at the moment can only be financed or with more indebtedness or with more taxes on wealth and financial capital, because taxes on labor income and consumption do not give for more". Oh, yeah, you've got to be a zergak gehien daukatenengan, a zerg oriek izan behar will say progressioniboak, kapitalaren and wavearean heurean. I advance that we will not make an agreement with the other groups on this subject. And it's not for apoorism, you who've spent more time in this Chamber than I am, you know that our team has no principle problem with the other teams and that's what happens every week. But on this subject, we will not sign an agreement. Why? Because it can be very easy to sign a document or paper about a few pretty words, but then we believe that in practice the taxations are quite different and opposed. And that's seen in practice. And as we have seen this, it has not, in fact, felt that at this day there may be a coincidence about beautiful words, when each word gives a very different or opposite meaning. And we have examples of it. In this direction, in the direction in which international institutions and scholars and progressive economists recommend, you've made an agreement to destroy an attorney-general policy in this Chamber. You've reviewed the policy you brought to EH collect in Gipuz. "And you have prophesied that you would take away the tax which is on the rich, and that you would be willing to make a compact to save EH from the government of Gipulia. Some of you've tried the past to exist in our own case by the prosecutor Paradise. You have taken away the patrimony of the greatest times, and you have given to the rich hundreds of indispensable millions to supply the wants of the poor and the majority of the society. So I advance that the agreement today is impossible and that we will defend our motion, because we believe that there are two different and conflicting political policies here: That which proposes to collect EH, which is truly progressive, progressive, and most founded, must be paid more in principle; and other policies, which answer to other interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u2	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over the crews who were running the corrections, Mr. Damborea, representing the Popula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. After all we have heard, let's see if we focus a little on the subject that brought us here today, which was Bildu's denunciation of tax competition practices between Member States of the European Union, and in this case at the time of Mr Juncker, when he was President of Luxembourg. And it is clear that, as the representative of Bildu himself tells us, the twenty-two countries of the Union each in their own way try to make tax competition in the double sense of the word: exercise their tax competition, which they have, and also serve to make competition of companies which are based in their territory vis-à-vis other companies which are based in other territories. And it is clear that we have never liked that, and that is why we are proposing the amendment, demanding and asking the European Union once and for all, which has been trying for more than twenty years to harmonise taxes on corporate profits. So that we all understand each other here, corporation tax. We have reached agreement on this with all the other groups. We are much more in favour of harmonisation in Europe, because we do believe in Europe, we do believe in the euro. We know that for that to work, the whole economic system must be harmonized, and that there cannot be countries going on the one hand and countries going on the other. And, therefore, we do understand that in this case there must be much greater harmonisation in corporate tax than is currently being studied, only with regard to the tax bases. We too are in favour of some degree of harmonisation between the types in Europe. We all know..., here we are talking about Luxembourg, but we also know what is going on in Ireland and with the interest rates that corporation tax has in Ireland, and why even Spanish companies move their domicile to Ireland, or Spanish multinationals move their domicile to Ireland, because they obviously pay less taxes, and those are more profits to distribute to the company. Now, all this said, and since Bildu's representative mixes everything with us, the circumvention (which is the enforcement of laws trying to pay less) with the evasion (which is tax fraud), and with the Falciani list and with all this, we cannot fail to say that at the moment the Gipuzkoa Diputation is one of those that makes disloyal competition to the rest of Spain's administrations in this matter. He makes a disloyal competition. And when Mr Montoro's reform was very criticized in this Parliament, and he was called a tax amnesty to reform precisely to avoid tax evasion and to punish the fraudsters, and we said that, man, some complain that with the reform of Mr Montoro some, to regulate themselves in the margin given to them, had to pay 10%, and here it was paid 1%, two and a half years later it turns out that, I do not know if one of those eighty billionaires is Gipuzcoan or not, but if he were a fraudster in Spain, if he were resident in common territory or in Álava, he would have to pay 50% of all the money he had outside, and if he were resident in Gipuzkoa he would pay 1% of the profits in recent years. And that's called unfair competition in fraud. Today, with the legislation of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, a gentleman on the Falciani list leaves for free. So, come here to give us the other lessons of fighting tax fraud, of fiscal ethics, of morality, of how they cheat and how they rob us all, and the rich are richer and the poor are poorer, and it turns out that when someone has instruments to make that not so they don't do it, but quite the opposite, man, the least I would have to have is a certain sense of coming here to talk to others about how they strive to fight tax fraud. Today in Spain, and in some other territory besides Gipuzkoa, the biggest beneficiaries who have opaque accounts, black money anywhere in the world..., where they best leave them is being a Gipuzcoan resident. But, of course, the difference is so abysmal between what a gentleman who is on the Falciani list would have to pay if he is a Gipuzcoan resident or of common territory, or praised for setting an example... Of course, we are talking about that if, for 3 million euros, in Gipuzkoa with 40,000 it arranges, in the rest it would have to pay more than one and a half million euros, that is, more than half of the money it has. And something you'd have to explain. If you are so concerned about this subject, this subject of circumvention and evasion, we would like to see that, since you have powers in an outside parliament with fiscal powers, as well as coming here to speak... You said the nice words, "we can," "we don't want"... We agree on the nice words... Look, we agree on the nice words..., I don't know if we agree; of course not in fact. In fact, that's where we don't agree with you and us. With others I do not know if they coincide, with us in this matter they do not coincide. And so, what do you want me to say to him? We will not come to give lessons in this matter, at least not to us (and when I say we say to the People's Group), because it turns out that where we govern, if someone is caught defrauding, more than half of the money would have to pay, and in your case... You said that with Mr. Juncker, with the operation he had, they paid 1%. Man!, just like in Gipuzkoa and a fraudster on the Falciani list. Sure. It's just that you're doing the same thing! So, what I'm asking is just a little coherence. The same thing you say about others who do that, which seems very wrong to you, apply it to them and correct it. Man, you've still got a few months before the legislature's over to come up with something. Look, we'll support you if you raise it in the Gipuzkoa Diputation, but plant it. And we have come to an agreement with the rest of Parliament's groups (with the Nationalist Group, with the Socialist Group and with UPyD) in which, of course, we reject the practices that have taken place in this area, and we urge the European Union to have harmonious legislation in all states, which, while respecting the fiscal powers of each state, somehow prohibits or prevents unfair competition or tax dumping within the European Union itself. And in this case we would also urge the Gipuzkoa Parliament to also correct the dumping it practices in tax fraud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u4	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr Pricee, the Basque Socialist representer of the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u5	President, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialists think it is very timely that the Basque Parliament today should be able to take a decision on European fiscal policy and on tax fraud in Europe. Firstly, because it is a policy on which we have competence, it is up to us; because we are responsible, of course, and it is also up to us, and also out of conscience, because we also want Europe to have a political, social and ethical configuration that can be of coexistence for all the citizens of the European Union at the highest possible levels of equality. Indeed, we are facing a major scandal, we are facing extraordinary tax fraud, and we are facing political practices that undermine the European Union itself, that undermine the decency of the European Union, and that also undermine the highest political authority of that European Union. Juncker is the President of the European Union; he is, in turn, or was the President of Luxembourg, of the country that welcomed tax practices to defraud, to squander, to reduce public resources for citizens across Europe. Because 384 multinationals are affected, twenty-four countries host these multinationals, and therefore this is a tax fraud, this is a tax policy that has harmed the whole of the European Union. That Juncker is now, with this background, the President of the European Commission is no longer a disgrace to politics, an indecency to politics, and a problem that we will have to overcome. In vain the Spanish socialists said no to Juncker, we said that Juncker was not the person who needed the European Union, who could dignify politics or who could produce recovery or another different policy in this crisis for all the citizens of Europe. Well, there were finally those who understood it, and there it is. There is a President of the European Union who is more than under suspicion, who is under investigation, who is on the loose, and who is going to be impossible to be an active element in bringing the European Union out of the crisis. For many efforts that Juncker is currently making, trying with a few hundred billion euros to talk about recovery and stimulus to the economy, the reality is that over the past ten years it has not been hundreds of billion euros, but billion euros have been squandered from the public coffers. The right in Europe and in the European countries, the conservatives in Europe and in the European countries, during all these years of long crisis caused by capitalism against capitalism, by speculative capitalism against productive capitalism, have shown us with great emphasis that countries could not spend more money than they had, that they had to balance the accounts, and they have imposed those austerity or austeridicid policies, those policies of cuts, of co-payments and of rests, because here money was being squandered, because it was working from the public beyond the possibilities, because someone was spending more than what they entered. And when situations like this arise, when you see that there are billions of euros that have been derived from the public to the private, with these cheating fiscal policies like those that have been made in Luxembourg, what is shown is that if the public coffers of countries had had the public resources that have been defrauded we would be in another situation. We would have other resources, we could make other policies, there would be another job, there would be another social care, there would be other public policies, there would be other public services and other equality policies. But, of course, when what is done is to take the money away from income, then, in the end, it happens that it does not arrive, that there is indebtedness and that there are cuts, always in a vicious circle that is organized by them. And I believe that today there is a significant element in this debate and also in the amendment that we have agreed on four political groups, because there are a number of things in that amendment. There are things that I am talking about: things that are going on to fight tax fraud, things that are going on to fight tax evasion, to clarify things, to investigate, to support research, to demand and demand political responsibilities from whoever has been behind this. But something is said that is very important for Basque politics and for the debates that we have had in this House over the past year and a half. This amendment proposes that a European fiscal policy is needed, that a European company tax is needed, that we need to have the same conditions and circumstances throughout the European Union, because, if not, inequality is ensured, and because, if not, the doors to these practices of tax fraud and avoidance would also be totally open. Because I think that's very confusing with the debates we've had here. We have been discussing whether taxation should be territorial, whether the Basque Parliament could intervene in taxation or should intervene in taxation. Today we make one more jump. Here we have had debates on fiscal policy which have unified part of taxation throughout the Basque Country; which has then been transferred to the outlaws, who are the ones who have the competition from the legal perspective, but with a fiscal policy that has been defined, that has been unitary, that has been a majority, that has had a lot of support so that it can be carried forward. Well, today we are taking a leap forward; today we are proposing that this policy here, this policy on some of the taxes, needs to have a European dimension, because, if not, we are in difficult conditions and in conditions of problems for public resources and also for reasonable and real competition with the rest of the countries that we make up the European Union. There have been episodes of Basque fiscal policy in which the European Union has intervened, there have been episodes in which the European Union has said, or "does not comply with European directives", or "does not comply with European procedures". Fiscal holidays could be one of the elements of the European Union's intervention in Basque policy. It is therefore clear that, if the European Union intervenes on Basque taxation, because Basque taxation has not done the procedures as it should have done, it is reasonable for the Basque Parliament also to require the European Union to intervene in what concerns us too, through fraudulent practices and practices of circumvention or tax engineering or covert subsidies, or what it wants to call them, so that those who have the most, the most powerful, continue to pay less. We welcome the fact that I would say that there is virtually unanimity on this, regardless of the position that each of us will take formally here on whether or not we support an amendment. There are four groups that support an amendment that I believe includes the substance, the fundamental, the unitary, and what is also common to all political groups, to the five political groups in this House. There is one who stays out, who goes a little on his own, who wants to differentiate himself, who wants to mean himself. Well, that doesn't even seem important to me, because I believe that we are putting forward very similar things, that we have common objectives, that we are also adding, in the perspective of a European fiscal policy, in the perspective of a European corporate tax, in the perspective of not allowing these tax frauds, investigating and demanding responsibilities. That there should be a European Union that is in the future more decent and less indecent than what we are discovering with things like this. I think this is the feeling of this House, I think it is the unanimous feeling of this House, and I think it is very important, because the fight against tax fraud has a vital component of conscience, it has a vital component of ethics, it has to be above many political considerations, because it actually affects the citizens as a whole. Because fiscal policy is from where society is organized, from where services are provided and from where opportunities are given to citizens. And all it is to take away resources from the public is to take away opportunities and take away services. And I think about that, more and more, there's a high sensitivity. And it will be that high sensitivity that is closing down possibilities and opportunities for tax havens that we ask to disappear, and fiscal policies like these, that we also ask to disappear and that their perpetrators assume their responsibilities. That is why the Socialists, as we have endorsed the compromise amendment, will support it, but we are also very pleased, and it seems to us that it is a step forward that this Parliament, above and above the role it represents, of the community it represents, of the space it represents, is demanding today that we need a more open, broader, and not less than a European policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u6	Thank you, Mr Price. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, all of you, counselors, Mr. lehendakari. Tax fraud is perfectly defined. Tax fraud is a deliberate form of tax evasion that is generally punishable under criminal law. The term includes situations in which false statements are deliberately presented or false documents are delivered. Tax evasion is also perfectly defined. Tax evasion includes illegal plans to conceal or ignore the obligation to tax. In other words, the taxpayer pays less taxes than he is legally obliged to pay by concealing income or information from the tax authorities. Tax planning is also perfectly defined. Tax planning consists of the evaluation of alternatives and the choice of the most convenient legal forms to reduce the tax impact, seeking to make a particular business more profitable. And aggressive tax planning, which consists of taking advantage of the technical aspects of a tax system or disagreements between two or more tax systems in order to reduce tax debt, is also perfectly defined. And aggressive fiscal planning can take various forms. Its consequences include double deductions and double non-taxation. The goal, according to UPyD, would be to push forward all political, economic and fiscal measures to achieve the goal that Adam Smith pointed out back in the 18th century, when he said that subjects (today citizens) must contribute to the support of government as close as possible to their respective capacities. On that maximum, the fairness or lack of fairness of taxes depends, and we do agree with this statement and with this objective. And, obviously, have a just, progressive and progressive taxation, where they pay more those who have more and that serves to sustain the welfare state and the needs of the whole citizenry. What are we talking about when we talk about the LuxLeaks scandal, which is the basis for the initiative presented by EH Bildu? What do we talk about when we talk about this scandal? We are talking about the fact that almost 350 multinationals signed secret tax agreements to lower their taxes with the Government of Luxembourg, at the head of which Juncker was. At the time of the agreements, Juncker was Prime Minister and Minister of Finance in Luxembourg. In the case we are dealing with are involved companies such as Pepsi, Apple, Amazon, Ikea and some others, and banks such as Morgan or Deutsche Bank. These multinationals would have relied on the fiscal flexibility of the country and on the shortcomings of international regulation to transfer their profits and avoid tax payments, or at least minimize it as much as possible. All these companies were assisted by Pricewaterhouse Coopers, which obtained around 550 tax decisions in Luxembourg between 2002 and 2010 to benefit from complex tax structures designed to create drastic tax reductions. In the LuxLeaks case, some companies even got corporate taxes of only 1% on the profits they brought to Luxembourg. And, of course, this kind of practice deserves a European response and a strong and also intelligent response. The truth is that at the time the great duchy said that the rules were perfectly respected; however, Germany immediately said that this could not be the case, and pointed out the injustice of the decisions made. The Minister of Finance criticized the subterfuges that employ some companies to pay less, and said that it can't be that a few get rich at the expense of many. This applies to both states and companies. And we agree with that statement, and we stand in relation to this scandal also in the European Parliament. Maite Pagazaurtundua required the European Commission to ensure the independence and impartiality of investigations into the Luxembourg tax evasion scandal called LuxLeaks, and said Pagazaurtundua that this scandal represents a very clear attack on the European Union, attacks European citizens, and against state finances that cover the services provided by the State. On the other hand, he said, it is a very clear case of unfair competition against all companies which, because they do not have the privileged treatment of Luxembourg, have to pay much higher tax rates. He also stated that it is essential for citizens and civil society to be able to know the whole truth about this case. And since the Commission has announced that it would investigate the case complained of in the leaks, we said, and bearing in mind that the President of the Commission was allegedly a necessary actor for these tax evasion pacts to be carried out, we said, that mechanisms should be put in place to ensure the independence and impartiality of these investigations. With regard to the committee of inquiry which was proposed and which did not come forward, for clarification, the decision whether or not to approve the Green Group's request to set up a committee of inquiry on this matter was taken exclusively by the Conference of Presidents, which is constituted by the chairmen of the political groups. Why the vote against the ALDE Group? Because an agreement had been reached with the two main political groups for the creation of a special, non-investigative committee on LuxLeaks, which was responsible for analysing the tax methods of some Member States of the European Union and which was adopted at the same Conference of Presidents and put to the vote in plenary. In any case, I also have to say, in order to clarify, that both Maite Pagazaurtundua and Beatriz Becerra, our MEPs there, two of the four we have, signed the initial proposal of the Greens to set up the committee of inquiry. And, indeed, UPyD supported the creation of such a commission of inquiry; not the creation of such a special commission, but in particular the creation of a commission of inquiry. In conclusion, it is essential to fight tax fraud, to fight tax evasion and to fight tax havens; it is fundamental to defend a just, progressive and progressive fiscal policy for the whole of the European Union, and of course it is essential to defend – and we have always defended it in this Parliament too – a single policy, a single fiscal policy for the whole of the European Union that makes fiscal dumping impossible. And, therefore, to shift powers also in this case, fiscal powers, upwards, to the European Union. And in this sense, obviously, it does not seem that it makes much sense for fiscal powers to remain in the hands of the general boards of the historic territories. We must shift powers, we must shift fiscal powers upwards, in order to try to have a common fiscal policy that prevents fiscal dumping as soon as possible. In view of all this, we have now tabled an amendment calling on the European Commission to ensure the independence and impartiality of investigations into the Luxembourg tax avoidance scandal called LuxLeaks. We also proposed to urge the European Union to defend and take necessary steps to establish a genuine fiscal union and a progressive, progressive and fair fiscal policy throughout the Union, including ambitious measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and the disappearance of tax havens. The same was also proposed for the Spanish Government and for the three outlaws. We also proposed to urge the Government of Spain and the foreign parliaments to take into account the battery of measures proposed by the majority association of tax inspectors, which included very interesting measures to combat the practices of tax havens and to reduce tax fraud. Finally, we proposed to urge the Government to promote the creation of a common, consolidated European tax base, which would allow the division of corporate tax collection between countries according to the company's presence in each of them. The latter was already presented as an amendment to the Government of Spain's corporate tax bill. In any case, we have indeed come to a compromise which I believe reflects the fundamentals of what should be done to combat these bad practices. That's why we signed it, and that's why we're going to vote for it. In any case, it should be pointed out, in conclusion – and some of this has been said by Mr Damborenea – that it is that just two days ago we read a very interesting information, which not by unknown interest to remember today, because we are talking about a matter certainly relevant: "Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa are more tolerant with those who hide goods abroad", we were informed through a means of communication, and it is something that is absolutely true. "Its regulations allow defrauders to access a cheap wash that is no longer available to taxpayers of the Tax Agency or the Álava Diputation." That is to say, something we can do here too, close to us, in particular with regard to Bizkaia and with regard to Gipuzkoa. Therefore, there are several groups here, all except UPyD, which have a presence on these general boards, and can therefore promote the modification of these tax regulations to prevent such bad practices. The truth – and I have already finished – is that with the regulations of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa a taxpayer who hides in Switzerland 3 million euros only has to pay 41,500 euros, while with the legislation in force in Álava and the State the same taxpayer would have to pay 1.46 million euros. That is to say, I say that both Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa should and should and should take action on this issue. This is also political practice, Mr EH Bildu Group spokesman. It is good to talk about Europe, we have to talk about Europe, but we can also talk about what exactly you do where you govern.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u8	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Gorospe, the Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to you presidents, chief officers, good morning to all of you. Mr. Casanova, since you've been the one who's been running the initiative and the one you've spoken to in the first round, I'll start calling you. And I'll begin by saying that you've already made it clear that you're entirely involved in the election campaign, and that you give more importance to your previously organized and planned speech. And I would say that here in the tax-mental area, as it has been in Europe, there has been a aggressive planning, even in your case, that you have made an aggressive planning in politics. Sano is curious to say that the words which we have placed in the intermediate correction and correction of so many different groups, are fine words; but that you will not sign that we agree. Because ye would not that ye should stand before men in the presence of men, to defend some imperfections. In the visualization you do not want that speech to be raised or flawed; that, with aggressive political planning – as we are talking about aggressive fiscal planning, which is what some states are unfortunately doing in Europe, in the European Union – with that aggressive political planning that you are doing, anything before you go out on the picture with others. And that, Mr. Casanova, shows a remarkable weakness, for what else do you do in such a sphere of political negotiations, an agreement, when there is room for consent, if you don't take advantage of the opportunity? Anything to avoid a deal of agreement. I really think it's surprising. For to-day we say in the middle: "The law of Europe rejects and condemns any kind of tax fraud or condemnation which has occurred in the Union of Europe." And you're not going to protect him. And we say so. "And we demand to determine the cares that political personalitys in the States which are involved in these practices." And you're not going to protect him. "And it requires a just communal tax policy, a redistributor, and a progressive policy which will destroy the States of the European Union in any other way than the tax-presumation of the taxation and any other form of taxation which resembles them." And you're not going to protect him. And we say: "To give you a European response to legal contributions and to escape and to take the necessary measures to vanish by the prosecutor and the prosecutor of Paradise," to proceed, to work. But you're not going to protect him. And we say: "To do all this, let him work on all the labourers, to avoid buying taxes, whether it be a fictitious and interested transfer of profiters, or to work upon a common principle of taxation." And you're not going to protect him. And that's the content of the halfway correction that we've signed. But anything you can't sign. Why? Because, as has been said before, you are entirely involved in this aggressive political project, and the other things are the same to you. You said you were involved in a tremendous process of stigmatization, and in all this we, of course, all the members of the Pure Party of Euncip, including other political parties. "Pero tambiens los satisfiedres, tambiens todas grandes emassis, tambiens todas las personas quellvan corbata..." That's a big process of fertility. "And we don't want anything with all this." Mr. Casanova, that's what comes out of your legs: a purely empty political populist discourse. It's all the same to you. You advance your strategy, and our party is by no means favorable to stigmatization, and we will not follow that road at all. We don't have any complex ones that you don't have, and you seem to have a few things to do, and you're going to have to close all that up. Hirugarren pertsona eabili izan duzu berba egiterakoan: "Politics rely on... to make the agreements." Was it zera zura zu ba, Casanova jauna? Hey, hey, hey, Politicians are based on... We base ourselves. Zu gure artean, berdin-berdin. You've been talking about debts. Well, Mr Garitano has just been congratulated by the mayor of Izagire Donostre for paying his debt well and lightly. You have mentioned the tax of the rich in the gym, and a spokesman has answered you. The man who seeks a fairer tax is the one who is in the gym, as you said, the one who gets it is to pay less for those who are really rich. That's what we're looking for. Let the true rich, as you have done, pay more without paying." And you punish money, which is productive and effective, instead of standing still. That's why we don't agree. You've mentioned that the Eucpist Party is looking for compacts to get out of the organizations in the Gipuz. If he had sought it, he would have it already, and now and again the nobi-nobi came to fetch us, saying that they are ready to do it. And never santan, because there's no such thing as will. This, as our spoker once said, will be decided by the Bohemians; it will not be a question of compacts; If it were a good compact, it would already be done. Mr Price, "impuesto de sociedes único," and Mr. Maneiro has gone that way, he's not in the Chamber now. We don't defend the only tax we defend is the harmonic tax. This does not mean that everything must be the same. What we say and proclaim, what we have always proclaimed, and what is absolutely necessary in this Europe, is that the scope, frame, and rules may be determined, and above all, the violation of holes, the tax-basement, and the like case of LuxLeaks, is that we need more chance to remove and remove these possibilities, and that Europe really must advance. This does not mean that the sole tax of the societates will be in all European Union. Here we have given the facts of the case, how it is. And we, as has been said, have agreed to do so in the intermediate correction, in order to examine it, to extract from the consequences of the special committee which Parliament has just accepted, and take responsibility for each individual. On the other hand, as has been discussed, we have asked the European Union to advance in the works of the Ecophy, to prevent the purchase of tax bases, and the interesting change of profit and benefits, as has been done in this case; and on the other hand, let the right-preservations of law examine the measures of a common system of taxation. This type of practice creates tensions in governments, which are damaged because they have to face lower revenues and higher compliance costs; tensions in individual-damaged taxpayers, who observe how large companies reduce, reduce their tax burden, treating the profits outside where they are generated, while they bear a higher burden; and tensions in other companies, which are harmed. Because not all companies, Mr Casanova, resort to such practices. Hence we plan to avoid everything in this sense, and to make it a fairer system of taxes. You're in time, check your decision, and give a halfway vote correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mr. Casanova, representing the EH Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u11	No, Mrs. Gorospe. This does not respond to any aggressive political planning. I understand that you are very nervous, because the truth is that you are growing mushrooms on all sides in recent times, but we do not plan the Prosecutor's Office to fight against Hiriko's issue, nor do we plan the new advisor to conceal from the lehendakari things of essential importance. That's not what we planned. These are things that have happened to you, perhaps through previous misdeeds or unrecommendable practices. So, if you are nervous, calm down, because here we are talking about fiscal policy, and what we have said is that we cannot sign a document of good fiscal policy intentions with whom in practice you are doing absolutely the opposite of what you are claiming in this document. And out of pure consistency, and not by aggressive political planning, we cannot sign tax policy documents with whom you are doing a tax policy contrary to what you are signing and contrary to what the social majority of the country demands. Mr. Damborenea, I think you're a vizcay (I don't say it with reproach, I am, too), but I think you're quite misinformed about what's going on in Gipuzkoa. Please read something else in the Basque Diary, or listen to Adegi, because it gives the impression that Gipuzkoa is a tax haven tailored to the great entrepreneurs, when in reality it is the territory that is being vanguard in taxing those who have most, with the consequent pataleo of which through these means I have mentioned you can be aware. But I regret that you have focused all your intervention, practically all of your intervention on a false premise. Indeed, in Gipuzkoa there is a tax benefit for tax evaders in case they decide to declare that money, but it is not a tax that Bildu has put in place. If you look, the PSOE officials and the PNV officials have not mentioned that alleged caramel to face Bildu. And they haven't, why? Because they're the ones who put that tax policy in place. In 2013 Bildu treated and limited this beneficial standard for offenders. In the context of the tax counter-reform launched by the PSOE and the PNV, it was re-established, copying Bizkaia's taxation and effectively giving unjustified advantages to the evaders. By the way, and oh surprise!, with the popular party's favorable vote. Therefore, it is not Bildu's policy, but the policy imposed by the PP, the PSOE and the PNV, which is responsible for the existence in Gipuzkoa of that hole in fiscal policy, which is also a hole contrary to the whole absolutely coherent policy that from the minute one Bildu is carrying in the institution of Gipuzcoana, on the premise that he pays more than he has, and he is also doing it with good results. While the supposedly wonderful property tax in Bizkaia, very well prepared, very well designed, collects 27% less than expected, and together Bizkaia's tax collection does not meet the objectives set, it prevents the collection of this Community from achieving the objectives set, in Gipuzkoa it is collected, and in the area of the wealth tax of the great fortunes more than set, despite the media lies and that some politicians in an irresponsible way – worth the paradox – feed, in the sense that the great fortunes of the entrepreneurs are leaving Gipuzkoa. That's not true. Both in the tax of the great fortunes and in the entire tax collection it is proving that in Gipuzkoa the fiscal policy of Bildu is producing results. Without further debt and cuts, social services are being maintained and more money raised. And elsewhere other people are doing another different policy, because you have a different ideology. In 2011 José Luis Bilbao, just to take office as deputy general, said: "We cannot restore the property tax, because money would be lost. It would not be collected any more, it would be collected less, because tax domiciles would be lost." That is the tax policy of the PNV: you can't tax the rich, because they're leaving. And that is a mistake, an ethical mistake, a political error and an economic error, as is being demonstrated in Gipuzkoa. And, therefore, we are not really talking about the same thing when we are talking about just and progressive fiscal policy. You put on a tax holiday, you made an attempt to create a tax haven in Bizkaia in the year 96. And there was José Luis Bilbao, by the way, in the Chamber, and there was Mr Bergara, who now appears again in a construction company that, oh by chance, worked for the Chamber of Gipuzkoa when the PNV managed it, and that also seems to be that she is now involved in judicial proceedings. And there was as a deputy of the Treasury a person who is now part of the management of Confebask. That's turntables. That is spurious relations between employers, parties and institutions. That is what we are denouncing, and that is what leads you to make a policy that is favourable to big entrepreneurs, but not in the sense of generating more wealth and more employment, but of increasing your individual assets purely and exclusively. Because in addition – and with this I conclude – as very serious studies such as that of Mr Piketty have shown, the great estates are not even people made to themselves who have created employment and created fortune. Simply, the vast majority of them are renters and heirs. And, by the way, I am glad that they are betting on the creation of commissions of inquiry, as the spokesman for his Government said that sometimes they only serve to entangle things. But, well, in this case they may not be tangled. Maybe they're just tangled up when they're investigating the PNV bugs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to disagree with Mr. Prieto on one point. You say that Juncker is not the most suitable for this issue and to fix this, and I will set you an example of something that the Basque Government did when the fishing inspection was created, which put the biggest predators of fishing inspectors, because they were the ones who knew the most. Perhaps in this case Mr Juncker, who is the most experienced or experienced, because he comes from a country in Europe that, in the end, has been practicing unfair fiscal competition with the rest of the Union's member states for many years – not just Mr Juncker, but the previous governments as well – because he is perhaps the best one to see how this is corrected at once and an agreement is reached. Bildu's representative... I already know perfectly well that the tax legislation we have comes from PNV-PSOE agreements long ago and many years ago, and to which we have often opposed. I reminded you that not two years ago in this Parliament, with this always giving birth to the People's Party and the Government of Spain, the reform was brought to bear and it was called "tax amnesty" in spite of Mr Montoro's tax reform, which corrected all that. And you first, and there are the little things they said from this rostrum (yes, from this rostrum). And I didn't tell you that Gipuzkoa is a tax haven for big companies or for entrepreneurs, listen, or for small ones. No; it is a disgrace the taxation that any businessman has in Gipuzkoa, so clear. What I have said to you, and I repeat, is that Gipuzkoa is a tax haven for tax fraudsters, which is different. It's for the fraudsters, for those who have the money out. And I have explained the data and how in Gipuzkoa, paying 1% of the returns that have produced in the last five years the trip hundred thousand million that are held out, the story is over. Which does not happen in Álava, by the way, where the PP governs in minority, but what a coincidence that this regulation is applied to correct that, and you have not bothered to do so. So, you can tell me that the regulations came from before. Yes, I know it was from before, and in Spain it was from before, too. It was also from before, and we proposed to change it, and they all gave birth to us, and we changed it. And now it turns out that those who didn't change it and keep it because they wanted to... Because other regulations well that have changed, well that have changed, for example the wrongly called heritage, or as you call it. Those have changed them. Of course, of course, it's that when they've wanted and what they've wanted they've changed it. And I know that the PNV and PSOE have opposed changing it in Bizkaia. Well, well, well. Here everyone who responds to what responds. But we cannot come here to stand up to others, the adalids of the fight against fraud, and it turns out that Gipuzkoa, Comanche territory in Europe, right?, tax haven for fraudsters. Not for entrepreneurs, neither big nor small. And in Bizkaia as well, but we already know where it comes from and why it comes from. And that's why I repeat that, in the end, it looks very good... In this beautiful words we could coincide in some case, but it is evident that in fact we do not coincide. And I have proposed in my previous speech that you put it in Gipuzkoa to correct it, that we support it. But plant it, if they really intend to fight tax fraud and that there are no defrauders who profit because they transfer their profit, because, for example, from Vitoria to San Sebastián, or from anywhere else to San Sebastián, and then, instead of paying more than 50%, they would pay 1%, because they would be detracting money that benefits citizens and to pay for the services of citizens in other places in Spain or in other Basque territory like Álava. It's something as simple as that. All their speeches are applied to the regulations they have in Gipuzkoa to combat tax fraud. And instead of looking so far – and you say you don't have to look so far, you have to look here – then, start looking at yourself, start looking at what you're doing, start looking at what legislation you have, and stop teaching others lessons. Copy, copy us if you're really so interested in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u14	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u15	President. It seems to me that these debates are interesting and that they are important if we are in the mood to add up and if we are in the mood to look forward, because if we get tangled or if we use jokes of bad taste, then probably what can be an impulse of this House becomes a mixture perhaps of impulse, but also of more things. It seems to me a very bad joke to say that Juncker is the right person right now to lead the European Union and to deal with tax fraud, because he has done so much, he has helped so much, you know so much..., when that tax fraud aid that Mr Juncker has done is aid that has become a drama in Europe. In the drama of unemployment, in the drama of cuts, in the drama of immigration, in endless dramas of evictions, of not caring for sick people, of lack of heating for many people... Because it has been nothing other than detracting about 10 billion euros during all these years, which these multinationals have not listed where they were due. Man, still making jokes, could also be Barcenas the director of prisons in Spain, because, as he knows the prison very well, he could be the most suitable person. Finally, let's stop joking about serious matters, and when irony is used try to make it a little thinner. Secondly, Mr Casanova, I am not going to accept this air of ethical superiority that you want to give in this rostrum, sitting on the purity side, because let us see that we are having a debate on taxation and tax fraud that has retrospective, that has turned back, that we are talking about several years in which this fraud has been raised. If we asked you about other types of fraud, which there are, and in the Basque Country, you would probably no longer be so ethical, nor would you go out to this brave rostrum, nor would you say a few things. Because extortion, the revolutionary tax and many more things are no longer linked to tax fraud, it is linked to the worst of human beings. But it also has to do with economic resources, it also has to do with blackmail and the difficulties and opportunities that have been lost in this country, in addition to human drama. Therefore, humility, much to silence (you perhaps more, besides)... Finally, when you want to get on some level of moral or ethical superiority in this House, teach your resume, teach your life and teach your doing, and then we'll see what that moral superiority is. Finally, Mrs Gorospe, you were saying and talking about a single tax for Europe. You said harmonised, equivalent... Well, it's been a long time since Gustavo Adolfo Béquer solved it when he asked about "What is poetry? Poetry is you."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u16	Thank you, Mr Price. Myst, Mr. Maneiro, is your word. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u17	Mr. Casanova, you mentioned ethics. But you do not sink into the world of ethics, you plunge into the world of esthetics, as you will to-day appear clearly and clearly, because of esthetics, you will not protect a half-rational correction made by beautiful words, either by esthetics or by ethics. That's important. You are dubious that you are at the forefront of taxation. Bildu is at the forefront of imposition, period. It is at the forefront of taxation, not at the forefront of taxation, as you say. You said, Mr. Casanova, that you see us nervous. Very quiet, Mr. Casanova. Nay, if that is what you seek, stop trying, because you will not succeed in doing so. We'll keep going, we'll still work as we've always done, we won't be nervous and you won't make us nervous. In the school sports style, apart from the benefits of the sport, we try to transmit values to them, and to get the younger ones into good values. And one of the values, it's the clean game. Clean play, that is one of the values that in school sport we intend to transmit to all girls and boys who practice sport. Besides that it is an absolutely healthy lifestyle, and if the health counselor were there, he would invite us to promote, promote and practice. But it is very important in the game to know how to place one, how to place one on the playing field. You can defend the game (the important thing is to participate and not win), but you can give it all in the game by defending your position and with clean play, working, having good strategy, knowing the opponent, being clear what the goal is, being clear how you can act. And there's another way to be able to win, which is why you have chosen, which is to hurt the opponent, is to time the opponent. You, I don't know why, are unable to win the game with the first chance, which is the one that in school sports tries to transmit to our girls and our boys. Zu arduratu zeureagaz, zuk egin zurea, zuk egin lan, eta egin eta egin eta jarraitu joko garbiagasz. But that strategy seems not to work for them, or they are unable to continue in this party, to continue in this work, defending themselves with their own resources, with their own strengths, with their own abilities, and opting for the second strategy: to harm the adversary. And that has very little ethics, of what we are teaching in schools and in other areas. One objective fact: by comparing the previous wealth tax and the tax of the great wealth that Bildu has now put, the great fortunes, truly great fortunes, which have also obtained that wealth, that fortune by inheritance, not by working, not by producing, those great fortunes, with the marginal type rebate are benefited and pay much less. And that's an objective data, a mathematical fiscal exercise, a calculation, that's all. Just like that. Again I ask you to reflect and vote for me, so that you may leave the world of esthetics aside and penetrate into the world of ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The discussion is ended, and we shall vote the original text of the proposition, which is the same as the EHG Group. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 53; white, 0; abstenations are 0.0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u19	Original text was not accepted as a result. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; Abstension, 21. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u20	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Gallaustegui, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u21	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. Confucius already said that whoever makes a mistake and does not correct it is making another much bigger mistake. And this is exactly what the People's Party Government has done in that unstoppable privatization of public services, because what at first seemed to be a personal apprehension of the former Minister of Justice, who managed to elicit the most absolute opposition to his reforms in the Administration of Justice, has been consolidated as evidence and confirmation of a misconception. The debate we are going to hold today is not new; in fact, we had it last year. Specifically, it will be exactly one year tomorrow that this Parliament, with the votes of all the parliamentary groups, less the People's Group, of course, and the abstention of UPyD, adopted a compromise amendment calling for the withdrawal of the preliminary draft that placed the carrying of the Civil Registry in the hands of the registrars and questioned the maintenance of the peace courts, and positioned itself in favour of the register as it has been so far: a public register, free of charge, and close and accessible to the citizenry. To that citizenship, ladies and gentlemen (i.e., each and every one of us), which day yes and day also marries, divorces, adopts, has children, needs a faith of life, dies or wants to inherit, and for this he goes to his registry, to his court of peace, here, to the side of his house, or requests it on the Internet, and an official gives him any of those documents or certifications he wishes, without charging him anything at all. And it will soon cease to be so, if we do not put a stop to another of so many defiances to which the Ministry of Justice has accustomed us. From the 15th of July, ladies and gentlemen, nothing at all: it will be the property registrars and merchants who take charge of the conduct of the Civil Registry. It is going to put into private hands what until now was in the hands of public officials. Because the registrars are not, ladies and gentlemen, public officials. And, although the opposite is repeated to machamartillo and as a mantra, not by much repeating a lie becomes neither truth nor what society needs, nor is it going to believe. Because the privatization of a public institution such as that of the Civil Registry, which also involves the elimination of much of the commission of the peace courts, as a measure prior to its abolition, is not supported by any of the arguments contained in the law that enshrines it in its long, far-reaching and self-complacent statement of reasons. So, as they are absolutely clear to each and every legal operator and have made it clear, clear, like clear water, this law has no justification, because all the arguments that are used in a fallacious way to defend the indefensible were those that consolidated the motivation of the 2011 law that is intended to bury. Translated into Esperanto, the socialist law, which was agreed with all groups in the parliamentary arch, already enshrined judicialization, already rationalized the structure of registration, computerization was carried out, and electronic operation was under way. Registration was also established, with a territorial attribution of the registry offices to meet the population needs and the competence structure of the autonomous communities. So of rationalization and modernization nothing at all, ladies and gentlemen. That was already a fact with the Civil Registry Act of 2011. You, the lords of the People's Party, use the concept of rationalization as if it were the panacea of good doing, of what it is necessary to do, but the concept of rationalization does not have its own content, but only in relation to the public ends that are intended and the adequacy of the means to achieve those ends. And in this the law of 2011 was very expressive, very, very expressive, by forming a Civil Registry at the service of the citizen, that what he did was to remove administrative burdens and enshrine the principle of gratuitousness. Who assures, ladies and gentlemen, that handing over to the registrars represents an advance in rationality? Who insures, ladies and gentlemen, the gratuitousness of this service? No one, absolutely no one. No one. No one. There has never been any progress, ladies and gentlemen, putting public services in private hands. Never has progress been made in removing public services from citizens. And this is what is going to happen, yes or yes, with the privatization of the registry and the abolition of the peace courts. And what, ladies and gentlemen, about the investments made so far? There is no explanation at any time, at any time, how the State will be compensated for the public investment already made in this modernization of the register. Where's the added value going? Where's the public cost going? In short, in this matter, the registrars win and the citizens lose. As for the keeping of the register within the Administration of Justice, the disappearance of our officials in charge of the register, what about those jobs?, what about those perfectly trained, trained and specialized public employees in the keeping of the register, who know perfectly well the operating tools of the service, which are (yes, these yes) public officials subject to confidentiality and security requirements in the protection of personal data? Who guarantees their continuity? Who guarantees the provision of the service subject to the principles of security and confidentiality and free of charge? It is a question of ensuring public employment, and therefore in point 3 of that compromise amendment that we have signed with Bildu we set out the following: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in the event of the definitive implementation of the model provided for in Law 128/2014 of 15 October, to maintain the commitment to support public employment, maintaining the current staff attached to the Civil Registry and proposing, where appropriate, a plan of re-adscription, in order to relocate the existing staff to other units and services of the Administration of Justice". But this would have to be one last option, ladies and gentlemen, because what we are also asking is for the government to get wet; for the government to get wet and negotiate. To negotiate the possibility of obtaining such executive powers, to promote and promote negotiations allowing management and enforcement powers to be assumed, or a necessary enabling title to ensure that the institution of the registry remains in the seat of the Administration of Justice. It is not appropriate for the Government to say that it wants competence, for the Government to say that it requires competence. It's not good that you always say, "I don't get them, it's that I fight them and the state kicks me." No, no, We must work, and that is what we are asking the Government to do with the fourth point of our compromise amendment. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to finish, because I believe that we have already talked about this matter long and laid out, and I also believe that the positions of all the groups are clear, especially as regards the defence of the register as a public service close to and free of charge. In short, it is about defending the public, it is about defending the justice of proximity, it is about defending the right of citizens to services on an equal basis. And that is all that we have in our proposal and in the compromise amendment that we have signed with Bildu, to which I hope – at least for the most part – the support of the rest of the groups. And all I have to do is thank these groups for their willingness to agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u23	Yes, thank you, President. We basically agree with the original initiative, with the arguments put forward by the Socialist spokesman, with what was initially proposed, at least in most of this initiative, and also in most of what is proposed in that transaction that he has signed with EH Bildu, as I will then explain. Indeed, we would not agree with the third point of the original initiative, or with the fourth point of the compromise finally signed. We need strong arguments to vote in favour of point 4 of the compromise. In other words, it is not enough to say that this is a competence that belongs to us because yes, but that I believe that we must argue and give convincing and compelling data to explain that, in the event that this competence could be exercised from Euskadi, it would be better exercised, it would benefit citizens as a whole. This is what I want to say in relation to point 4. Moreover, I say, in philosophy we agree with what is proposed, and so we have also argued in the Congress of Deputies. Indeed, the service provided by the Civil Registry is an essential service for the citizenry, and changing this hand management, and in particular deriving it from the Commercial Registry, can have very serious consequences, both direct and indirect, for the citizenry. UPyD has already opposed, with its amendments, the famous Omnibus Law, even submitting, together with the Socialist Group and the Group of the Plural Left, an appeal of unconstitutionality against that decree-law. This decree-law introduced certain amendments that affect the Civil Registry. First, it provides for an extension of the entry into force of Law 20/2011 of 21 July of the Civil Registry until 15 July 2015. Another of the most relevant changes is the proposed amendment to the additional provision vigèmeprimea, which maintains that the Civil Registry service will continue to be free of charge, but no economic memory is presented to show how this gratuity can be maintained. And, on the other hand, the twenty-third provision speaks of tariffs. It appears that the service will be paid for the tariffs resulting from the provision of the service by the Commercial Registry. That is to say, rather than gradually, which is how this service is currently costed, it will be done by means of a cross-subsidy, which, in addition to being much less transparent, is a new burden on the growth of companies, since it appears that they will ultimately have to pay for the service provided by the Civil Registry and the costs that may arise from it. On 22 July 2011, the aforementioned Law 20/2011 of 21 July of the Civil Registry was published in the State Official Gazette, the final provision of which stipulated a statutory three-year holiday period. This legal text provides for the establishment of one Central Civil Registry Office and one General Civil Registry Office in each Autonomous Community, and another for every 500,000 inhabitants. In other words, there is an organization that we consider to be far from the citizens. Not only will the number of offices of the Civil Registry be reduced, which could be reasonable if the efficiency of the service were maintained and access to citizenship guaranteed, but also, with the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, the delivery of the Civil Registry to the registerrs of the property is proposed. In response to a question from UPyD at the Congress, the Government of Spain replied that the valuable human resources now allocated to tasks specific to civil registrations will be devoted to other tasks in which the justice system suffers from significant delays and lack of resources. In our view, this proposal does not make any sense either. The persons in charge of the Civil Registry must be the professionals of the Civil Registry who have accredited sufficient capacity to carry out this work, and to renounce this would mean the loss of a qualified human capital with great experience, which has been correctly performing that function. In addition, the additional provision 20 could affect the right to privacy, protected by the first title of the Spanish Constitution. The right to privacy of citizens could be violated by handing over personal data to individuals, who are not officials of the State, the conduct of the Civil Registry, which includes the management of personal data. On the other hand, the presence of offices of the Commercial Registry would only be guaranteed in the provincial capitals, thus causing great inconvenience to a large part of the population living away from the capitals. Although we are talking about the maintenance of gratuity, the non-variance in cost, it seems that citizens will have to pay tariffs to the registrars, who run an entirely private business benefiting from a monopoly with legal basis given by the State, being an exception throughout Europe, where the registration of property and merchandise is carried out by staff of the Administration with a public salary, as had been done so far in Spain. Another serious consequence is that the disappearance of the civil registry public service is the first step towards their disappearance in those localities with peace courts and groups of peace court secretariats by judicial officials. Peace courts are, in our view, an indispensable element in ensuring proximity justice. The main consequence of the privatization of the Civil Registry is the creation of a business for the benefit of a few. Without an apparent real need, the provision of a service is modified and can therefore cause genuinely negative consequences for the citizenry. Therefore, and in conclusion, we are in favour of the initiative, although we consider point 3 of the original initiative to be unnecessary or point 4 of the amendment finally adopted. We believe that it should be studied, of course within the framework of the Spanish Constitution, and put forward strong arguments to support this proposal. That is to say, that we are shown with data and arguments that the transfer of this competence would bring benefits to the whole citizenry. We do not see it, and therefore we cannot vote in favour of this point 4. We have more or less recent examples – which, by the way, we will then discuss with the inspectors – where, after the transfer has taken place, the result has been very detrimental to the citizens as a whole. Therefore, transfer of competences because yes, no. We don't share it and we don't see it. I say that, moreover, we agree with the philosophy of this initiative and with what is finally proposed. The truth is that yesterday, in full control of the Congress of Deputies, the Socialist Group asked the minister a question about this issue, and the truth is that the minister strongly and absolutely denied that the government had any intention of privatizing the Civil Registry. With this we no longer know exactly what is intended, or if what is ultimately intended is to deceive the whole citizenry, because the fact is that just a few hours later different unions, the unions of Justice, accused the minister of lying about the privatization of the Civil Registry, and accused the minister of lying about some kind of agreement with the union organizations on the staffing after privatization. In any case, we say that we are clearly against the privatization of public services, and in particular the privatization of this public service that we are debating today. And, therefore, we generally agree with what is proposed here and what is defended here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u24	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. As long as we bring back the subject of the Civil Root, we have also known other steps to privatize the Civil Root. The Decree Law of King 8/2014, and the Act of 18/2014, declared that the Civil Root Act of 20/2011 would change in these terms: "Para su adecaución a la illevanza del Registro Civil por los restradors de la propiedad y mecantiles." It can't be clearer. On the 15th of June this year, and in order to make these arrangements, a promise of February 5th produces a mixed committee composed of the government and the Collectors, in order to direct this process of privatization. For those who have the greatest interest to be placed in the hands of the Romans, the registerers, take part in the redemption of this legal change. I mean, those who are going to take this business on a monopoly report on the conditions they're going to receive it. This is ridiculous. They're getting more and more clear about the economic complications of this. An already active public service, with all its technical resources, is favorable to the private interests of a few. These public investments are going to business with some private people. It'll have to be paid for these services. And who's going to do it? The state does not seem to be rejected, but the registerers who will take service and handle it don't seem logical at all. So the last and only opportunity: The people will have to pay. They've paid for the organic structure of the record, which is now happening, and now they'll pay for every service by putting on a kind of recapitulation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I believe it has become clear how they have operated. They voted in favour of the Civil Registration Act of 2011, and before it even came into force contradict its stipulations, camouflage the operation into additional provisions of other laws dealing with measures of growth, competitiveness and effectiveness. I mean, through the back door. That is, with absolute nightiness and lightness. They could not bring problems in the application of that law, which will pass to posterity in perpetual vacatio legis, leaving in evidence the spurious interests of those you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, want to cover through this reform. To convert a public service into a prebenda, which only favors a few, to subject to tariff certain formalities that are mandatory, for more glory of a privileged minority. Those are the bases for privatizing the Civil Registry. To stand against it, to repair this disaster, we have covered all the ways. We've tried to argue and even prolong our proposals. We've come to agreements and made some kind of statements. But apart from the statement, we even proposed to take steps. Such was the demand of a great majority of this legislature. So when we started that discussion, we were on time. It's already too much time for us today. I have a feeling that we could not draw the path to make these expressions effective. What management should we have made about these decisions? What strategy was it supposed to go on? We weren't effective. We had our goals clear, but we didn't draw an efficient road to get it. We have also disputed what these roads should be, whether we should ask for the rights or not. We agreed at first, but then the road was very complicated, it was very long. We discussed that it might perhaps be possible to acquire the executive power, because some communities have obtained it, and we discussed that this executive power is obtained by the States of Katalunia, Aragon, and Andalucia; and that no one imagined that this would be a certain numulus coussus, that is, that the rest of the community would be able to acquire this competition. But we don't even deal with it. We discussed whether we were going to appeal to the law of 20/2011, that is to say, to the time at which the Civil Record was in the courts, or whether it was necessary to be in public administration, but not one way or the other, we have not discussed it. To conclude, we said that our claim should be addressed to the Minister or to the Government. I don't even know if that's done. On October 29th, Mr. Erkoa made an announcement on the committee and told us that a week later, on November 6th, you'd be able to bring the subject back to a sectorial meeting. I guess it wasn't very effective, because otherwise we'd have known it. We didn't use the effective path. We've had options, but I don't think we've been through any of them. I have a full sense of fracasso, because we wanted it, but I can't. That's our destiny. On the 15th of July, the Act of Decret, King 8/14, will enter, and it already seems that we have lost all hope. We sit in the cantence, in the fallatism, in depression. We're going to try to save some things, but that's all. Public officials want to save their work as logical. The other day, President of the Main Court of Justice, Juan Ibara, plainly told us the situation in which these officials are to be found in the civil Don Calogero. Decía el señor Juan Ibaro: "Los funnaris del Registro Civil están concursando como locos." "Quire's i a foeros fates, porque tibien mido de el que in están occupando sea suprimido." It's understandable. The situation is that in front of this shipwreck they are saying "salvese quien pueda." The workers follow their motivations and their claims. The unions continue to present the motives, even in this case. We make goodwill statements, but I feel we don't act fully efficient. As I said, we fell into impotence, fatalism, and despotism. They have not yet suffered the reforms, the consequences of this change, but will soon be done. For the first son was registered in the council, in the court of peace, in a free office, and in his capital the second son should be registered to the capital in order to be registered, and they must pay for that tramite which is necessary. It is a pity that public data will be placed in private hands, that a public service will be placed in private hands, and that public money will be placed in private hands. That's what we're going to do, and we're going to report it again today, through this transaction we've signed between PSE and EH Collector. I want to thank Mrs. Gallaustegui too. And we ask for four things: "Spension de los efectos de sentia, reclamación nuevamente de el Registro Civil setainga sumagdo aquaquido, holdento de la mollilla actual, y, tercero, traspaso ysunción de las compencias." I'm not so worried about what terms we're proposing. And, Mr Maneiro, it is not that we have a burning, in a way, to ask for competences because the problem is not whether it would be managed better or worse. The problem is whether or not you can. In that we are, because I am absolutely convinced that it will be better managed if we can manage it as it is today, and not in view of the prospects that are being put at our disposal. The problem is not whether better or worse, the problem is whether we can do it or not. And it gives me the feeling that, in the face of this, crossing arms is the worst of options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Zurrill, who represents the eulogy team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. I won't repeat the importance of civil record. I believe that the spokesmen of the legislatures who have spoken before me have already remarked their benefits and potentialities, both at this meeting and on the 20th of February last year. For our group, the first very important aspect on which we have to focus, in which, for this reason, it seems that we initially and conceptually agree all parliamentary groups, is that the institution of the Civil Registry must remain public and free. Even Royal Decree-Law 8/2014 – to which we will then refer – in its additional provision 21 determines that the service will be free. Now, without determining how or at the expense of whom. Therefore, new uncertainties are re-created. That said, and after Law 20/2011 of 21 July, which proposed the de-jurisdictionalization of the Civil Registry, understood as coming out of the jurisdictional sphere but not from the judicial sphere, and at the same time did not designate who would take charge of its conduct, and after the statutory vacancy of three years established, the Royal Decree-Law 8/20114 and its subsequent processing as a draft law, Law 18/2014 of 15 October, establishes that the registrars of the property and merchants will be in charge of its conduct, after a long period of great uncertainty and many rumors, as Mrs. Llanos said in the middle of last year. Here is confirmed that "when the river sounds"... In this case it sounded, more like. Faced with this, we see drawbacks. Some have mentioned, but for us the main ones are, first of all, the inconveniences that will be caused to citizens, since we start from a situation in which we have the Civil Registry in the courts of first instance and in 238 peace courts, and we are going to move to a situation in which there are no 238 commercial registerrs. By setting the example that Mrs Otadui set in the previous plenary session, in Bizkaia there are twenty-one registerrs of the property, and thirteen of them are in Bilbao. We therefore oblige citizens to travel for these basic procedures. Secondly, we are also concerned about the possible disappearance of the peace courts. We do not know yet, within these uncertainties, but it is clear that if this comes into force, they will be left empty of functions and, therefore, away from the citizens of the Administration of Justice. And we are also concerned about the unavailability of the Department of Justice of the Basque Government on the personal and material means to which it will give rise. Finally, we are also concerned about the guarantee of the privacy of registered data, as employees of property and business registers are not public officials. What is our approach in this regard? For, as we have been maintaining, our approach, which is that the Basque Government is defending and claiming, is that the Civil Registry should be kept in the judicial but judicial sphere, and that its conduct should be entrusted to the judicial secretaries, whose transfer has been repeatedly claimed. Or, failing that, if this transfer is not to be made, it is managed by the management bodies of the Administration of Justice, which both are not judicial bodies, do not exercise the jurisdictional function of judging and executing the court, but are bodies that carry out their functions in the field of the Administration of Justice. We understand that only in this way will we continue to have competence in this matter and will be able to equip ourselves with the means. For us the most appropriate formula in order to guarantee the provision of a public and free service is to reside the conduct of the Civil Registry within the judicial sphere, since the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has competence in the provision of personal and material means to the Administration of Justice in accordance with the terms set out in Judgment 56/90 of the Constitutional Court. And that is why in our amendment to the whole we stated in the second point that "it urges the Basque Government to continue to request, as it has been doing so far, that the Civil Registry be kept in the judicial sphere". On the issue of competition, the proposal for a law adopted on 20 February last year at the request of the Socialist Group called on the Basque Government to assume executive powers in the field of civil registration, in accordance with the provisions of Law 20/2011. After Mr Erkoreka's appearance on 29 October, it became clear to us, at least for us, that matter. Even our spokesman acknowledged that the approved GNP was not very successful. And here we've been talking about Confucius, in some other case we've been talking about "constumaz"... We know how to recognize our mistakes, and we therefore believe that it was quite clear. But today, the same thing is being re-emphasized in the transactional signed by the Socialist Party and EH Bildu. Until Law 20/2011 there were no problems in this area. As already mentioned, a three-year legal holiday was established, and there was a change of government in Madrid and a change of approach, and previously with great uncertainty about it. Act No. 20/2011 provided that the autonomous communities that had it in their statutes of autonomy, in accordance with their statutes of autonomy and laws, would assume jurisdiction over civil registration. Therefore, and as it became clear at the hearing, according to this law there were three groups of autonomous communities: those with assigned competences in the field of justice and civil registry executives (which are four: Catalonia, Aragon, Andalusia and Extremadura, although the latter does not yet have the transfers of means); those with assigned competences in the field of justice but not in the field of civil registry, such as Euskadi, and those with no assigned competences in either of these two subjects. It was alleged in that NLP that Law 20/2011 could serve as an enabling title to assume this new competence. Today, too, there is a reference, or reference in the attempts to compromise, to an enabling title, and it has been mentioned here, in order to obtain this transfer of the executive matter of Civil Registry. In this regard, the legal reports requested by the Socialist Government following the publication in the Official Gazette in 2011 on this matter are clear. It is therefore clear that it is impossible to directly engage competition through this ordinary law of the State. And, therefore, the two remaining options to assume the executive competence of the Civil Registry would be statutory reform, which implies... And for this particular issue at present, and in this sense, and given its insistence on the assumption of competence, hence our final point in the amendment of the whole, in which we believe that a presentation of self-government is being developed in this House, which, although it is for other things, if we really believe that this matter is important, initiatives could be put forward in this regard. We are clear what our final desire as nationalists would be. We would like to see a Basque judicial system coming out of that self-government paper, but let each one put in that paper what he understands about statutory reform. And the second alternative would be an organic law of transfer or delegation of article 150.2 of the Spanish Constitution, by which the competence remains of the State and is a delegation, a graceful concession of the State, which the State can take away from you and give it to you at any time. And now, being aware of the Spanish Government, with the absolute majority of the People's Party, I think it is also a complicated matter, if not impossible. And in spite of everything, however, and in these both cases in a statutory way, even though we did a statutory reform or the People's Government through 150.2 granted that transfer, with the model finally proposed by the Spanish Government will give the same. Both those with executive powers in the field of civil registration and those not – which is our case – will have no function in the field of registration, except to store the books of the registry once their computer registration is carried out, to their electronic registration system. So the government is certain that it wants competences, that they serve with a view to achieving greater self-government, that is obvious, but it wants to assume competences that serve something, that serve to improve the living conditions and the interests of our citizens, not a competition that serves no purpose at all. The Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, approved as a matter of urgency by the Congress of Deputies on August 4, 2014 and subsequently processed as a bill on October 15, destroys with all this, with all this approach. We have already said: for the autonomous communities, with executive or non-executive powers, and for those with civil registration matters, executive competence is reduced with respect to the Civil Registry, as the adviser said in his appearance, to mere storekeepers of the register books. We believed, as we have said, that it was clear at the hearing on 29 October, in which Bildu demanded, as he does here today, "a strategy to overcome the adverse circumstances", he said, and it was very clear what the strategy of the Basque Government is, which is very clear and it is in which we believe that we must follow: the only way in which the powers that are currently held with regard to the Civil Registry can be retained is by de-judicializing it but keeping it within the judicial sphere, without depending on the judges. This would allow us to continue to exercise the powers that have so far been exercised – limited, it is also true – within the Administration of Justice regarding the Civil Registry. Since I will not have time now, in the second round I reserve myself for the steps – said Mr Arzuaga that EH Bildu urged to take steps – and, well, we will tell him what steps have been taken, who knows them, and what alternatives have been put forward in that committee. As I say, in the second round, because I don't have time. And finally, if this is done, if this model ends up being implemented, what we ask the Basque Government to do is to maintain its commitment to the maintenance of public employment attached to the Civil Registry, as it has been repeatedly demonstrating so far (meeting with representatives, with all trade union representatives, on 17 July, subsequent institutional declaration, appearance on 29 October), putting forward, in its case and at the moment, a plan of re-allocation in order to relocate the existing troops to other units and service of the Administration of Justice. Organikoak plant keeping egingo say, ez say beat murriztuk, karrera-functionioak eta langile interinoak. With regard to what Mrs Gallastegui said that the compromise reached by EH Bildu and the Socialist Party hopes that she will have the support of the rest of the groups, in the part which we are responsible for, I would also like to mention that something has also been negotiated, and that, in fact, there are points on which we have had sex, but there is one on which we have not agreed, which is the point of taking over the competences, which are not going to serve us for anything, and we, in view of their insistence, would refer it to the presentation of self-government. But in the first point we have included not only the Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, but also the law, which really validates the decree-law, and we have included urging the Government to commit to the sustainability of public employment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Potion Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Indeed, Mrs Gallastegui, we are once again discussing in this House the matter of the Civil Registry; we are again discussing a matter that is currently under discussion in the Congress of Deputies, in a further demonstration by some groups of turning this Parliament into the second instance of the Lower House. What they don't get there, they bring him here to discuss. I don't know, it's just like those moral victories are comforting, but where you really decide this issue is in Congress. In the presentation of his proposal he makes a number of statements with which we cannot agree at all, such as that grandiose statement that the People's Party leaves the Civil Registry in private hands; the issue of the peace courts and the judicial demarcations with this debate is remixed – and other groups have also done so – with this debate; reference is made to the loss of jobs, the elimination of the free character, the lack of security in data protection, the making available in private hands of public money... And we don't understand very well about private hands when it comes to the issue of whether or not the registrars are public officials. The truth is that on this subject, in a paragraph of your presentation, of your justification, you acknowledge, Mrs Gallastegui, that the Registrars are public officials, so that in the next paragraph they may be denied that character. I have already told you, one is accustomed to the change of opinion of the socialists, what happens is that this one is surprised by the meteoric, because from one paragraph to another it is really surprising. Some of the issues raised in this proposal that have been highlighted here have been rebutted by the Minister of Justice himself in the Congress of Deputies in December last year during the debate on the draft law on administrative reform measures in the field of the Administration of Justice and Civil Registry. And on the occasion of that debate, as I said, Mr Catalá disassembled some of the statements that you make here as dictating truths. As has been said here, it is true that the Civil Registration Act dates back to 1957, and this involved administrative modes and technological systems of that time, which made it necessary to change them. And that's why in 2011, and with a broad consensus, the Civil Registration Act is amended. One of the allegations made is that what the People's Party Government claims is a counter-reform of that 2011 law. Not at all. What the Government seeks from a pragmatic vision, from a possible vision, from a realistic vision, is precisely the implementation of that Civil Registry Act of 2011 and that it improves and modernises the service, which achieves precisely the objectives of that Act. Because the minister himself showed in the Congress that in the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary 50% of the complaints and complaints received for the operation of judges and courts relate to the functioning of the Civil Registry, the current functioning, waiting times and public service hours. And for this reason the minister himself recognized the goodness of the 2011 law, in attempting through this law to respond to much of the problems through an in-depth modification that was more in keeping with the current social, political and technological reality. And, therefore, that law – and this is what the People's Party Government intends to continue – designed a single civil registry for all of Spain, computerised, accessible and that could be consulted by other public administrations, and in which the seats could be signed electronically by the officials, and that the section system should be left to become a registry of persons identified with a personal code. It is true that this law had a legal vacation until last year 2014. The problem is that, as in so many other laws made by the socialist government, the law was made, and then the money God would already provide. But God should not have provided, and then he had no financial memory, no resources... With which all that had to be put in place, Mrs Gallastegui, and that is the problem faced by the government, and that is why it has decided that the vacatio legis will go until July 15, 2015. That law to which I referred, that bill which was submitted in December, establishes the public and free nature, as Mr Zorrilla has said, of the benefits of the Civil Registry, both for citizens and for public administrations. That same law is true that it says that conduct will be the responsibility of commercial registrars, but that does not mean, it does not pose a threat to the employment of public officials. Moreover, the minister himself has worked with the trade unions to ensure that both those officials with a place of office and interim officials retain their posts, by reorganizing and reassigning staff to other bodies of the Administration of Justice. The aim of Law 18/2014 is to quantify, refine and make possible all the above-mentioned requirements. And it is not a counter-reform, however much it insists, but to develop the law in force. A law that removed from the jurisdictional sphere the Civil Registry, which involved a judicialization of the service, although some now do not see it so clearly, and that it was officials other than those of the Judiciary who kept the registry. It is true that at first it was intended to be a corporation governed by public law and finally this idea has been abandoned, and will be replaced by an electronic platform made available to the Ministry of Justice by the College of Registrars. By the way, the Ministry of Justice and the College of Registrars have already met precisely to set this in motion. The structure of this law is that of central offices in the provincial capitals, in the islands and in the populations of more than 100,000 inhabitants, and as collaborating offices the consular offices and offices of the property registers and the courts of peace, which do not disappear, because the minister himself has undertaken that the courts of peace will not disappear. I understand that sometimes, well, then, the reliability of some leaders, from their own experience, does not lend credence to the words of a minister, but believe me that he has committed himself and that in some groups some words are more reliable than in others. And what is intended is a structure with total permeability and that reaches all citizens, a new Civil Registry, and under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice, which will not fail to supervise and will not become a service that is not public. And it's not going to have any costs, either for the state or for the citizens. And by law, as I say, its free character is guaranteed. One of the issues on which we insist... As you said, Mrs Gallastegui, in allusion to what you yourself said, it is, by force of repeating a falsehood, to see if this ends up becoming true, but no. No, no, And one of the things that becomes apparent over and over again is that being carried away by the registrars is going to involve the privatization of the service. No, it has nothing to do with it! That has nothing to do with it! Whether or not the public nature of the service depends on whether or not the registrars carry it! And also, no matter how much you say no, that we no longer know whether or not, depending on, as I have said, that, without a solution of continuity between one paragraph and another, it gives you the character of a public official and then takes it away from you, but I will tell you that according to section 274 of the Mortgage Law the registrars are public officials for all legal purposes. They're civil servants. It will therefore be public officials responsible for carrying out the Civil Registry, under the supervision, as I say, of the Ministry of Justice, which will in any case exercise disciplinary authority. So, let's see if it's clear. Mr. Catalá doesn't believe him, let's see if I'm any luckier. It shall be a free civil registry carried out by public officials, supervised and controlled by the public authorities. It is also true that when this law has been processed (and, if not, you go to the Official Gazette of the Congress of Deputies) the Government has committed itself to dialogue, to agreement, to make amendments and to make adjustments, and this has led to some groups not to make a full amendment, precisely because, following this offer to dialogue, they are going to make amendments to it. It is requested in your proposal, Mrs Gallastegui, that the Basque Government take a stand against the reform of the Civil Registry. Look, if the Basque Government has already opposed it! But you've already opposed the Civil Registry and everything. If you don't have to tell her, Mrs. Gallastegui! If the Basque Government opposes by system! If Mr Erkoreka's Tuesdays are continuous lamentations against the Government of Spain, continuous lamentations, with the Civil Registry and with the issues that are not the Civil Registry. That is what happens Tuesday after Tuesday, which could have saved that request, because Mr Erkoreka was going to do it for himself. If you've already put it on... As Mr Zorrilla has said, we already know the position, which Mr Erkoreka has also spoken to Mr Zorrilla here today, because he has mimetically repeated what Mr Erkoreka told us in committee. Mimetically. What I believe is that this has to be discussed where it has to be discussed, which is in the Congress of Deputies, where the contributions that have to be made have to be made. And I no longer know whether in some of the manifestations that are established in the law, in a legal precept, which is the free and public nature of the service, then, I do not know if they will also require a endorsement. Well, if now, for the enforcement of the laws, they're also going to demand endorsements, so listen, come up with the formula to demand that endorsement. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u30	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answering round, Mrs. Gallastegui, the Basque Socialist, represents the group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u31	Thank you, President. Mr. Maneiro, in two words. Indeed, as the representative of the PNV, of the Nationalist Group, has said, the possibility is a statutory reform, or an organic law of transfer or delegation. But that is not a graceful concession, as the nationalist representative says; that is a matter of negotiation. And that's what we're asking the government to negotiate. Because, as you already know, once within the jurisdictional sphere there is a competence, either by delegation law or within the statutory reform itself, that competence over that particular matter, which the Constitution and Statute of Autonomy establish at the end, makes it constituted as a constitutional block, and any law of lower rank than any of them, in this case an ordinary law, would be unconstitutional if it removed the executive powers of the Civil Registry of the community, in this case of the Basque Autonomous Community. That's where I think it's clear. At the end of the matter is to achieve greater self-government by different means, but ultimately the position that we put forward is that it is negotiation, in this case with the Government of Spain (not a graceful concession, but negotiation), which is going to make Euskadi have greater self-government always. Well, Mrs. Llanos, moral victories indeed comfort, but pride always leaves a bitter taste, and that is why we must flee many times from the pride that you and I have already spoken of more than once. And they are indeed comforting, and that is why we have also talked about prevention, foresight and provision. And when we talked about prevention, it's because we knew perfectly well that this was going to happen, exactly as it happened with the fees, which, by the way, were going to be to cover free justice and they're neither expected nor expected. And not only are they neither expected, but it is clearly said that "Uy!, it is that we had no obligation, and it is also that there is no legal budgetary obligation to apply the collection to a given concept, there is no allocation of the income collected by the fee." Listen, a little bit of respect, because here, as active and passive, we are being told things that the People's Party never meets. I don't know if I'm going to be big enough: the People's Party privatizes everything, not just the Civil Registry. Almost everything. Let's see, civil servants. They're not public officials. You know perfectly well that section 247 of the Mortgage Act 1946 (i.e. eleven years before the Civil Registry Act) established this recognition solely and exclusively for the purposes of respect, let's say. There are currently multiple judgments from the European Community, which you know, which strictly say that the Registrars are not public officials: they charge tariffs, they organize their... I mean, they charge like an autonomous, let's say. Another thing is that they have to oppose, but that is another matter. You said that the ministry had worked to try, in the end, to re-adscribe the troops that are going to leave the register. That's not what the unions say. I don't know which unions the minister will have talked to, but that's not what the unions say. Specifically, he was called a liar yesterday, saying that he had not reached any agreement with any of the trade union organizations regarding the staffing after privatization. There are things that it is difficult to say in a rostrum, because the words are carried by the wind, but the paper sometimes takes everything, and one is responsible for what he says, and especially what he does after saying. Because to date the Ministry of Justice has said as active and passive that it will not charge anything for the records; it also said that it would pay free justice with court fees. It is not the word, but the facts that have to lead, in reality, to believe. And not only to believe, it is not a matter of making an act of faith, but to support... , it is not the word, to support, is to manifest the reality that these things are right, when there is indeed behind a justification, a motivation. If I were a much less educated person than I am, I could say what are the reasonings or the spurious conditions or motivations behind giving, delivering, putting in the hands of a certain group of self-employed, in short, professionals, the bearing of a public register whose complaints are not 80%, much less. In Euskadi, and in most of the rest of Spain, complaints do not reach 9 %, as has been established in the records of the courts themselves. So...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u32	Time to finish, Mrs. Gallastegui.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u33	Yeah, I'm finishing up, president. We must say things as they are, Mrs Llanos, because the good thing is that time passes, and in the end things are seen, and, in the meantime, along the way, without these prevention, foresight and provisioning activities, what we are doing is losing de-re-chos. Losing rights, losing public services. Thank you very much for your kindness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u35	Only to say that we wanted to share, and we do share, the general reflections that Mrs Gallastegui has made, which is raised in the first three points of this compromise amendment, but we still do not receive strong and clear arguments for voting in favour of point 4 of the compromise, where it is proposed that the Basque Government be urged to promote and promote negotiations for the transfer and assumption of management and enforcement powers. In this sense, we find it more reasonable what the Basque Nationalist group proposed, that this matter could be discussed in the self-government presentation, and not only in the self-government presentation, but also in the context of a possible constitutional reform. We do not agree with what is usually said, what is said, which is that the more self-government, the better. We don't agree with that. Depends. There are certain competences that must be in Basque, in the Basque Government, others must be in the municipalities, others must be in the Spanish Government, and others must be in Europe. That is our approach. And we have not received any compelling arguments, therefore, to consider it reasonable that the Government of Spain be asked to transfer that competence, or that it be proposed to negotiate with the Government of Spain for the transfer of that competence. We are not in favour of saying that the more they govern themselves the better. Depends on what skills. And, therefore, we would not vote in favour of that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u37	Thank you. Let me give you an answer. Mrs Llanos, do not treat us as ignorant, so that we avoid doing the same. You know what the nature of the business registrar or property is. It is public access, of course, to act as a private monopoly, charging tariffs on a specific service. Unlike public access and public service that the staff member would perform. I will give you a fact that you certainly know, and that is that for Social Security commercial and property registrars have the consideration either of self-employed or self-employed, i.e. of entrepreneurs, and not of civil servants, as it seems to be the nature that you defend. It tells us it has no cost. This service has to be financed – and I have commented earlier – by one of the three possibilities: either on the part of the State; or on the part of the registrars, who have indeed mentioned this risk, this possibility; or on the part of the citizens. What is impossible is that it has no cost. It gives me the impression that with your explanation you even want to set the trap before you make the law. I am not comforted, Mrs Llanos, by the moral victory that we are going to achieve today, because, as I say, what this is drawing is that in this Parliament there is an aspiration that clashes with an imposition that will again be perpetrated in Madrid. And that's why I'm telling you that I don't feel comforted, it doesn't seem like a moral victory, because it's coming to visualize again, to verify that circumstance. Mr Zorrilla – and I may take this opportunity to reply to Mr Maneiro – for us this point 4, in the way I have to interpret it at least, is not a mere requirement of competition. I make a wide reading to say that we certainly have to ask for the Civil Registry to remain within the current parameters, and for that the only possibility that I can think of is that we can manage it from right here. I'm waiting for the strategy that Mr. Zorrilla is going to explain to me, but I'm going to tell you what the drawing is. Competence, yes or no? No, no, Enabling title via 20/2011, yes or no? Answer, no. Funny delegation, yes or no? Answer, no. Delegation to the municipalities (it is also an approach made by the Basque Nationalist Party), yes or no? Result, no. Rejuvenation of what's already de juridicized, which sounds a little bit... and which sounds even more like a rabbit just pulled out of the joke. Is this the way you... i.e. back to the situation before Law 20/2012? Try it! Try it! Now you're gonna explain it to me. I'm told statutory reform, either. When you propose that you move to the self-government paper, then I do not know if there is any prospect that this can be put into practice, but perhaps that amendment that you are introducing, rather than telling me about the strategy that you intend to implement to defend the Civil Registry, tells me more about the vision that you have of the self-government paper. I think that parking it there, in the self-government presentation, the feeling I have is that there is no future given to an issue that has an expiry date, and that you know it is July 15th. I'm telling you, I hope you'll explain the strategy to me, because that's what I've been demanding from the beginning. It was precisely the will with which I made the request for the Councillor to appear, and I hope you will explain to me what steps you are willing to take. Now, if what comes to explain to me is the relationship of all those circumstances in which the minister has already been questioned by the counselor, it seems to me that the effort you are making is going to be thin. I do not deny the Councillor's affection: 10 June 2013, meeting with Gallardón, reiterated in the working group of 4 July 2013 while the Governing Council drafted the royal decree-law; allegations presented before the bill; proposed amendments, which are even assumed by the government, amendments proposed by the Basque Nationalist group in the processing of the royal decree in the Congress of Madrid; submit a proposal together with the unions, which in the end seems to be unsubstantiated. Finally, at that last sectoral meeting with the minister it seems that the case is being reassigned to him, but I see again that there is no kind of effectiveness. And that's the question: I don't deny teson, but I do deny effectiveness. I'm going to end up making a little self-amendment on point 3, because it's true that we're asking that the public employment of the disappearance... Already assuming that the disappearance of the Civil Registry is going to take place, then, what we do is we cling to the fact that at least that public employment is not destroyed, trying to reposition those people perhaps in the new legal office or in other positions. It's a way to lose public employment. In other words, these people will be relocated to other jobs that could have arisen and thus will not arise. This is precisely the situation in which we find ourselves, which I believe is of sufficient gravity to enable us to do something else, perhaps.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u38	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Zurrill, the Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u39	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, as far as Mrs. Llanos is concerned, I don't know if I have mimeically reproduced what Mr. Counselor has said. I think I said at the beginning of my presentation that we were present, and that it was very clear and there is no other explanation, and I wanted to make it clear, because it seems that others had not made it clear. And also because the Councilman deserves all the credibility and the data he has put forward are confirmed by facts. And, hilariously, you said that the minister said that the peace courts would not be abolished. We're talking about credibility. I remember what he said on February 20, 2014, he said: "Then news and rumors, Mrs. Gallastegui, there are; some like the last one that appeared and assumed that it was going to be the recorders of the property that carried it. They were denied by the ministry itself instantly, but it doesn't matter if you say one thing and from the ministry you refuse." Well, yes, it seems that the facts say that we have to be very careful about that credibility. Regarding EH Bildu, who was talking about taking steps... Well, I won't repeat it. I was going to repeat to him what Mr Arzuaga has so briefly and quickly put forward in his last speech, what has been the approach of the Government and that thesis demonstrated with facts, that written proposal to the ministry, the allegations... Well, like I said, I'm not gonna repeat it. And you say that what you want are facts, facts found that that teson results. We're still waiting for EH Bildu to tell us how. If you have a magic wand you can get how to... Enabling title which one? The Royal Decree 20/2011? We already said that that one could... , "could" not, in fact it is obvious that it would be unconstitutional. What are the alternatives? We don't know him anymore. The ministry tells us, you don't have to tell us. But say how. Just as you have, in that ingenuity that you usually attribute to the counselor, just as you have that magic wand, that ability to get some formula that allows the Civil Registry to continue to function as it has so far. In that committee on 29 October, and in that search for the strategy Mr Arzuaga was demanding, I think it was very clear what alternatives were available in the current legal framework. An appeal of unconstitutionality, which you, EH Bildu, sued the Spanish Constitutional Court, the first option that was raised, and has already made clear to you the adviser that is a path that is not worth exploring. Why? Because the royal decree-law has subsequently been ratified as a law, with which the so-called enabler, the enabling factual budget of the extraordinary and urgent need is saved legally. And on the other hand, as far as matter is concerned, the same thing. And there's an obvious fact. In Catalonia they have jurisdiction over justice and executive matters of the Civil Registry, and Catalonia has not brought an action for unconstitutionality. We will present it without being competent in this matter. He also spoke of a common front with other autonomous communities against the Spanish Government. Well, I don't know if there, sinning naively, the counselor already told him that there is an important fact to take into account: we are talking about autonomous communities of the Spanish State, where many of those autonomous communities (there are 17), many of them are governed by the People's Party. Which as an alternative is worth, but as a result zero. The other strategy that was also put on the table and that, in their efforts to take over executive powers, although it has been shown that it will serve no purpose, they continued to insist on this takeover of powers by enabling title, by transfer, by statutory reform... I do not know if EH Bildu is in favour of making a statutory reform to include, to request the executive matter of the Civil Registry. You haven't told us, Mr. Arzuaga. I wish you'd told us. I haven't had time on the first occasion to ask, but, well, that answer could give us. The self-government paper. We are clear, and I think I have said so, that it is not for this particular issue. It is not for this particular issue. And I think I've anticipated our vision in this matter before: our intention as the Basque Nationalist Party would be to have a Basque judicial system. I think we can even share that. Then don't twitch. We have raised this issue as we are working on a self-government paper in which, well, the validity and current status of the Statute is being analysed in the process of arriving at a new political status. If it's so important to you, we're going to work there, which is where it has room. We are not going to start a statutory reform on the issue of self-government. And with regard to funny or not funny law, not funny organic law, so, honestly I think it's also wasting time. We therefore continue to insist that the best strategy, which is truly effective, is for the Civil Registry to remain attached to the judiciary. This is the best way to retain the functions that we currently maintain on the Civil Registry,l and this is compatible with Law 20/2011, although we understand that it is called to change. So, we don't want to go back to what. We want to go back to Law 20/2011, which was adopted by consensus, where we understood and understood that the Civil Registry was de-judicialized, but within the judicial sphere. Finally, and I conclude, our group is in favour of a public and free civil registry within the judicial sphere, of the Administration of Justice, not carried by property and commercial registrars. And in the event that the proposed model ends up being implemented, we make it very clear or we want that commitment, as has already been said, to be made clear with the support of public employment. It is important to create employment, but more important it is to maintain the existing one, and also, in the line that the President of the High Court of Justice said, not to generate that uncertainty and uncertainty that is being generated in that staff, with the negative impact that it can have on the justice system. Since we have reached a compromise – not signed, because it has not been completed – with the proposer in the first three points, we would ask for the point vote, and the first, second and third points will count on our vote in favour and in the fourth we will vote against, because we understand that this transfer is not going to serve us at all at the moment. I would like to make it clear that we will vote against this point, but for different reasons than those expressed by Mr Maneiro. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. In conclusion, Mrs. Llanos, the ex-consul of the Basque Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gallastegui, whether by debate I can debate anything, whether or not at the executive end what is decided here, because it corresponds to another chamber, as in this case is the Congress of Deputies! If we can also discuss that there are no wars in the world, which, come on, I tell you, I'm going out to this rostrum to discuss it! What happens is that real effectiveness, beyond, as I said, of moral victory and of becoming a second instance of the Congress of Deputies, that what is not earned there, where it really has effectiveness, is earned here through moral victory... Well, if it's worth it to you, I'm delighted, because you also know that I appreciate you, so if you're happy, I'm delighted. But, now, the effectiveness it has, the truth. And you speak of pride. The Minister of Justice finished his words, precisely when this law was discussed in December, in 2014, showing the will to dialogue, to modify and to adjust the law. Because what he was commenting on was that a bill had been found, and so that the vacatio legis did not go beyond 2015, to finish profiling the record that was designed in the law of 2011, it was better to continue processing, and through that, and through a process, as I say, of dialogue, of modifications and adjustments, to improve it. And he talks about spurious ends. Listen, if it were so clear that the commercial registrars were going to have the bicoca carrying the Civil Registry, they would have been delighted, and the first ones to put their repairs were them, when it was a rumor, because what was being given was a thing that was still being talked about at the same time with several institutions, also with the judicial secretaries. Then it was a rumor, and it was taken for granted, it was taken for granted. Finally, it's been decided that they're... That, I say, if it were such a bicoca would have been delighted, they would have asked for it and would have applauded with their ears, as is usually said vulgarly, and not so. I mean, the spurious ends, then, I don't see them. The matter of public officials, Mrs Gallastegui, I have emphasized it in phosphorite, because, as the attention has drawn me so much... You put it here: they're public officials. Then it's true that in the next paragraph it already says "I'm wrong, I'm going to change it," but you put it, you put it. And the character... Of course, we also agree with a public civil registry, accessible and free of charge, but that's what it puts in the law. That's what's coming in the law! And that we have to pay for it. Man, and the current Civil Registry, what is it, free? The workers work for free? Is the infrastructure kept free of charge? Doesn't it have a cost? Doesn't it have a cost? It's just that anyone would say that what you've got right now is absolutely free! The truth is that the amendment does not cease to surprise us. First that, reject it; what you can't refuse there, you reject here. Then it also comes to say that it is maintained by the Civil Registry offices. Hey, isn't this a self-amendment to the 2011 law? Because the law of 2011 said that it could not be followed, that the keeping of the register had to change and had to leave the area in which it was at this time, because the judicial bodies had to devote themselves to what is their role, which is to judge and enforce the court. Isn't this a self-amendment? Because if they stay the same, they stay the same, and that's exactly what the law of 2011 said, they couldn't stay the same. And then, in relation to the maintenance of the job. I have not spoken to him about an agreement; I have told him that he has sat down to talk to the unions. In November, he sat down to talk at the table, and among other points one of which was that of the Civil Registry. And then in statements he said that he has also kept in touch – that will be said by Mr Erkoreka, whether it is true or not – with those autonomous communities that have staff so that that commitment to maintaining public employment can be maintained. He's committed. And the free and public nature comes in the law. And in relation to the imposition, so, listen, look, this, and the Basque Nationalist Party itself has told you, this is decided in the Congress of Deputies. And even if we had the jurisdiction of the Civil Registry, a law would continue to be decided in the Congress of Deputies. It is not an imposition; it is the institutional and constitutional framework that we have. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u42	Thank you, Miss Llanos. End of discussion, we'll vote for the middle line that the Basque Socialists and the EH Collectors have signed. They're asking for stitches and we'll vote, unless there's no problem. First, we vote for the second and third point. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 10; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u43	Thus the first and second and third points are accepted. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstations are 0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u44	As a result, the fourth point is not accepted. Five point in theme list: "Mortion, Daniel Maeztu Perez EH collect members of the team, in order not to reopen the nuclear Plant of Garoña. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Lopez de Munin, your word is to introduce action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u45	Good morning, everyone. It's time to get through words to action. There have been several initiatives in this Chamber that have been admitted to Garoña's thread, we should say too much. Politics and political debates ought to assist in repairing the affairs of the people. Garoña is a problem, and it's a problem that the governments in Madrid have not been able to respond to public standards. None of us here, I hope, dares to support the maintenance of the Garoña nuclear power plant. However, we are not many who, being here, dare to see in the rotating doors of the two major state parties the reason for the lack of solutions to this problem. Today, as on other occasions, the Alavesa and Basque society as a whole requires us to take a step forward for all those present. Today is the day to take that step. The initiative presented by Euskal Herria Bildu does not seek to extend the debate on Garoña; it seeks only to put in place real solutions that already prevent, once and for all, the reopening and maintenance of the activity of the Garoña nuclear power plant. Central that remains open only for the economic interests of two large energy companies, Iberdrola and Endesa. Central that remains open by the control that the big energy companies carry out over the energy policy of the different governments. Both companies have had multi-million dollar profits during 2014. I'm going to give you some of that data. Endesa has had a profit in the first nine months of 2014 of 1,219 million euros. This amount exceeds by several million the budget of the Basque Government under the heading of employment and social policies. Endesa has made during 2014 the largest profit-sharing ever made in the Spanish State: 14.6 billion euros, an amount that exceeds by more than 300 million the 2015 budget of the entire Basque Government. Now I'll give you some other data on Iberdrola. Iberdrola generated a net profit in 2014, according to recent data, of 2,326.5 million euros, which is five times more than the budget of the Basque Government for economic development and competitiveness. And while these companies earn these millions a year, the bill that each of us and all of us and all of our citizens have to pay has risen by 60%, and it is all because it is trading with a public good. These two companies own Garoña. They are the ones who, through manipulation, misinformation and blackmail, want to keep the central station of Garoña open, in order to continue to take advantage of an energy market that allows them to have multimillion dollar profits. Both companies are willing to blackmail governments politically to continue filling their pockets with money, and all thanks to those who allowed and allow a scam committed by the energy lobby, which costs us millions of euros to citizens. Those responsible for allowing this are those who have ruled by the hands of these and other companies in the sector. They have created a scenario in which these companies charge citizens' bills day by day, week by week, month by month, with large increases. Their benefits come out of our pockets, and they want more. They want to keep Garoña open to benefit from the advantages that some political parties have given them by financing nuclear energy, and all while there are families who cannot afford electricity or heating their homes. This is the reality they have generated with their policies. Garoña is a model, a model of a certain neurotic model. The pattern Garoña represents is not bearable, either secure or economically viable. Besides, it is a manifest danger to the health of the company. We do not want nuclear power stations near Euskal Herria, or far away. Euskal Herria Bildu demands the closure of all power stations, and we are committed to a conversion of the energy sectors on the basis of renewable energies, recovering this sector for the public, as strategic that it is, for the citizens, and according to the needs of that citizenship and not of the big companies. With this data we intend to lay the foundations for the political debate that must be undertaken, without lies and without false truths veiled by the economic interests of the two companies that are behind Garoña. That is why we have sought to leave this plenary with as much consensus as possible, a consensus that will allow us to be closer to putting the end to the history of the plant. The points we have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party are as follows: "The Parliament agrees to challenge directly any administrative act or arrangement that may involve the reopening of the Garoña nuclear power plant. This challenge is based on the fact that Royal Decree 102/2014 of 21 February, which establishes the basis for responsible management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, does not comply with the law. "Parliament urges the Basque Government to set up a scientific committee of experts to analyse the consequences in the field of safety, energy and the environment that may arise from the reopening of the Garoña nuclear power plant. The specific functions and composition of the Committee shall be agreed upon in a joint committee composed of the Committees for Economic Development and the Environment." And the third and final point agreed: "The Basque Parliament will seek the European Commission's protection in the face of a possible reopening of the Garoña nuclear power plant, in order to supervise the procedure for granting a hypothetical licence to open the nuclear power plant, preventing non-compliance with the safety requirements imposed after the Fukushima accident in the face of the possibility of granting a new licence". These three points are basic to reach a point of no return in relation to Garoña. As I said before, it is time to move from words policy to facts policy; it is time to put an end to the pressure on political power by energy companies; it is time, therefore, to put an end to the relations between the major political parties, including the Basques, and energy companies. We have to put an end to the rotating doors. You have to stop a character like Acebes this year earning 1 million euros as Iberdrola's advisor. We must put an end to this policy and to the enrichment of those who have legislated for and by energy lobbies. It is a moment of sincere policy and you do not owe it in our balance sheets. Basque society, and I am sure that the one outside of Euskal Herria will also support it on 28 February, in the march called by Araba without Garoña in Gasteiz. It is time to replenish the streets demanding once again the closure of the plant, and let us hope that it will finally be the last. Close the Garoña now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Passing the crews who are running the corrections, Mr Maroto, representing the Basque Potula, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I like to call things by their name, and today I also go out to this rostrum to do it. What is the purpose of bringing this non-law proposal on Garoña to this Parliament today? There are two options. The first is to discuss what has been discussed over and over again, like a scratched disc, in relation to the continuity that Garoña has to have and, with some additions depending on the actuality of each moment, to repeat what has been said again. That is the first possibility, but it is not the possibility for you to bring this debate here today. There's another possibility: let's see if the PP can handle the guy. We're going to bring in a tougher text, a harder text, a text in which we're already starting to say things that I'll talk about later. Let's see if that photo that was so annoying to some, in which the People's Party of the Basque Country said "We've come here with Garoña", is repeated today or not repeated in this Parliament. That's what this non-law proposition comes for. We're not gonna cheat, that's why. Not to repeat and discuss how bad Garoña is, the inconsistencies that have been experienced and the desirability of its immediate closure. That's why we don't bring this non-law proposition. It's for the second, to see if the PP can handle the guy here today in the Basque Parliament. Well, we are going to vote in favour of this text, and we are going to do so because, although we do not agree with part of the contents, and I will explain why, they are not going to get us out of our position of coherence once taken, of telling anyone to say, where to say, that Garoña must be closed, that it is a danger to security, and that moreover the majority position in our city, here, in the capital of the Basque Country, in Vitoria, and also in the whole of Euskadi, that majority position says that we must close Garoña. The goal of your non-law proposal is not going to come forward, or rather, we are going to change it today to say again all together "Garoñarik ez". The proof that what was proposed here today and what was intended here today was not to debate for the umpteenth time about Garoña, but "to see if on this occasion we let the PP go, to see if we can find some crack in all this", are the words of the spokesman who preceded me: "We have reached the greatest possible consensus, that of the whole House (the Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and Bildu)". Hey, not a second of trying with the People's Group. We don't care. Let's say here today, with our votes, not Garoña, again, as we did last time. Now, they will also allow me to say, with all due respect, that there are some issues that incorporate your initiative in which you cannot agree in general, because this sometimes curls the curl, or call things in another way so that you can bring back a debate to this House... Anyway, "everything's good" I don't think it's good. The "we stick anything, and with this to see if we get the target," is not useful. I was wondering in the first of the points, in which it says "Let's challenge anything, let's challenge everything, from the beginning and without knowing; let's challenge absolutely everything that says, which means any possibility of reopening Garoña"... I was wondering now, taking some note in the seat: What if tomorrow, despite having a unanimous position in this House against Garoña (let it be clear, "Garoñarik ez", it cannot be said more clearly), if tomorrow there is a decision of Parliament, of the Congress of Deputies, with the majorities either, with this government or with another, to undertake the entire investment plan necessary to guarantee the security of Garoña, an investment plan to guarantee security measures, should not change our position from the closure of Garoña, but will we challenge a decision taken in the budget to make investments in improving the security of a nuclear power plant that affects us? You're asking for this today! Do you realize that this may be one of the measures we are going to challenge? Are we going to challenge, for example, an investment measure to improve security assurances, although we do not agree that the plant is open? Would we impute such a decision from this Parliament? Well, you're asking! Even that degree of incongruity is reached, from my point of view. And I insist, that does not take away so that this whole House, and the People's Party of the Basque Country the first, let's say to everyone, from Minister Soria to the last of the affected, that we call for the closure of this central Garoña. If a special employment plan is decided tomorrow in the area with people affected in the environment by the sector of activity, do we also challenge it? These are questions I leave on the table. I'm not looking for answers. Nor do I intend to hold any debate that provokes any group, because, I insist, I have come to this rostrum to say "Garoñarik ez". The Basque People's Group is on this issue and, I'm sorry, they will not be able to separate us from the position we had adopted. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore again vote with the House to say no to Garoña and to all those who defend its continuity, whoever it is. But, of course, what we want to make clear is also that there are some issues that arise that I think are not common sense. If the text said "The Basque Parliament calls for the analysis of decisions and, where appropriate, judicial decisions", then we could understand that. But to decide to present a text that says "We challenge everything, from the beginning and without knowing, without knowing, without asking; to everything, no", therefore, it is a decision that surprises us. He also said the spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word that "we do not want central, near or far." Well, I don't have a lot of life in this Parliament, but I don't know how many initiatives, from your group or from any other, there are so that in France, which is a few kilometres away, the French Assembly, or the European Parliament..., I don't know how many initiatives there are, because there are actually nuclear power plants at risk, and Garoña is one according to different opinions. But there are others. So, I understand Iberdrola's speech, the bad guys, the Acebes... All of that I understand, especially in some voices. But coherence, which gives coherence to speeches, is to be consistent until the last moment. I try to be, and I defend here what I have been defending for many years, before and after, with one another and with another: coherence. But, of course, I would also vote on the same resolution if I were to urge the French Assembly in relation to some central of the same conditions as the central of Garoña. I am not going to expand much further, because our position today, as a People's Group, will be to endorse the decision we have taken in this House. With the support of the whole People's Group, let's say, for everyone who has to listen to us, that the People's Party in the Basque Country does not agree with the reopening of Garoña. And whoever has to hear that message has to hear it. The Group of the European People's Party does not want to leave anything behind. That's why we're not going to start asking for points votes – which I'm sure they wouldn't allow us to, or get into nuances, or get into the game of "this way yes or this way no". Let's get to the bottom of it. Today the People's Group will support this three-group transaction of the House, to do so – I don't know what the last group will do – unanimously, so that the message is clear. The Basque Parliament has no cracks in this. Let's say "Garoñarik ez". We are all going to say it, and we are going to say it together again in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u48	Thank you, Mr Marot. Mr Pricee, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u49	President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been difficult to reach this Parliament on this occasion. There have been many occasions when we have spoken about Garoña, but on this occasion there has been a difference of opinion as to whether we could deal with it in a plenary of Parliament or not, as a result of some opinion that this was a subject dealt with on several occasions. And it is true, it has been dealt with on several occasions, and I am afraid that, for now at least, it will have to be dealt with on some more. Because the problem is not how many times has it been dealt with in this Parliament; the problem is that the threat of the reopening of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant persists, and that threat of reopening of the power plant clashes with what is the political position, now unanimous, of this Parliament, socially by the vast majority... Mr. Maneiro tells me that not unanimous (actually 74-1). There is also a majority in society, and I believe that there is a fairly advanced political position that nuclear energy is an energy that needs to be gradually abandoned. Nuclear energy is an option, nuclear energy has had its life, it has had its history, we have contributed to it, we have paid for having it close to us the risk of having lived with it, but this nuclear power plant has already expired its useful life. Already the previous Government, the former Government of the People's Party, the Socialist Government, shut down the power plant for 2013, laid the foundations for the closure of that nuclear power plant, which later, with approaches that I will describe, has tried to turn the People's Party around. Therefore, here we do not come today to discuss this matter and to take a position because we want to see whether the People's Party can stand the type or not, whether this is the least, but what we want is to stand the type ourselves. That is, to endure the type of security, to endure the type of modern energies, of renewable energies, of energies of other characteristics other than nuclear energy, for which we have been working for a long time. And if today the People's Party wasn't involved in maintaining nuclear power, if it wasn't involved in maintaining the idea of reopening the Santa Maria de Garoña nuclear power plant, obviously we wouldn't be here. Therefore, the solution is in yourselves. Don't do a little bit of everything: on the one hand they come and say, "Let us hear who has to listen to us, because we say loud and clear that we do not agree with the reopening of the plant", and on the other hand there is a harassment towards you. The truth is that the People's Party is not so important in the sense of the debate; in any case, the Government of Spain is important, which is doing very little explaining and very little presenting. Look, the Government of Spain has turned the reopening of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant into a problem of pride, a problem of truancy, a matter of "ordering, commanding and making known". Because in reality the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant, beyond the fact that nuclear energy was a political option and that the previous government had left the basis for its closure, in fact the one who says that he does not want to continue to exploit it is Nuclenor himself, given the lack of profitability. I mean, it's not even a political merit, if you mean like that, but it's Nuclenor himself who says, "Hey, it's not profitable for me." And it is not profitable for me because if I have to pay the tax that you have put on – and it now seems that you have taken it off, although you have not yet explained it – then if I have to invest in the security that the European Union is asking of me after the Fukushima event, then this does not give me the numbers. And since I'm not willing to invest hundreds of millions in paying the public purse or doing security measures, I'm going to proceed to its closure. But, despite that economic reality by which Nuclenor says "I'm going to shut down the Santa Maria de Garoña nuclear power plant", there is a government of the People's Party, there is a government that somehow violates its own commitments, puts a tax on it and seems to take it off, knows that it has to comply with a security and jumps it, forces the Nuclear Security Council to position itself in an unheard-of time on the possibility of reopening all this, crawls before Nuclenor pleading that it has to ask for the opening of a file to open the nuclear power plant, when they see no return to it, is supposed that there are also a number of approaches of economic engagement with the Nuclenor himself because, if not, the accounts do not come out..., and this is the problem. The problem is that the Government of Spain, the Government of Rajoy, Mr Soria, have made a symbol of this. That is, in a nuclear power plant, if the People's Party does not authorize its closure, it cannot be closed. And if, even above politics, it turns out that the numbers don't come out and Nuclenor wants to close it, we too will do the impossible and play the balls that are needed for Nuclenor to have to twist his arm and have to re-open. This is the problem, this is what is happening right now, and that is why we are here, for trying to prevent that act of pride being consumed, that set of abuses on taxation, on security, on the confrontation that implies that decision with the institutions and with the whole of the citizenry, and therefore, because in the end in that decision of the Government of Spain there is no reason, there is no progress, there is no security, there is no public interest... There's absolutely nothing. I mean, nobody wants that energy. Nobody wants her here. But it's not that anyone wants it; it's that nobody needs it, it's that it's not necessary. It is that we have been without the operation of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant for the economic consequences of Nuclenor, we have been in time, we have been months, many months, and there has been no resentment. Nothing has happened at all! There is still sufficient energy supply for the needs previously provided by the nuclear power plant. There is no new situation, there is no new orientation of demand, of necessity, of demand, so that this can be done. But you are committed to pursuing the idea of reopening, and this is simply, as I say, a encroachment, it is an act of pride, it is an act of confrontation with the institutions and with the citizenry. It is an attempt to impose something that is now surpassed by the vast majority of citizens. But this is the problem of the policy that your Government is doing, Mr Maroto. And I understand your discomfort, because you have done a process, and your party in the Basque Country has done a process; in that process you have passed, if not long ago very pronuclear, little by little going to abandon that ground and in the end say, by whatever circumstances, that you do not want the nuclear power plant to open. And yet they have a government and they have a party in general that tells them that yes, whatever happens they pull forward. I understand that discomfort. But, well, don't you turn against political initiatives, nor put yourself as much as very narcissistic about what is the navel of the world. Listen, if you were not a parliamentarian, and if the People's Party were here in the Basque Country, or in this House, with the reopening of the Santa Maria de Garoña nuclear power plant, we would have had this exactly the same thing. What's more, the text... If you were in agreement with the above, you can perfectly subscribe to this text, because this text in relation to the previous one has basically two differences. The first, which, in addition to Parliament, calls on the Basque Government to act when there are elements to protect the reopening of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant. This is the first point. So, it's not challenging anything, nor is it coming here... Finally, you know this from political theory: you can come up with absurd approaches, try to reduce things to absurdity and say "how satisfied I am, because I am right, I have reduced this to absurdity". Listen, no, it's not a very brilliant intellectual exercise either to reduce things to absurdity. We are talking about challenging the reopening of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant, we are talking about calling for the European Commission's protection so as not to make it easier for these to happen, when the nuclear power plant is already totally unworkable in the economic and security aspects. We are asking that there be a committee of experts who also abound more in this matter and explain better why the possibility of reopening that Santa Maria de Garoña nuclear power plant is harmful. Look, this is what we're proposing. This you can't tide it up or give it many laps to do here some sort of, first, "Here I am, I've been reborn, I've just arrived, I've fallen off the horse, now I'm the one who most requests the shutdown of the nuclear power plant. But, hey, on top of what I'm asking, on top of which I'm the last to arrive, it's that you also make it a little complicated for me, because you say things that my government doesn't like, or that can bother the People's Party." Look, look, these are the servitudes of politics. Of course, lifting a wall and not falling dust is a bit difficult. Of course, you have started to raise the wall, or to help raise the wall, at the last minute, and, indeed, it is more difficult, more complicated, and it creates more problems for you to have done so. But, finally, there is no big difference between the above and the present. What is happening is, again, a position of this Parliament, which I am very pleased that it is unanimously, saying that it is a barbarity that the Spanish Government wants to do. And, therefore, all that is at our disposal, the means and instruments that we can develop so that this does not happen, is the political commitment of this Parliament and the body that it makes to our Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u50	Thank you, Mr Price. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u51	Thank you, President. We are talking again about the Garoña nuclear power plant and I will repeat the same arguments I have made on other occasions. I believe that it can be said that UPyD in this matter, as in all the others, is clearly consistent in relation to this issue. We defend the same here as there and beyond, and with the same arguments as well. What I do not think is reasonable is that there is a political representative who says nothing more and nothing less than that he will vote in favour of an initiative because he has the support of the majority of society. That seems to me to be the greatest absurdity that can be heard in a political representative, in this case Mr Maroto. You vote because there is a majority of society that defends it. Finally, you will have to vote in favour of this if you believe that what is proposed here is indeed reasonable, because, if not, what are the political parties for? There would be only one political party in Euskadi, and it would have the same position on all issues, and it would also work on the basis of surveys, on the basis of demoscopy. We don't believe in that. We believe in arguments, ideas, and if we think that a certain thing has to be defended, we defend it even if we remain alone. We don't have a problem. Therefore, I believe that here there are three issues to be discussed again, or on which I want to speak as I have on other occasions. Three cases. On the one hand, the debate on nuclear energy (and here it would be interesting to know the position of the PP in relation to nuclear energy, and also the position of the Basque Nationalist Party in relation to nuclear energy, to know its position, if any), the debate on the Garoña nuclear power plant, and finally something about what we have also been dealing with, which is the vodka we have attended over the past few years and which we have been denouncing. With regard to the debate on nuclear energy, we believe that in Spain there has been a lot of demagogy about everything related to nuclear energy. We believe that antinuclear posture has been made a kind of mantra, and that this stance has been defended without conflicting arguments, without data, with half truths or even with falsehoods. Without going further, there have been those who have said in this Parliament that the Garoña nuclear power plant is falling apart, and there have been those who have wanted to counter nuclear energy with renewables, as if they could be the only component of the necessary energy mix. I still remember the words of Mr. Ramírez-Escudero in June 2014, when he was talking about the "oxidized" nuclear power plant, or when he said that it was not fair to endanger the lives of 300,000 people, or when he said that we didn't even want to imagine the consequences of a nuclear accident in Garoña, or when he focused or referred to and named the Chernobyl and Fukushima power plants, or when he said that a hypothetical toxic cloud of Garoña would appear on Dato Street in just two hours, and wondered who could evacuate a city like Vitoria in two hours. In our opinion, these are verbal excesses that lead nowhere. Mr Maroto has also said today that the Garoña nuclear power plant is a danger. So, when someone says that the Garoña nuclear power plant is a danger to society, I think it has to provide very concrete data to prove it. And if that data is not concrete, it will have to be concluded that this argument is invented or that it lies directly. Therefore, the debate in those terms, or the use of such expressions, is an overstatement, especially when the user does not provide any supporting documentation. And if it's not substantiated, we conclude that it's pure demagogy. By the way, Mrs Tapia clarified in November 2014 that the temporary stop or shutdown of the Garoña nuclear power plant was due to economic reasons. It was due to economic reasons. The plant is stopped, and is stopped for economic reasons, not for security reasons. We think like Councilwoman Tapia, that in the current energy mix nuclear energy plays an important role, and that it is therefore still necessary. We would like to know the position on this issue both of the Basque Nationalist Party and of the People's Party, if they consider nuclear energy to be necessary today. We think that yes, and therefore what we say is: Since nuclear energy is needed today, nuclear power plants that are open should be kept open or the possibility of reopening Garoña should be considered. That is so, in the event that it meets all the established safety requirements, each and every one of them. And if it doesn't, it obviously can't reopen. And another obvious thing is also the voodoo we have witnessed over the past few years, and that is surely the worst thing about this matter. I will sum it up, but I think it has a key and unique moment when in June 2013 Nuclenor formally calls for the closure of the Garoña nuclear power plant, and warns that if there were regulatory changes that would allow it to do so, it would consider requesting a renewal of the operating authorisation. We said for those days that it gives the feeling that Nuclenor has tried to pressure the government to enjoy certain benefits and privileges. And that's why we defended some amendment that was trying to say to the government, "You don't give in to pressure, and act taking into account the general interest of the citizenry." And that is why we proposed an amendment in which the second point was to urge the Government of Spain not to create ad hoc regulations for any nuclear power station, nor to apply the existing one in a spurious way, nor to make misleading interpretations of the existing rules in order to benefit certain particular interests, nor to grant any kind of personalized tax benefit; not to give in to any kind of pressure, blackmail or threat, and to act always, and in particular in this matter, with absolute clarity and transparency, which is something that it has, of course, not done at all. One year ago, on 21 February 2014, the Council of Ministers amended the Regulations on Nuclear and Radioactive Installations, which would allow the Garoña plant to request the renewal of its licence and its possible reopening before 6 July. It was therefore a real ad hoc decree. In addition, the People's Party abolished the nuclear waste tax by eliminating its retroactivity, as well as allowing them not to pay that tax while the plant is closed. In other words, what UPyD proposed to the Government not to do was done: ad hoc legislation was created to allow its reopening. And to us this, obviously, can't seem serious. Otherwise, we think it's a voodoo. That is, the Government did what we did not want it to do. It failed, let us say, to comply with that amendment that we had tabled, because we suspected that the Government would actually act in that way. Later, Iberdrola and Endesa officially requested the renewal of the operating permit for their atomic installations to remain operational for the next seventeen years, i.e. until 2 March 2031. The Nuclenor communiqué included a commitment by the plant to address the design changes previously required by the Nuclear Security Council, relating to containment insulation, the independence of electrical systems, fire protection and the new reserve treatment system. On 30 September, Nuclenor referred to the Nuclear Security Council the planning of the activities planned to meet the requirements of the Council, a series of additional requirements which must therefore be met and which would be valued at approximately EUR 150 million. Hence our amendment. What does our amendment say? We propose to urge the Government of Spain to maintain all the security requirements and, therefore, all the necessary investments as an indispensable condition for the Garoña nuclear power plant to be able, if necessary, to restart its currently paralysed activity, ensuring that, in any case, and without any traps, European safety regulations and international requirements are respected. Therefore, that it can be reopened, where appropriate, provided that it meets each and every one of the security conditions, and if it does not, it must be definitively closed. This is what we are defending, which I believe could even be supported by a majority of Members of this House. It seems to me to be common sense, since there are a number of groups in this House, I believe, who consider nuclear power or power to be still indispensable today. Finally, that is, therefore, what we are proposing; that is why we maintain our amendment, and that is what we are going to vote on. Mr Maroto – I will refer to him because he has given himself considerable importance in his intervention – said that the Garoña nuclear power plant is a danger. Well, Mr. Maroto, you have to prove that the Garoña nuclear power plant is a danger. It can be said that it is not necessary, in short, all political positions are respectable, but if someone says that it is a danger, that it falls to pieces or that there is imminent risk of a toxic cloud, I imagine he will have to give arguments. But, in any case, I ask the Group of the European People's Party: do you agree that today's nuclear energy is indispensable? If the Garoña nuclear power plant met all the established safety requirements, each and every one of them, would you agree that it could finally be reopened? Anyway, I hope Mr. Maroto answers me. On the other hand, I believe that, by insisting so much that the Group of the European People's Party is perfectly cohesive on this issue, and that everyone thinks exactly the same, by insisting so much on this argument, I think it gives us the feeling that it is just the opposite. Of course, each political party has the possibility and the option, and on many occasions it is good, to change its political position in relation to any question, but in this case I believe that there are doubts about the consistency of the People's Party, because it defends one thing here, and something else defends in the rest of Spain. And even the arguments raised here today at least did not seem convincing to me at all...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u52	Please finish, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u53	In conclusion, nuclear power today is indispensable (that is, it is a fact; in the future it may not, but today it is indispensable), and, therefore, the Garoña nuclear power plant, if it meets all the requirements, could be reopened. Guaranteeing, of course, all security.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u54	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ramírez-Ecudero, your word is yours. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Good morning, everyone. Since last June, during the whole gathering, since this last appeared around the nuclear Plant in Garoña, we haven't heard from this matter. The want of information reassures no one, and therefore it is proper that the legislature should be brought back to the central world, and once more to restore the final closure. We are aware that the motion we bring today is neither an exciting nor an exciting motion, but it is, however, a necessary motion. It has been eight months since the Basque Parliament adopted a similar motion in June last year, and in these eight months there has been a great deal of silence, silence of all kinds: silence of the exploitative company of Garoña, silence of the two electric companies that maintain 50% each of that company, silence of the Minister of Industry, silence of the High Nuclear Security Council, and also silence of the Government of Madrid. And those of us who live near Garoña know that, of course, the facilities are being maintained, and that the company could put into operation Garoña very soon after a hypothetical decision to reopen the plant. That is why we insist that when Bildu raised this motion we saw the advantage of repeating again the majority (74 over 75) of the June votes, which can be a kind of call for attention, of aldabonaz for Basque society, so that they know that, although eight months of nuclear disinformation have passed, the Basque Parliament still continues to say no to Garoña. We will do it on Saturday 28 in the streets of Gasteiz, and we do it today also in this rostrum. And that is why I recognize that it is not a motion of an insurmountable quality, but it is a motion that was necessary, for the time that has passed without having any news about it. The third point of the motion is to seek the European Commission's protection in the event of reopening, a point, man, which is necessary, but which is the least that can be done. The second point concerns the creation of a scientific committee, which would not have an executive validity at all, but it is also a good idea, although it obviously does not have much to go on in practice. And the first is also a legal measure that can be a legal toast to the sun, because there are jurists who say that although Parliament..., they doubt that Parliament could challenge any administrative provision in Madrid, but, even if it could be challenged, they doubt that such a challenge would have any effect. That is to say, that we, who have signed, at least I, recognize that the advantage of this motion today is that the majority vote against Garoña will be repeated again. The advantage of this motion is the number of votes that we can have against Garoña today, and not precisely the quality of what is proposed, which obviously does not vary much from eight months ago, because neither has the reality changed much more. And we agree with the signed motion, but we disagree with the justification that included Bildu before the motion. The justification was that the reason for this motion was that Arantza Tapia's explanations in November, 14 November 2014, were not sufficient. We think they were enough, and we also think that this Basque Government and this Basque Parliament have done everything they had to do and everything they could do on the subject of Garoña. It is obvious to remember that Garoña is in Burgos, that Burgos belongs to Castile and León, and that Castile and León is Spain, and that we know that whoever closes Garoña cannot be either this Parliament or this Government. So, with these measures we think that the Basque Government has done what it had to do, and also that the information that Arantza Tapia gave here four or five months ago was true information, which is what it had to give. With regard to Mr Maroto, I believe that the first part of his speech has been completely dreamy. You had a nightmare today, a bad dream, and you thought that you were surrounded by the enemy, and that everyone was going after him. I can tell you it's absolute and completely false. In the negotiations that Mr Maeztu has had, Mr Prieto and I with the motions have never talked about the PP. It was just about the motion. This motion is an anti-Garona motion, not an anti-PP motion. You also said in one of your sentences that the PP photo was very annoying, the June photo, when the PP in the Basque Country finally decided to vote against the reopening of Garoña. I want to say that for our part we liked it, it did not bother us, because we said "Hey, we are no longer 64 votes in Parliament, we are 74". I mean, that complex that has this motion as anti-PP is radical and completely false, victim of a dream or whatever, but, come on, no one, when we were negotiating the motion, thought of "Let's do this to see...", thinking chord to see what the PP is doing. I can assure you. If not, I'd tell him otherwise. Absolutely no one remembered you. And with regard to UPyD, I thank you for always citing the example I set of the toxic cloud. Looks like he liked it. But, Mr. Maneiro, I have to remind you that it's an EGB first thing. I do not know if you approved the subject by copying or if you did not copy in that case, but if you measure the distance between Garoña and Vitoria in kilometers, obviously, and divide it between the wind speed in kilometers per hour, you get a result that is the hours that would take that toxic cloud to get from Garoña to this Parliament. And if not, ask the inhabitants of Fukushima and Chernobyl, who lived several tens of kilometres away, to see if the toxic cloud is true or not. You also said that the problem of Garoña is not economic, and that is also inaccurate... No, the other way around, he said it's economic, it's not security. It is inaccurate, because this economic problem stems from the large investments that need to be made in security. That is to say, first there is the problem of security; then, as economically it is a very strong investment, that is what makes you doubt the profitability of the operation. But strong investment must be made in security. Then the problem of Garoña remains security, not economy, as you said. In short, that is a necessary motion, that we had to do it and that, even if it is to repeat a little bit about eight months ago, it is a response perhaps to the silence of the Administration and the company, which have been saying absolutely nothing for eight months. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. When we reach the turn of the answers, lópez de Munain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u56	With your permission... How to talk about coherence in politics, and in the case of the People's Party, can go from being a tragic thing to becoming a funny thing, and especially given that coherence in relation to energy companies does not lie in the vote that can be held here today, but is on the boards of directors of these companies, I do not think it is a reason for discussion, nor to lose a second in it. I would like to know, just as I would certainly like to know to all the social majority that is against Garoña, Gazteiz, Araba and Basque Herria, if the mayor, the highest political representative of the city, will participate in the demonstration next 28 February in Gazteiz. Because the position of Euskal Herria Bildu during all these years has been the same: we have always voted exactly the same, we have always stood against nuclear power plants, and we will do so here and in People's China. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u57	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr Marot, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u58	Yes, thank you very much. I'm going back to the evidence. I was saying this in the first round; I think that of Mr. Xabi Prieto (corrigor me, Mr. Prieto, if I am wrong) I took sic : "You" – addressing me, he said – "are precluding themselves in continuing to defend the reopening of Garoña". If you bring the prepared speech, considering that you are going to get the Basque People's Party out of this majority, then it comes out with phrases like that. I have no problem telling you that not only do I not get involved, but that I announced in the first round, to avoid surprises, what the position of our group would be. I am surprised by your interpretation of my discomfort in this matter. I will make a brief reflection in the few seconds I have, Mr Prieto, to tell you that sometimes you are more uncomfortable; that sometimes standing aside and being in the current may be the most comfortable, but it is not the best, and it is not my way of being. And I think that, for the good and the bad, with the right and the mistakes that that can make, that's what I've raised. I'm telling you because, look, someone was saying, "Mr. Maroto has been reborn, the last one comes here to talk about this." I refer – as you customize not in the People's Group, but in my person – to the position in relation to Garoña's closure. Being uncomfortable on all occasions, I defended it when I was a member of the opposition in the city council and the president of the government was Mr Zapatero; I defended it when I was mayor of the city and the president of the government was Mr Zapatero; I defended it when I was mayor of the city and the president was Mr Rajoy, and he always defended it for consistency, despite how uncomfortable it might be in this Parliament. Being uncomfortable in politics is not a problem. It is an advantage if one defends, with successes or mistakes, a position of coherence. And I do not pretend to be any protagonist, beyond saying that this is what many people ask of their public representatives: not to put themselves in the wave or in the candle of anyone, but to defend what one honestly believes from his conviction, with correctness and with errors, which is what I have tried to do. Mr. Ramírez-Escudero, surely if you review the record... I'm saying it because you're the ones who say, "No, we're not here to talk about the PP," but you've done nothing but talk about the PP. In your specific case, Mr Ramírez Escudero, you will remember, when the first time you touched me in this Parliament the debate in Garoña, you were also your group's spokesman, and it is absolutely right that that is so. And I remind you of what you said in this rostrum looking me in the eye and also looking into the eyes of other members of my group. You said: "We have not come here to see what the People's Party of the Basque Country is doing. We've come here to see what Maroto does." Do you remember? It is in the minutes of this Parliament. It is in the minutes of this Parliament. Of course it takes them and motivates them to the position of our group! Today that position is a position that shares with the rest of the House what we are saying today: "We do not agree with the reopening of Garoña". Also, for a position of coherence, not to put on the wave, which goes very well, we say: "Hey, some things you bring – and I think your intervention went in the same direction – are not coherent." Because to pretend to overthrow everything, which is what it says here, to challenge everything that is to speak of Garoña, it is the inconcurrence that if tomorrow a motion or a law, unanimously in the Congress of Deputies, invests 15 million euros in security measures in Garoña, to continue, this Parliament would find itself in the paradoxical situation of challenging an agreement like that, even if we maintain our position against Garoña. Do you realize that that's incongruous? He's just trying to explain what's common sense. And I think you agree with me on this, and so, very politely and correctly, you said, "Well, it's not the best text, but let's see if we get the biggest votes." Yeah, 'cause the Basque PP's gonna be here. Let's make this clear. Is it uncomfortable? Look, for me a lot, and for my group too. For other speakers who have discussed this matter too. But that's what coherence has. And we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it convinced that we're right. And we're going to do it out of conviction, and we're going to do it out of coherence. To Bildu's spokesman, I want to tell him that sometimes the first ones arrive and sometimes they are late. Look, in this matter of demonstrations by Garoña I will answer you with one question. You think you live in Vitoria, or at least you're chosen here, I've been told. I, as mayor of Vitoria, at the City Hall of Vitoria, have organized in Vitoria a concentration and a demonstration in rejection of Garoña. I've already organized it, and I organized it as the mayor of Vitoria. So, in the end, sometimes giving lessons is not the most opportune thing. But I'll tell you something else. I know exactly what is intended on many occasions with these false invitations. In that demonstration that I organized against Garoña in this city there were some, I think it was also you, who were waiting for me with a sign that put "Maroto I don't know what"... , or against the PP. He didn't want me to go. He didn't want me to go. That invitation is a false invitation. But, I tell you, out of conviction, I as mayor of Vitoria organized in this city, in spite of everything, a concentration against Garoña. That concentration occurred, and the message was forceful. I join in this message of conviction and coherence, which I have been doing in this matter in politics since the first day, despite who weighs and passes what happens. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u59	Thank you, Mr Marot. Eusalis Socialist Group representative. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u60	President. One thing for Mr. Maneiro and then for Mr. Maroto. Mr Maneiro, you have made a statement in which you say that nuclear energy is indispensable. I do not know if you are making this reference at the general level, at the level of Spain; of course, in Euskadi, which is what we are talking about, Garoña – which is what we are talking about – what Garoña means, is not indispensable. And the best demonstration is that it doesn't work and that everything remains exactly the same. Therefore, it is not necessary, it is not indispensable, no one asks for it, no one wants it, and that is why we must proceed to the closure of the plant, or to the non-reopening. Look, Mr. Maroto, you have an ego problem that's tremendous. He's spent ten minutes before and five minutes after, in the replica, fifteen minutes, saying, "I, me, me, me, me, me..." All he needed was the rope. "I, I, I, I, I, I..." Finally, let us go to the political foundation, because, of course, if you entered into the background of what we are dealing with, probably the political position of your party, that of here, that of the Basque Country, would have more foundation, would have more strength, would have more solemnity. With the "me, me, me, me..." it actually gives the impression that it is an opportunism, that it is an exercise in advertising, self-advertising. Anyway, talk about the substance of the matter. If you are against Santa Maria de Garoña remaining open, say it and explain it. And when I have expressed and referred to the People's Party and its closure and all this, in relation to the support of the nuclear power plant, I am obviously referring to the Government of Spain. Because the key doesn't really have you, the decision doesn't have you. It is not the People's Party of the Basque Country that can solve this problem. It is the Government of Spain, it is an act of government. What happens is that in the Government of Spain there is the People's Party, there is Mr Rajoy, there is Mr Soria, and they must be held responsible, obviously, for as much as you now make this balance, or this gap within the General People's Party, saying "Well, although all of Spain is in favour of the nuclear power station, the People's Party of the Basque Country does not". But I think that if I lowered the ego tone a little bit, that position would probably have much more credibility. Look, there's a book, which is the "Codex Romanoff", which is attributed to Leonardo Da Vinci (I say it's attributed to him because there are versions about whether it really is his or not), which has a paragraph that is very nice and that I'm going to read it to him, which says: "You don't have to pinch or hit your neighbor at the table. It is not to make noises of owls, nor to give codaços, nor to put horrible faces, nor eyes in white, nor to spit, nor to set fire to the companion during the meal, nor to put his head on the plate, nor to sit under the table." Behaving in politics with these characteristics, do not then have the problem of being shaken. That is, if you come here and defend the real political position, then we will probably all have a greater tune or a closer approach, because we are ultimately here for politics and not for acronyms. Now, if you come here to have behaviors that are not presentable, that are self-centered until more powerless, and come with "me, me, me...", you will have such answers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u61	Thank you, Mr Price. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u62	Thank you, President. Briefly. To Mr Txarli Prieto to say yes, I respect that you consider that this Garoña nuclear power plant is not necessary today and that therefore its reopening makes no sense. Well, I understand, I respect it, and you may even be right. The point is that there are too many parliamentary groups that are launching the idea in recent times that this Garoña nuclear power plant is falling apart, and that in case it can reopen there will be a toxic cloud over Vitoria. And it seems unacceptable to us that there should be political representatives who repeat this every day of the year. It seems unacceptable to us. If there are arguments to say that this particular plant is not really necessary, well, they can be respected, and even you in this case may be right. But if anyone says that this plant is falling apart, or that it is a danger, I imagine it will be necessary to present evidence or relevant studies on the issue. And this is what I've basically come to say and I've been saying a few months. Because we don't want toxic clouds either. That is why our amendment says that it can be reopened if all the established security conditions are met, and if they are not met, it cannot be reopened. I think this is the wisest and the most reasonable. In relation to Mr. Maroto, I don't know if you feel comfortable, if you don't feel comfortable, if you feel uncomfortable... I'm not clear at the end, how you feel. I feel comfortable defending the ideas I believe in. I mean, when I'm consistent I feel comfortable, even if I'm in a minority. It is not clear to me how you feel today, and whether you feel comfortable or uncomfortable. It gives me the feeling that there are some colleagues of yours, and thousands of voters of the People's Party, who can feel uncomfortable and who do not understand their specific position at all. That's the feeling I have. Because you do not raise a single weighty argument; you raise this position because you consider that it is the political position that will give you the most votes. In fact, that is their usual form of political activity. I mean, you, Mr Maroto, defend one thing or the other depending on whether you consider this to give more votes. It has done so on a multitude of issues, and it does so specifically on this issue. I feel comfortable, I'm consistent, and I stand up for the ideas I believe in even though I'm alone. Not you. And I also asked him if he has data on the safety of this nuclear power plant, and he hasn't answered me, and I asked him whether the People's Party is defending nuclear power or not, and he hasn't answered me either. And I have also raised this question with the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, and he has not answered it either. I would like to know whether these particular groups really consider nuclear energy to be necessary today or not. I think so. It is possible that in the future not, surely not. As of today, yes. As of today, yes. We therefore agree with Mr Oyarzabal, Councilwoman Tapia and a servant. There's three of us, something's something. But, well, it would be good if when they come down to the rostrum they say so too. And in any case, Mr Maroto, I insist: in the event that this plant meets all the security conditions, what would you say? It is not 15 million euros, by the way, that is needed not to put it into operation, but to adapt all the security needs it has, but more than 150 million euros. Hence the economic problem I was talking about. But, finally, if you want to take those measures and take all the security measures, we see that it can be reopened. This is our approach. Consistency and absolute comfort: I defend the ideas I believe in even if I remain alone, as on some other occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u63	Eskerrik asko, Cool yellow. Amaitzeko, Euzko Abertzaleak taldaren ordezkaria den Ramírez-Escudero jaunak dauka hitza. RAMIREZ-SCUDERO ISUSI jaunak: Mr. Maneiro, I'm going to patent the toxic cloud, because you use it more than I still do, eh! You always tell us to bring in the evidence that Garoña is wrong, but we could also ask you the passive question: when will you bring in proof that Garoña is okay? For if it is stopped by a technical stop more than a year ago it is not because they are passing the vacuum cleaner to the carpet; it will be because it has some more damage. So, don't ask for so much evidence that you're wrong and any input that you're okay with, if you have them. Mr Maroto, this seems that in the end it will become a debate of, instead of Garoña yes or Garoña no, what Mr Maroto de Garoña thinks. And none of the signatories to the motion had that idea or that intention. Mr Maroto, your comfort and that of your party is a personal thing, we don't care, and it's a problem for you and your party, but when I said a year or two ago in this Parliament something like what Mr Maroto was going to say was not out of curiosity or by trying to get the PP to position itself, it was because of a much simpler thing, that you may forget and remember it. In the previous debate we discussed, when Garoña was voted on yes or Garoña did not, the PP counted nine votes in favour of the reopening of Garoña; you went to the service or to the group or wherever you went. That's why I said, "Hey, Mr. Maroto, we want to know what you're voting for." Not because I was interested in your particular vote, but because in the previous vote, in order not to remain in either yes or no, you were absent and returned to ten minutes. That's the only reason I said, "Hey, please, stay here and vote so we know what Maroto says." For his previous absence, not for any other interest, obviously. And I can assure you, even though this may make you more sad than happy, that in all the negotiation of the motion at no time has you or the PP been spoken of. It was an anti Garoña motion, and it was not at any time an anti PP motion. I can assure you, and Mr Prieto and Mr Maeztu can also assure you, that we signed and negotiated the motion. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. The debate is over and it's going to vote, EH Collect, Uska Sozialists and Eucabertarian corrections that have signed. He has a little mistake, and at the first point he lacks a phrase: "And I'm gonna ask you to do it." In that case, we can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 1. White, 0; abstenations are 0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u65	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u66	Yes, thank you, President. I thought the agenda had changed. I had been given the opportunity to discuss, apart from that, point 6 instead of this point. I don't know what happened...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u67	Nobody told me anything!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u68	But we can discuss this one. I can talk about a lot of things the same day! [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u69	Nedie me ha dicho! Mr. Maneiro, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u70	Yes, thank you. The initiative we are proposing is simple. It is a question of this Parliament saying that it is opposed and that it rejects the creation of new tax figures or the inclusion of surcharges on some of those currently in force to finance the unit, as recently proposed by the former Employment and Social Policy Adviser of the Basque Government, since, before proposing such an initiative, we believe that separate measures should be taken that remain unimplemented, such as abolishing the unproductive public expenditure that exists both in our institutional framework and in the public sector, prioritising the fate of public money correctly, or fighting fiscal fraud more forcefully, among many others. That is to say, we want this House to stand against statements made at a certain time by the former Employment and Social Policy Adviser. I understand that when a specific adviser puts forward a specific proposal he is speaking as a adviser and is also speaking as a member of the Basque Government, and therefore what we want is for this House to say that it does not agree with what he has proposed, regardless of whether there has been a change of adviser in recent weeks. What did Mr. Aborto say there for the month of November? He defended a tax to guarantee dependency service. According to the media, and so on, it was said that "it has not been resorted to asking for a tax surcharge or a specific tax to meet the dependency, within the framework of a tax reform that generates more resources for the social protection system". It would therefore be a question of enabling a tax burden in Euskadi to guarantee the future of social benefits, and that dependency could be seen as a social security contingency. He was assured that the response to his request would be positive if citizens were asked whether they would be willing to pay more taxes to secure pensions or better care for the unit. He also said that the future challenge of social policies was their funding, and reiterated that public money should not facilitate access to housing ownership. And besides this, you can't discuss a subjective right without discussing how you're going to finance, something as simple as how much it costs and who pays it. That is your proposal, that was your proposal. We understand that it was not a personal proposal, nor a personal reflection, but that it was a counsellor and a member of the Basque Government, and we want this Parliament to say that it does not agree with that proposal. What, in our view, did the Councilor intend to transfer with those statements, and with some other statements that have also been made by other members of the Basque Government, or even by the Lehendakari himself? The idea that there is not enough money today to guarantee the welfare state we enjoy. Statements that are not random, but that are perfectly framed within a strategy, and that seek to sell the idea to us, and to sell that idea to the citizens as a whole, that certain services cannot be provided, that rights cannot be extended, that certain services must be cut, and that can therefore be justified certain social cuts that this Government has already pushed to finally be able to square the accounts. And, in our opinion, this is a big lie. There is no need to create new taxes or ask for any tax surcharge to sustain or even expand the present welfare state. I also think that this approach of the councillor came to light or in relation to what is being discussed in the housing presentation, in relation to the subjective right to housing. It was a way of saying that the Basque Government announced that there were not sufficient resources to guarantee that subjective right, and, I say, in general to try to transfer to the citizenry that there were not enough resources to guarantee the welfare state and that, therefore, the social cuts that had been promoted were justified, and that new social cuts would certainly have to be promoted. We have some background to these demonstrations. Mr Bilbao said something similar three years ago, and even the spokesman himself in this case of the Bizkaia Foreign Office came to say that we should indeed reflect on the way in which essential public services are financed. And I believe that this is part of a strategy of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government to move that idea that social cuts are indispensable. And we do not agree at all with this position. We are sure, we think at least that citizens do not see this possibility with good eyes, and that what citizens are thinking about is that another kind of action be taken, that resources be released from other parts to ultimately sustain the welfare state, maintain public services or even expand them. And what we say is what we have always been saying: in the end, the embassies can be abolished; the headings for language policy can be reduced by more than EUR 110 million per year; the structure of EITB can be resized, which costs us EUR 115 million per year; the institutional framework can be reformed to make it lighter and more reasonable and more rational; the large number of public enterprises, entities and foundations that continue to exist can be abolished or reduced... Not to mention the public money that goes through the sewers to finally end up in the hands of certain friends of some, who ultimately take shape of corrupting them or directly of corruption. That is our approach. We do not agree with the adviser's approach. We don't agree. We think that it is trying to move that idea that social cuts are justified, that certain rights cannot be extended, and that, therefore, before taking such measures, there are other political decisions to be made so that, ultimately, public money is destined for what really matters to the whole of the citizenry: the Basque system of social protection, RGI, AES, the state of well-being, education, health. There are resources; what is being done is to allocate them to what really matters to the whole citizenry. That is why, although we have been recommended from the Basque Nationalist group that we could withdraw this initiative, because the adviser who made these statements is no longer here, we think that, unless something else is said, this is the position of the department and it is the position of the Basque Government. And we want this Parliament to say that it does not agree at all with that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u71	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u72	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The discussion which Mr. Maneero brings in this day is true, that we think ourselves to be carried beyond the sentences given by a concrete chief of the department at any particular moment. It is not enough to condemn what M. Aburtus has said, because it was done at his own moment, to go beyond thought. And the same consequence is our correction. Let's take the subject as a whole, let's discuss it honestly. It is not necessary to ask, in our opinion, what system of taxes we need to maintain the expense of submission, but what system of tax-systems we need to maintain together all public policies. Of course, if we want to build a society based on the state of well-being, and to have an effective and intelligent network institution that will be able to respond to the wants of the community, if it is our goal. And that's where the discussion is. Legealdi Honetako zerga-politikako lehen monografikoan bertan esan nuen: "The first thing we must ask ourselves is which country we want, which society we want, what public services we want, in short what welfare we want for our citizens, and from there build a tax system that feeds and sustains it, a progressive, equitable and solidarity system". Hauek izan ziren nire hitzak. But what's put on the table again today is participations, laces, and old recipes, made from a mistaken point of view. Does the investments made in worthy and universal care balance public affairs? No, we don't say it, not at all. Is the investment today enough to guarantee the social rights of all the citizens? No, not at all. The social service euscal system needs more money, which we have defended over and over and over and over. The chief physician proposed an advantage. But what kind of tax? What kind of money? On the payroll or on the capital? There are many questions that never answer those who propose such proposals. Or what is worse, one day the chief physician puts on the table a new tax, or a torrent, to the enlargement of money; the next day the President places the necessity of reflection on the appetite of the attorney; and the last thing is to abolish a tax from both of us. They publish the measures in the opposite sense, which in theory at least are the same end. Today, Mr. Maneiro proposes to us, on his eternal course, how to get money. But, Mr. Maniero, you yourself know that your proposal hides another great goal: The choice of your party to centralize more and more the power of the state. We will always defend that the administrations ought to manage their expense with more severity, and to establish their preponderances plainly. But it is clear that in order to proceed this way we must take steps in order to regulate the whole system of taxation and to acquire all tools which are not in the hands of the institutions of the Basque Country. And that's what we're asking you for, because this is the way, to define the system of taxing a society that always supports social rights. Because we clearly see that economic policies are effective for social expense investment, so that the collective welfare can be helped, the economy can be activated and the work is produced. We will by no means accept excuses, which are, alas, the last time we have heard them, and it seems that some parties are seeking these pretexts, in order to make the restrictions which they really wish to make. Before this we keep our position, which we expressed in our proposal, and which we express: With an integrated tax-reform, for answer to all public policies, and the acquisition of all the tools of the entire tax system for the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mr. Damborena, representing the Basque Potion Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. We too were surprised in his day by the statements not only of Mr Aburto, but of other members of the Government, and that is why in his day we also made the initiatives we made. And, of course, we were very surprised, as we were also surprised by the Bildu amendment. And I say that we were very surprised because it is precisely in this country that taxes have been raised to all citizens to guarantee the state of social welfare, and hence the proposals that Bildu approved with the Socialist Party in Gipuzkoa, and then the PNV and PSOE pact, to which we join, trying to reduce to small incomes the increase that they were proposed. I mean, theoretically, this has already been done here, and that's why that reform was made and that's why taxes were raised. That is why it is not very understandable that the Government or someone from the Government or from the opposition who has approved these tax increases are considering creating new taxes for the same, because either the tax increase was a lie, or something does not add up. And what does not fit here, in this government and in this administration, is that everyone here is thinking about how we charge citizens more and how citizens pay more taxes, but apparently no one can think about how we manage better or how we spend less and give more services to citizens. And I will explain myself, because, since we are talking about social welfare, because, finally, Mr Aburto, who proposed that, is not precisely the champion of management, is not precisely the champion of public money control. And by their own data and figures it is clear that a lot of money could have been saved in the GIR and applied to other things. And here you don't have to charge anyone any more; there was already money. And then we have another proposal by the end of the afternoon, another brilliant management of the same former advisor, with which the labour inspectors have suddenly been reduced to half. Now, that's right, this government when it comes to spending cuts, where has it applied them? As far as citizens are concerned: aid to families, aid to reconcile family and working life... But, however, their current expenditure has increased, as in this budget we have now. This budget had more than EUR 400 million compared to last year. Where are they going, which we already raised here when we had the budget debate? At the current expenditure of the Government itself. Neither a measure to encourage employment, nor a measure to create wealth, nor a measure to benefit citizens in any area within the competence of this Government. And, therefore, we do agree with what Mr Maneiro is proposing, because, first of all, we have been putting forward it many years ago as well. We know that there are many places where you can... adjust it called one, cut it called another, manage it better called another. Use the term you want, but it is clear that this Government has many places where it can save a lot of money, and that citizens were not going to know that that management or act in which this Government spent money had disappeared. This is already a matter of decision and decision, and this government has been following the inertia for more than two years, that we continue to raise the debt, we continue to raise the debt, we cut services and citizens' rights, but our framework remains the same. And that is the problem of this government, which does not make decisions that benefit citizens. And when the approach is "we're going to raise more taxes," or "we're going to create more taxes," or "we're going to put more charges," then what he's saying is that that famous tax hike didn't work, at least for what he meant. Now, with the purpose here... The other day I said it here: if the purpose is good, then let's do it. Then it turns out that it is not for the purpose, but to finance other things, and obviously we are not for the work. We are for the work of fighting more tax fraud, yes, and all kinds of fraud. For us, it's just as much a fraud as any other, it doesn't matter who cheats, because in the end it's our money, the citizens' money, and that's what the government has to answer for in this case. We will therefore vote in favour of Mr Maneiro's proposal, which seems perfectly reasonable to us. And he said he did not understand Bildu's amendment because he did not understand the first point. Because, of course, let us be told that a comprehensive tax reform must be put in place that must be based on equity, that different incomes pay the same, and progressive, that the one with the most pays the most... I thought that was already there, that was already there... Doesn't Gipuzkoa have any? Listen, you forgive me. Well, look, where we've supported or voted some tax, that's what happens. That happens in Spain, that happens in Bizkaia, that happens in Álava and, with forgiveness, happens in Gipuzkoa. You will be able to climb it more or lower it more, but, as far as I recall, you have already raised what you have raised. And then the second paragraph, "that the Basque Government be urged to take the necessary steps to acquire the tools that are not in the hands of the institutions, in order to get the competition and management to regulate the entire tax system"... I don't know any place in the world that has the fiscal powers that we have today. None. No lander, no federal state, no confederal state... I don't know any. Man, an independent state does. But if your approach is that, then tell us "No, it's that we want independence," okay, and we save ourselves the debate, because we no longer talk about social welfare or tax increases. That is why I tell you that I did not understand your proposal very well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u75	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr Pricee, the Basque Socialist representer of the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u76	President, ladies and gentlemen. UPyD, Mr Maneiro, today brings us a GNP that could be called preventive. It is about avoiding danger, penosity and toxicity. That is why it is a PNL that is going to be positioned on statements by someone who is no longer a counselor, who I do not know if the statements have remained in the place where the counselor is now, or if the Vaco Government intends to resurrect them. But, well, let's say in principle that there have been no symptoms of wanting to resurrect those statements and what they mean politically, and that is why we are dealing with an absolutely preventive GNP. We are going to vote in favour because, apart from being preventive, we agree with what is being done. That there is no specific tax to address a social policy in this case, such as dependency, we agree. And that is why, the act of testimony that we can do in this Parliament so that this does not happen, we will not deprive ourselves of doing so. In any case, approximately a year and a half ago, a tax reform was proposed. There was a parliamentary debate. In that tax reform it could have been raised by some group that had a specific tax for a specific social policy. No one raised it either. Therefore, I do not know to what extent these statements are very thoughtful, very assumed, statements that are part of a group's political ideal. I don't know. But, in any case, since we are here and it is part of the agenda, we will do our work, we will respond, and we will say those things that seem appropriate to us. Today's plenary, the plenary of this Parliament, has begun with a first point, which is that of tax fraud. We have talked about billions of euros defrauded by fiscal engineering, socially defrauded by the whole of European citizenship, squandered. And, indeed, when it comes to where public services can be paid for, it is very clear: with taxation. With decent taxation, with legal taxation, with taxation approved by law, and not through engineering, traps, a la carte taxation, or any other device such as that used by them from Luxembourg or from other countries that are in a fiscal paradise situation similar to that of Luxembourg. Therefore, there are resources. The public can be paid. Mr. Damborenea, the public can be paid, the public has resources. What happens is that there are some who are taking it, and that there are not yet enough instruments for those who are taking it to have to give it back and they cannot take it any more. In conclusion, there are public resources, you have to take them where they are. With our current legislation, you can go after them. We have sufficient taxation to have sufficient resources and to take sufficient account of all the social policies that are being implemented, and also to recompose those cuts, co-payments and replenishments that have been unjustly implemented. And we will therefore support Mr Maneiro's GNP.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u77	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u78	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr. Maniro, if the people would like you to do what you say, to reduce the games that are to encourage and encourage them to resist, to diminish what is for EIB, and people would give it toUPyD, and they gave the vote toUPyD with 210,000 people, and that project which appears in that budget and Eugal Party, they gave it to 385,000 people. The proposition as well as you has two sections, one paragraph, but the section contains two. The second time you say: "For it would be necessary to take so many measures which remain unexpressed before an enterprise like this could be introduced, as to deprive us of the sterile public expense in our institutional structure and public sector, to determine the prerogatives of public use, and to struggle with more firmly against the prosecutor." We believe that this is not the most important part of the proposition of the law; Esta nos la partancial de la propuesta, pero la inclue believed en la propositionion. And, of course, our attitude in this sense is quite contrary. The rest, as has often been said, is the prosecutor's fault that several Basque institutions are working together now and then, and in recent years, more measures have been taken in this sense, for the fun has been made clear. And you said this could be an excuse for reduction, and even as you know, over 70% of this budget is a social expenditure, health expenses, and education expenses. This fun has taken several measures to avoid any expense that's not effective. These measures that you propose, as you know – because we have told you once and a thousand times and explained them to you with concrete data – have been adopted by the Basque Government. They have been adopted by the Basque Government. You would like to see some of the specific items that you have no place in your ideological project, but that your ideological project does not have the protection and protection of society. It is not that Basque society has chosen to be the one to be executed. So the games you are proposing are good for me to propose, because it is part of your ideological project, but it is not that of this Basque Government. But inefficient games have already been taken and have been reduced. On the other hand, you mention the statements made in the first section of the legal proposal when Aburtok was chief of the department. Then, when he was in charge of the Basque affairs of society, the chief physician of the Aburtos made a not particular proposal, he made a few reflections on the future in height. And he himself, Aburto, in response to a question made in a pliant of this Chamber, plainly told you. To reflect is good in our opinion, that when we are obliged to make decisions, we may be prepared for deep deliberations. We believe that all variables must be examined. And that's what he had to say. When he made speeches, Aburto's chief concern was this: To guarantee all the social services of the Basque population to represent a future. And on the horizon of population ageing and the consequent increase in dependency situations, much greater public resources will be required than the current ones. And that Aborto, with the information he has, knows him very well, and what he did was pose a reflection, and alternatives that in his opinion would be possible. Aborto said in particular: "Another challenge to the future of social policies is that of financing the system for the future." He insisted, "to the future." And in that future I am not talking about today or this year or next year. I'm talking about a future of when those of us who belong to the baby boom generation get that dependency situation. We must reflect and think about this situation that we all know so well, perhaps not with the depth that Aborto, for the data he has, can know. He spoke of the future, not of the times now. On the other hand, as has been said here, a deep form of tribute has now been admitted to Euscadin, which has been admitted into the principal assemblies of the three countries. And when that reform was done, we were looking for stability. So this is not the time to make changes. We have approved this far-reaching reform in the general councils of the historic territories, which has been mentioned above, with the aim of stability. Therefore, this is not the time to make any changes in this area, nor is this the place, if any, where appropriate, to do so. But all the proposals and reflections that are made must be considered in the relevant area of competence, analysed their legal viability. And at a time when the need for another tax reform should be re-examined, negotiations should be made to achieve a broad political consensus, as has the tax reform that has now been carried out. This would enable it to be supported over time. We're not locked up at all. We think all the options should be considered. We will abstain because now that we have just adopted this reform, as we said, we believe that this is not the right time, nor is this the right time, but we insist that it is absolutely interesting to reflect on this type of reform, so that when we have to make the right decisions, the reflection has been done exhaustively, with great rigour, with responsibility, and without demagogy and populism, which is why this debate is taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u80	Yes, thank you, President. Thanks to the groups that have shown their support for this initiative, and also thanks to the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group for allowing me to intervene to defend this initiative, despite the fact that we only received more than twenty thousand and that I am only one between seventy-five parliamentarians. By the way, UPyD represents the same percentage in this House as that represented by the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies, and that is not why the initiatives are more or less respectable. I say because you have the custom of saying that UPyD is only one, that we only have twenty-two thousand votes, and I don't know how many more things. I believe that the important thing is to talk about the issue, but, in any case, with the position of the Basque Nationalist Party, to decide to abstain from this UPyD initiative, the conclusion that we come to is that the Basque Nationalist Party says that it does not agree with those statements and that proposal of the previous councillor, with which let us say that it is good news, because this initiative will come forward. Let's see, I do not consider myself an ace of politics, but I believe that Mr Aborto's statements were not mere statements or mere reflections on the future or something like that. It is a strategy, it is the usual strategy carried out by those political parties and governments that want to justify the social cuts they have promoted, or that want to justify future social cuts, or that want to justify the refusal to take into consideration certain new subjective rights that this House can approve. I do not think they are, therefore, mere statements or reflections. It is a strategy to try to sell to the citizen that idea he said before, that there is not enough money and, therefore, the social cuts are justified. Is this a preventive initiative? Yeah. And it is an initiative to denounce, to say that we do not agree either with those statements or with that specific proposal or with that strategy of the Basque Government. I believe that most of the initiatives presented in this House are of a preventive nature, in order to urge the government not to do a certain thing that is suspected can be done. Therefore, yes, it is of a preventive nature, but it is also of a denunciation. Indeed, there was a tax reform as a result of which there was an increase in taxes to most citizens. That tax reform has already been taken into consideration, it has already been approved, and even we felt good about it. Not only did it seem good to us, but it seemed even short to us. And there are certain fiscal reforms that are still pending, but what we are not willing to assume or give up today is that the government is trying to sell us the idea that we need to increase taxes on citizens in order to sustain the welfare state. That's a lie, it's fake. There is no need to increase taxes on citizenship to support the welfare state. It's fake. And that was the strategy of the Government, that was the idea of the counselor when he raised that idea. It was not a personal reflection; it was a strategy: "We must raise taxes because, otherwise, we will not be able to sustain the welfare state." And we do not agree at all, and it seems that the Basque Nationalist Party does not agree either. Was the Councilman planning to start a debate so that a tax reform that would lead to an increase in taxes could take place as soon as possible? No, I didn't mean that either. In fact, the Basque Nationalist Party refused with its fingernails and teeth to push forward the latest fiscal reform. I didn't mean to raise taxes. He intended the other: he intended to give the impression that there is no money and that, therefore, there are certain social cuts that are justified and new ones can occur. That's the idea, and that's why it doesn't seem like a minor issue to me, but it does seem to me to be a relevant issue. And in recent times certain political representatives who are in favour of social cuts come to tell us every day, at all times, "We must reflect on the welfare state and whether it is actually viable". And why not reflect on other kinds of issues that we put on the table? Why don't you think about it? Why not reflect on fat in the Administration, which continues to exist today? Why does it not reflect on language policy, which costs us EUR 115 million per year, whether or not there is a crisis? Why not reflect on what EITB costs us and what is the value of the 115 million euros per year, or of the Basque delegations, or of the institutional framework, or of the corporate public sector? Why does it not reflect on support for professional sport, which also costs us a great deal of money? Isn't that all you have to think about? Above all that is what we need to think about, above all that, and that is what we are proposing. Therefore, what the counselor put forward we do not share. Another type of measure must be promoted to save us money and, of course, to sustain the welfare state, because it is the priority. That was the approach of our initiative. Thank you, moreover, to the groups that are going to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u81	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The EH Group must not speak a word. Assistant Basque Group, Mr Damborenea. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u82	Yes, very briefly from the seat. To say that Mr Aburto's reflection was in the future, but recently approved the rise in taxes in this country to guarantee those social services that he was proposing. And we don't care if we talk about surcharges, new taxes, or they want to call it what they want to call it: we know that in the end they always pay the same, that it is the citizens on foot and those who don't disappoint. And every time you ask for someone in this country, or outside this country, that you have to put a surcharge, that the richest people are going to pay, how about, I don't know what... well, we already know that that's a lie and that's not the case, that we're always the same people that we pay in this country. And, therefore, as I said before, this government does not know if it has a lot of fat in many places, of course michelins a few, and it could do some thinning of expenditure, that citizens if it is suppressed or reduced do not find out, because it does not affect them, because it really does not provide any service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u83	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialist, Mr Pricee mustn't speak a word... Finally, the Eucariats represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u84	With your permission, from the seat. When I remind you what support your party has, I am not saying that the initiative is not respectable. Not at all. And I think we have had this debate more often. It's very respectable, but it's good to remind you what support you have. Of course, all I do is remind you of the support your ideological project has. Then, the reasonable thing is that the one that people vote mostly is the one that is executed. "It's a strategy," he said. It's no strategy at all. To me what makes me so much grace, Mr Maneiro, is that, having been here the Aburto advisor, explaining himself what he said and making it very clear, you come here to act as an interpreter of Aburto, to tell us that what he said is not what he said, and to tell us what he actually meant. But look, we stayed with what Aburto said, which are some reflections in the future, that we should go around them a few times, and, of course, that in no case was a concrete proposal to be implemented immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. When we're done arguing, we'll vote for the Misto, like theUPD team. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the parties are 26; the opponents are 21; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 27. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u86	So it's accepted. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly introduce this initiative. I warn you not to go too far, because we want to do it fast. We have a broad agreement, and therefore the important thing is the agreement and not what we are going to say in this case. But I do want to focus the initiative and say that it refers to the need to implement energy saving systems in public administration and public sector facilities and buildings. Ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree that the cleanest energy, the most economical energy, is not consumed. This motivates us to present this initiative by emphasizing the need to implement measures and systems that contribute to reducing energy consumption, measures that contribute to reducing energy costs, applying and introducing more efficient technologies, measures to reduce energy dependence and also to reduce environmental impact. Therefore, this is the focus of our initiative. And we also want to mention the provisions and guidelines of the European Union, the European directive 2010, which sets out the objectives and proposes the measures that the Member States must implement in order to achieve the 2020 objective, and in this regard we must contribute the Autonomous Community in this case, also the Spanish State and the rest of the European Union. And we have managed, with the input of the various groups and also the incorporation of some demands that we made to the government regarding dates, that the Basque Parliament urge the Basque Government to present at this session a decree on energy sustainability that includes the obligation to diagnose and audit energy consumption in the Basque public administration and its public sector, and to set out the objectives and actions to reduce energy consumption. And the second point of the agreement we have reached is that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, within one year, to present a law on energy sustainability for public administrations and their public sector in the context of the Basque Autonomous Community. It must be said that it is a law that was not on the timetable, but the Government has committed itself to bringing it, because it says it has advanced a job, and it seems to us to be an ambitious initiative, that we will be very careful, but at the outset we believe the Government's commitment and, therefore, we believe that it is a good initiative that will set out those measures and criteria that this Autonomous Community is going to implement or implement to contribute to the energy savings that the European Union demands of us. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u89	Yes, thank you, President. Energy sustainability must be understood as the rational use of energy, so that the development of future generations is not put at risk. Energy sustainability is the result of the balance between energy security, social equity and the reduction of environmental impact. Achieving that balance, which a priori might seem simple, requires above all great political will. Energy sustainability is necessary in the primary sector, in the industrial sector and in the service sector, as well as in households, and, of course, in public administrations. In this regard, Euskadi has taken different steps, such as the implementation and development of various programmes: the programme of aid for investments in energy efficiency in municipalities, or aid for energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in public buildings through contracts with energy service companies. All these programmes contribute to achieving the objectives set out in the Euskadi 2020 Energy Strategy. Among them, mainly 1 and 4 are basic to achieving energy sustainability, and are essentially based on energy savings and sustainability. As early as 2011, an almost identical measure was taken. The Basque Government approved a 20% reduction in energy consumption in fifty public buildings with energy consumption of more than EUR 200,000 per year. This was intended to be done with the cooperation of the Basque Energy Agency and the public body of the Department of Industry. Within this plan were included as possible units of action hospitals, outpatient clinics, buildings of the Basque Government, campus of the UPV, EITB, the academy of Arkaute, the building of the Ertzaintza of Erandio, police stations, institutes, museums, courts, rental housing promotions of the Basque Government. The first step included in this plan was the identification by means of energy diagnosis and audits of the potential for saving and installing renewable energy in these buildings. Although we certainly do not know the outcome of this plan, I believe it is clear that there is a clear will to achieve energy sustainability in all sectors, including, of course, the Basque public administration. We shared, we shared what was explained in the justification of the initiative on the need to implement a plan, preceded by a diagnosis and even energy audits, both to reduce consumption and to study the possible use of renewable energy. However, we considered that, without this prior diagnosis, it makes no sense to determine a concrete reduction percentage, and the right thing would be to talk about achieving the maximum possible savings percentage in terms of effectiveness. The same is true in determining which buildings should be included. Finally, why those with a consumption of more than 200,000. In our view, it should include all those in which consumption could be reduced without affecting their activity. That is why we have also considered it necessary to include in our amendment the work of raising awareness of the citizens and workers of the Basque public administration and its public sector about the importance of energy saving as part of an integral strategy in the search for energy sustainability. That is why our amendment, in which we proposed to urge the Government to push forward a plan aimed at the maximum possible energy savings in the Basque public administration and also in the public sector. And we said that the plan should consist of two phases. A first phase during which a diagnosis and audit of energy consumption would be carried out in the Administration and its public sector, which should be completed and submitted to Parliament by 30 June 2015, and a second phase of implementation and implementation of the measures contained in that plan. In any case, yes, we have come to a transactional, which I don't know if I believe too much. I hope that the energy sustainability law for public administrations and their public sector will actually be implemented, because what is proposed is not included in the legislative timetable. And we also know what has happened to the legislative timetable, which has been breached by a very high percentage. Many of the laws have not been introduced, others have been introduced late. That is why we are surprised that the Basque Nationalist Party proposed that the Government introduce an energy sustainability law and amend it. It gave the impression that, in view of the initiative put forward by the PP, the Basque Nationalist Party took that ace out of its sleeve and said, "Yes, we are going to introduce a law in these terms." Well, it is definitely proposed that an energy sustainability law be introduced for public administrations and their public sector. It's okay with us. We agree with what is reflected in that transactional, and we hope, logically, that it will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u90	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Rojo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u91	Thank you, President. From the seat, just to say that we will vote in favour of the compromise amendment that we have reached by all the signatory groups. And nothing, after what I said, I think there's nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u92	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Carro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. In a state like ours and in a country like ours, it is the great consumer of power, almost without any natural resources, and with great dependence on the outside, that is, saving and efficiency become our greatest useful resource. At the current juncture and in a country like ours, which is highly energy-consuming, without just natural resources and with a strong dependence on the outside, savings and efficiency become our greatest energy memory. The Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 provides the appropriate framework for achieving 20% energy savings by 2020, setting minimum requirements that can be improved by Member States. The new regulation from the European Union obliges the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community to play, as so many times in the past, a pioneering role in the application of innovative solutions for saving, energy efficiency and the promotion of competitive renewable energies. In this line, and coinciding with the government programme in its commitment to employment and people, we find the goal of energy efficiency and saving, on the axis of an energy strategy for renewable energy and on the initiative of enhancing energy savings and efficiency in buildings and homes, through initiatives aimed at the energy rehabilitation of existing buildings, supporting the extension of energy-efficient buildings and raising awareness of responsible energy consumption to citizens in general. In this context, the Administration of the Autonomous Community has adopted Decree 226/2014 regulating the certification of the energy efficiency of buildings, as well as the order regulating the control and registration of energy efficiency certificates. It is therefore appropriate in this piloting work to continue to set an example as a public administration in savings, energy efficiency and the promotion of competitive renewable energies, and in this way we have reached a compromise agreement for the presentation of this decree that can set an example for the rest of the public administrations of the Basque Country. And logically, Mr Maneiro, it would not be possible, if that sustainability law has not been worked out, to take the approach we have taken. So, that sustainability law approach is made because the best, and logically regulated way to transfer this sustainability work to the rest of public administrations is through this law, and we believe it is efficient and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u94	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Passing on the side of the teams that have no corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Master Maeztu, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, like all those who have spoken before me, the Basque Country is in favour of the use of my zeal and my self-loved savings in the buildings of public administration, for the application of my neurostic and mygetic savings. But first we must make a distinction, or a first distinction. Mysterious efficiency and savings are of no use if they don't limit the general energy consumption. I mean the key is not to replace a fluorescent with a led, or to give 10 fluorescent power with four kilometres, and now to use these four kilovacies with a power to provide 30 led devices, but to reduce consumption generally. And we do not see that in this middle course there is any such thing. So, the key for us here is not about the consumption of an efficient form, but less and less of energy when you consume it. And then a second shade, and I announce that we will abstain from this point. We can't sign an initiative for energy science with aspects that encourage energy spirit, the Popular Party and the Euncipian Party. After all, what you're doing with this initiative is the responsibility of a non-equivocative reform to transfer to individuals, people, people, or in this case public administration, and the responsibility for us in our modern neurotic model, which is not at all efficient. Because the form of energy acknowledged in the Spanish state is intended to perpetuate the most ancient model today, which is not efficient, I should say more, quite contrary. The centralized model now, namely, that which uses the gigantic energy production areas and the only gigantic and only transportation line is not efficient or efficient. Today, according to the calculated data, in this centralized model, transport and later distribution, 10 percent of the generated energy is lost. That's no efficient thing, because thousands of kilovatres are lost in that transport. More and more distant energy production from energy consumption, that's what's doing the most energetic model today. And the culture that protects reforms, PP and PNV, insists on continuing that model which is not centralized, and is not efficient, inasmuch as it repels the retrograde energy which enables a separate pattern. In the past year, the fabulous Reformation, the most effective and efficient production of energy, or because it destroys self-consumption, or is seriously checked, a special tax is established, known as pepathetic de regsildo. So, as I said before, we can't protect the Popular Party and the Jest Party of the Eusco, that is to say, the sects that have protected the neurontic reform, this initiative that they sign in the energy area. In the administration, it's just because it's pure makeup for us at this moment, so long as the energy model doesn't change its roots and sets back and separate production within the sphere of the electric energy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing it to the turn of the answers, the representative of the Basque Potula Group, lópez won't speak a word... Mr. Maneiro doesn't speak a word. The Socialist doesn't speak a word. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u97	Hello, very brief. Sadly, what I think has hurt you is that this has not come out of you, because, come on, that in moving on in energy efficiency and in this you abstain, because it says "No, it is that it is signed by the PNV and the PP"... Well, welcome to this world, sir! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u98	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u99	Yeah, no crazy races to the stand. Simply to say that we do not vote for this amendment, not because it is signed by the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, but because it is signed by the two parties that have approved the energy reform, that is, those who are approving the current energy model in the Spanish State. There is a paradox: you approve here a measure for energy efficiency and saving in public buildings, but at the same time, with the energy reform that you voted for in Madrid, you prevent those buildings from having plaques, from being self-consumption, and that what is left can go to the network, which is the most efficient thing that exists right now. And no, because they've put in a specific tax, the back-up toll, so they can do that. That is what you have just signed: in favour of efficiency, and against self-consumption.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u100	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Now that he's in a state of discussion, we'll vote for the popular Basques, the UPyD, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-line corrections that have been signed by Eukébertarians. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters of 52; rivals, 0; white, 0; abstations, 21. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u101	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u102	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll follow the entire meeting. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposition of the law-making by the Socialists, concerning the strength of the laborers. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a proposal. Mrs Sánchez, the Basque Socialist represents the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u103	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to talk again about workers without guarantees in their rights. Let's talk about job fraud, fake self-employment, submerged employment and abusive days. Let us talk about all those violations that are committed against labour rights and that are possible not only because there are those who do not consider the dignity of those who take their businesses forward, but also because of the lack of sufficient administrative resources to prevent it. It is a fraud that occurs and that we never hear of talking to some who have this word in their mouths to restrict rights. And it is a fraud that we want to tackle without excluding anyone, but only by strengthening the control mechanisms. This is what we are talking about when we propose today not only to fill existing vacancies, but also a negotiation by the Basque Government with the Government of Spain to increase the service. This is what we are talking about with this proposal, which is an extension of what we adopted three months ago in this House, of what we agreed was necessary to put on the wall in the face of labour abuse, of what that government committed to now three months ago and that it has failed once again. Because, yes, on 7 November, at the request of my group, we agreed on a specific plan to strengthen the labour inspection, with a deadline (to be done in three months) and with a goal: to reduce to the maximum the rates of precariousness at work and irregularities in recruitment. And this new failure is nothing more than the finding of a recurring argument already in recent sessions: this government does not understand why there are public employees. There is a great need to strengthen the labour inspection. At this time of crisis and precariousness, such inspectors must ensure compliance with existing regulations, and that is why vacancies must be filled as soon as possible. But it is also equally important to approve, as soon as possible, from the Public Service, the extension of the employment relationship to six more jobs in jobs of labour inspectors, as promised in this plenary session by the previous Councillor for Employment and Social Policy, Mr Juan Mari Aburto, on 28 November last year. The more effective we are, the better the results obtained from the Labour Inspectorate. The more inspectors, the more surveillance against offenders. He said that this initiative is a continuation of what has already been agreed in the monograph on combating unemployment and poverty, but before today, on 28 November, I asked the Councillor for Employment and Social Policy, Mr Aburto, how he was going to cover all the places of inspectors that existed at the time of the transfer, that is, the photo taken on 1 January 2012. As of that date, six vacancies had remained. There were therefore six fewer places, for retirements and transfers, in the staffing of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Since then, only one has been covered per commission of services, and no competition has been called for covering the remaining five. We know perfectly well that these vacancies cannot be covered autonomously by our Administration. We know that they can only be covered by inclusion in national competitions. But we also know that their inclusion in public competition is to be requested annually by the Basque Government from the Directorate-General of the Labour Inspectorate of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, as indicated in Annex 6 to the Supplementary Agreement 1 of the Transfer Agreement to the Basque Autonomous Community of the Labour Inspectorate, which refers to income and job provision. We know this, and we know that a year has been lost, because from the approval of the employment relationship at the end of 2013 to date the Basque Government has not requested the inclusion of those vacancies to be filled in jobs of labour inspectors in the Basque Autonomous Community in competitions. The Basque Government has not yet managed to get Madrid to take out the competition that allows us to cover the necessary human resources in the Basque Country to fight against labour fraud. Do not abandon your responsibility as a watchdog of workers' conditions, and do not abandon your powers of self-government. We can't waste any more time. That call is vital. It is vital to monitor the conditions under which people work in Euskadi, and it is vital to prevent fraud. And, since we can't wait any longer, we want Madrid to be asked to hold the competition in which the five vacancies are currently filled, and also to be asked to fill the free seats that can remain in the Basque Country after the competition for new movements of inspectors currently assigned to the Basque Government. And that these results are covered with the inspectors who had requested these destinations. This can be requested from the Directorate-General of the Labour Inspectorate, and if requested, it will be done. This is the only way to ensure that there are no new vacancies following the competition for new movements of inspectors now destined in our community, who can be transferred to existing places in the rest of Spain, including Catalonia, since the Labour Inspectorate is a national body but is transferred only in two communities: in the Basque Country and Catalonia. But now we should go beyond that. The Basque Socialists want the Basque Government to defend self-government with facts; we want the Department of Employment and Social Policy to make an effort to overcome the number of places of inspectors transferred, because it is of vital importance to achieve the best results of the work of the Labour Inspectorate, and also to fulfil the aforementioned mandate of 7 November of this Parliament, so that this Government will already draw up the committed specific plan for the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, providing it with sufficient human and material resources aimed at combating submerged employment, abusive days, false autonomous days and any other kind of violation of legality. For the time being, the agreement of 7 November is not being complied with, as is currently the announcement of the Aburto councillor on 28 November, for which he promised an extension of six more places to be covered by new commissions of service, or, if necessary, to wait for new competitions, but which must be approved by the Public Service of the Basque Government on a prior basis in order for this to be possible. To date, these positions have not yet been approved to expand the number of labour inspectors over the number of existing positions at the time of transfer. And for that, the Basque Government does have the power. And it is still pending that the Public Service be given that right to carry out this enlargement. That is why my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, have tabled this proposal for a law, so that, first of all, the Basque Government takes into account, in the plan to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, at least all the existing places in the employment relationship of the Labour Inspectorate and the relevant negotiations are carried out with the Government of Spain so that, as soon as possible, the invitation to tender for the coverage of the current vacancies will be held. But also, secondly, that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to extend the number of places currently available in the labour inspectorate's job relationship, to corresponding posts, logically, to work inspectors, in order to be able to achieve better results in the objectives assigned to the work of the inspectorate, so that this will lead to better pursuit and better fight against submerged employment, abusive days, false self-employed days and any other violation of legality. Mr. Toña, your predecessor has left this pending in your portfolio within areas that affect your management. Socialists want you to act. There are many challenges, but it has tremendously sensitive tasks. Working for employment is to promote conditions for new opportunities, and it is also to ensure that no one takes advantage of the consequences of this long crisis to abuse the conditions under which they work. We need all the resources we can get. We ask you to set them up, strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, cover the vacancies on the one hand, and negotiate to increase the places, and thus provide a full service to the workers. Make use of all your skills, all your self-government and all your negotiating capacity. Only one amendment has been tabled to this initiative in its entirety by the EH Bildu Group. My group has preferred to maintain the initiative presented at an early stage, so as not to distort it. Because, first of all, an extension of a third was called for, which I believe is already included in the proposal we are making, and, secondly, the transfer of social security, which was the only thing I was doing to distort what is the aim and purpose of this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, this non-law proposal is very important. That is why I call on all the parliamentary groups in the House to vote in favour of it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u104	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Zulaika, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u105	Thank you, ma'am, and good afternoon to all. No one can say that there hasn't been any trafficking in all parts, either private or public. The Prefect has spread out to all sectors and collectives. They're giving a terrible situation in the works and in some companies. Every day, when we read the press, or listen to the radio, we hear that the contract of labor, or the violation of the rules of work, has occurred in some kind of business conflict or labor. And these are cases which are reported, though they are not all seen. Some of these cases have been brought into this parliament, for example, the business of workers working in works for the construction of the St. Mames football field, the quarrels of labour and labor contract in various companies, or the difficulties which are committed in the works of a high-speed train. But these unfortunate cases have not been isolated. In what enterprises, indeed, slavery is established in various works. It's like a lie, but we've known shameful cases, such as making wages according to their origin. Although incredible, they've been given to this kind of thing. A company has fixed a salary on its workmen, whether they are Portuguese or local, and in the same work they have been given striking differences for the same work: According to the origin of a person, a few 12 euros and his colleague as Portuguese would collect 5 euros an hour. And though it be said before that prerogative affects all the collective, it more affects the weak collective, such as women, young men, and migrating persons. Although women are less likely to be employed in society, they suffer severe situations from labor. I'm not going to enter the temporary stages between women, or the crack between men and women. Some can neither claim minimal rights, because they are not exposed to public security, and especially to domestic workers, who are connected with the care and care of the house. In this exercise there is an immense state of slavery, which, after thousands of hours of labor, has been employed, is to collect the pay-makers, without any protection, and without any right at all. But the woman is not only a collective one who is most subject to the working-water, but she suffers a terrible evil: the attacks of sexual violence, which they employ. A lot of women don't know that protocols to be active in their enterprises should be activated in these cases. Many cases do not accuse labor from fear of loss, but because it does not seem so. Even the young suffer more and more predominance, but the conditions of labour are more and more premeditious, and independent of any contract of labor. In many companies, under the fashions of scholarships, or without interlocking or paying for extraordinary hours, they are the majority of the geographical phonery and it's a long list. It is a direct relation between the presence of the workers and the danger of being a labor accident, as well as that which has been accused by different unions in many. Therefore, to avoid the preadinent labour, and to be assured that the precepts of prevention are fulfilled, the inspection is essential to the making of preventive visits. I'm sure they'll pay more attention to this. It seemed important to me to explain this context, because it is necessary to understand the role of a work inspector, because it is one of the tools to prevent all this unjust, prepare, and dangerous circumstances. That's why the power of a work vision is of its own importance. Of all the functions of them the first and most important is the following: the precepts of law, rules of rule, and collective compacts, are to be kept and executed; and within it, the prevention of the organization, the organization of labour, and unions, of the duties of labour, and of labour, must be made provocatative and preventive. I mean, before there's a complaint or an accident, it's necessary to make inspections before an accident happens. And we know that such things are done, that visits are made of allegory, but we are taught that data will not be enough, that with the means of vision it is impossible to act in an active manner. After the transfer of Jurisdiction in January 2012, as has been shown by the speaker, the workers were transferred, but not before their jurisdiction. EH Collect does not question the work of the working inspectors at all. The inspectors' association himself accused him that there were fewer workers, and that the work he worked for the first three people is now done by a worker. On the 7th of November, between the resolutions we discussed in the discussion of poverty, the resolution was accepted: "The American asks you to do it in public as well as in private as in a country, in order to see that the underlying conditions of labor and of cultivation are filled with prevention, and therefore to conclude with need of labour, to strengthen the legality of the theatre, and to increase the means of building as far as financial action is concerned." As I have said, the resolution was accepted, and we agreed to the resolution of the Socialist Group, as we are discussing today. We must, therefore, say that we agree with the purpose of another legal proposition, but we think there is a difference between the solutions we see, and what the Socialist Group proposes, and thus we state in our corrections. At the first point, we ask that in a year's time we increase a third of the number of workers for the inspection of work. We were generous at this point when we asked for a year and a third. Maybe someone would think a third is a few. In this case, we should not refuse, if any one should propose to increase this number, but in any case we believe that, in any case, the number of the workers now present must increase, because we believe that the charge of labour is too great, the workers themselves have accused him of it. In the second place, we demand that in six months' time the entire management of social security may be integrated into the whole system of public protection, design the course, and present it in the legislature, taking all the rights and intervals necessary for that purpose. The solution will be that the Euscala system is integrating a public system, not only as far as a work inspection, but as a whole the whole system of socialization, in order to change the entire development system, to build a more accurate system. In six months, we're asking you to review the career sheet. As for what the Socialists propose, at the first point, when asked as soon as possible, we think it may be very large for the time being. So we see it better to define it. And so it is with the second point. When it is required to increase the employments, perhaps with more than a third, it will not suffice to face all charges, and above all to make a preventive inspection, but the proposition of PSE appears to us to be very extensive. That's why we believe that our corrections open the way to keep the problem from coming to the bottom. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u107	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We shall vote in favour of the initiative put forward by the Socialist Group. We would like to analyse or explain the situation of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in the Basque Country. The situation in which it is located is the result of a mistransfer and mismanagement of the service that continues to this day; from the moment when the transfer took place to this day. In 2012, eighteen active inspectors were transferred to Bizkaia, ten to Gipuzkoa and six to Álava. Before the transfer, when the inspection was state, there were twenty-four inspectors in Bizkaia, fourteen in Gipuzkoa and seven in Alava. That is, the transfer itself, in some way, undermined the personnel dedicated to this matter. The organizational structure was also reduced to an absolute minimum, one head per historical territory. Once the transfer had been carried out, all kinds of problems had been raised by the Department of Public Service and also by the State. Firstly, the RPT was not approved, and the State considered that, since there was no definitive destination level for the places, they could not compete, although they did go out in Catalonia, a community that was in the same situation as Euskadi. Secondly, as an alternative solution, service commissions were proposed to bring in staff who are in other autonomous communities, waiting to be able to access a place here. However, the Government's Department of Public Service refused, arguing that without the approved TPR, service commissions could not be granted. But what is really serious is that when the Government changes, it turns out that the Department of Public Service says that the places can be filled by commissions of service. Meanwhile, among inspectors who go to national competitions, one who retires, maternity leave, etc., the result is that thirteen inspectors are currently working in Bizkaia, six in Gipuzkoa and four in Alava. All this was combined with the fact that, in addition, they intended to abolish the inspectors'offices in Gipuzkoa, taking advantage of the change in the location of the inspection. In November 2014, three months ago, the association of inspectors issued a strong press release in which it said: "In February 2012, we denounced the improvisation, disconcertingness and lack of coordination and organization when making the transfer to Euskadi. We have continued to do our job in the best possible way. The current officials of the Basque Government, after approving the employment relationship at the end of 2013, seem to have already done everything they had to do, and are de facto dismantling the Labour Inspectorate in the Basque Country. "Before the transfer, in Bizkaia there were twenty-four active inspectors dedicated to matters of competence of the Autonomous Community, in Gipuzkoa fourteen, and in Álava, seven. Eighteen were transferred to Bizkaia, ten to Gipuzkoa and six to Alava. Today, and without this government having done anything to prevent it, Bizkaia is going to stay with thirteen inspectors, Gipuzkoa with six, and Álava with four." He said this press release: "It is a real organizational disaster that is directly attributable to the highest officials of this Government, who are unable to maintain a minimum management at a time of maximum social conflict, where we are constantly required to intervene quickly and of such a magnitude that it is totally impossible to assume, both because of the absence of troops and because of the absence of a minimum organizational framework". The press release also said: "The last barrage of this Government has been to decide that the Labour and Social Security inspectors of the Basque Country do not need offices to carry out our work. Specifically, it has been decided that the inspection of Gipuzkoa should be placed in the premises of the territorial delegation in a fully open and open space. Even the head of territorial inspection will not have an office. In this situation, it is clear that the necessary confidentiality and confidentiality cannot be guaranteed. They want workers, employers, trade unions and citizens in general to appear before inspectors in an area open to the public, providing documents and evidence that in most cases are protected by the Data Protection Act. This press release continued: "It appears that the head of this troupe is the Department of Finance and Finance, which has ignored each and every explanation and request from the Department of Employment and the Sub-Directorate of the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Country. "The result is the gradual and systematic dismantling of the Inspectorate of Labour and Social Security in the Basque Country, the only body competent to monitor and demand ex officio and imperative compliance with the rules of social order in the territory". And this press release continued and ended: "We have held multiple meetings with senior officials of this Government. We have seriously stalled the possibility of a total indefinite strike. The truth is that the collective is tired and tired." This is what the collective said just three months ago. The Gipuzkoa inspectors have been managed to have offices, as the advisor decided at the last minute that the new location of the Basque inspection would be at the same site as the state, which implies having offices. And that somehow the restructuring of the inspection was assumed as a government commitment. Anyway, a little improvement, a little step in the right direction. According to the association itself, the most serious problems affecting the transferred inspection today are the following: lack of personnel in all the territories, with a particularly serious situation in Álava and Bizkaia; the national competition for transfers has not just been convened, nor are they granted commissions of services under a normal regime; lack of an intermediate executive structure, due to the transfer and the decisions of this Government itself, unable to correct the deficiencies of the transfer; lack of coherence and clarity in the relations with the State inspection and in the internal organization of each territorial inspection. In short, there is a lack of a clear model of decentralized labour inspection and a lack of a clear bet on labour inspection. This is the real situation you are in. The inspection was transferred for purely political reasons. You can recognize this sooner or later, but it is indeed so: for purely political reasons, where technical or legal criteria were not taken into account, the efficiency or otherwise of the transfer, or the real need for Euskadi to assume this service, nor the effects on the citizens, nor the model that was wanted. And here we are and we find the results for all known. Finally, a political will to dismantle and neutralize the inspection is linked to this, as the association itself has denounced. In conclusion, it is true that there is a great deal to be done, both in terms of the transfer produced and in terms of management and subsequent decision-making. Finally, this situation needs to be corrected urgently, as we are talking about an essential service to combat undeclared work, abusive days, false self-employment and other breaches of the law. That is why we will vote in favour of the Socialist initiative, waiting for it to be used for decisions to be taken as soon as possible, all the decisions that are necessary to turn around and correct this very serious situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u108	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Ruiz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is going to vote in favour of the Socialist Party's non-legislative proposal, and it seems that Mrs Sánchez's initiative is going to attract majority support, which I understand is that, in terms of work, which is the great concern and the great priority of the Basques, it is something important, and it is more valuable if it is possible, apart from the consensus itself, which is what it is about. Inspecting the work to avoid – other spokespersons have recalled – the submerged employment, the abusive days, the labor picarescs, the misrepresentation of the work of the self-employed, the violation of the law, are functions that must count on the full attention of the Basque Government, and it does not seem at the moment to be the case, according to the statements that Mr Maneiro has read to us, of the Association of Labour and Social Security Inspectors of the Basque Country. Therefore, to be more diligent, and more executive in the end, is what I understand that promotes this initiative, if I am not corrected by the proposer, because time is being wasted on those responsible for the Basque Government. Because since the transfer of competition, which took place on 1 January 2012, under the auspices of socialist governments in both Euskadi and Spain, the administrative bureaucracy, with the pejorative connotations never better brought up, places us in the current plenary, urging Parliament to strengthen the labour inspection. As we are going to vote in favour and we are going to agree with the Basque Nationalist Party in this vote, it is not now a question of putting the magnifying glass in the breaches of commitments, which Mrs Sánchez has also reminded us of, in the delays, in the poor, unfinished management of the previous Councillor for Employment and Social Affairs. Let us say that their strength has not been the inspections, nor the income guarantee income, nor the work income. The Basques, in the exercise of our self-government, do not benefit at all from rendering worse service to citizens by exercising our powers and getting worse off than when that transfer was not ours and we did not exercise it. They have been denounced for halving labour inspectors. They have been accused of a lack of planning, of dismantling the service since the beginning of the competition. We trust that, with the adoption of this initiative, we will give the final impetus to the labour inspectorate to have the human resources necessary to carry out its work, which would have to be at least as efficient as it was or could have been before the transfer of competence. A staff of decimated labour inspectors in the Basque Country cannot provide a service to the quality citizen, and this can also be considered a social cut. I wonder whether the Basque Government is going to be shielded from the administrative burden and dilute its parsimony in order to develop the new competition in an effective and appropriate way. If the Government were to be more diligent, we would not be discussing this issue today. It is a nationalist contradiction to claim and assume competencies, and then relax when exercising self-government. But it is not the time, since I have already announced my vote in favour, to focus on nuances, when what is going to be achieved is a high degree of consensus. I therefore reiterate my support for the non-legislative proposal, trusting that this will resolve the problems and shortcomings of the Labour Inspectorate in Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mr. Adarz, the Eubertarian, representing the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, good afternoon. We have as much discussion as the office of the Socialist Party on the strength of the service, introduced by Mrs Sánchez. We talked about the subject in the parliament, as the initiative itself says. A draft resolution called on the Government to draw up in three months a specific plan for the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate with sufficient human and material resources, aimed at combating underwater employment, abusive working days, false self-employed persons and any other kind of violation of the law, was adopted in the poverty profile plenary held on 7 November. Mrs Sánchez, as you well know, this government has been on top of this since it arrived, but to materialize it it was essential to approve an RPT. The competition was transferred on 1 January 2012, and at the end of the socialist legislature there were still no RPTs. The government of the lehendakari Urkullu has fulfilled its duty, and today there is an approved RPT. The Government has done it, has done it, and has not left anything behind. Mrs Sánchez, already in the full control of last December 1st, the Aburto Councillor gave full explanations on the strengthening of the Inspection Service. We're doing ours that day, and as the department is at work to strengthen the service, we didn't have any corrections to the other proposal as described, because we agree with what's required, and because it's working on that road, the Department of Eplegus and Societys. Therefore, Mrs Sánchez, whenever you urge the Basque Government to do something about what you are already working on, your initiative will obviously count on the support of our group. As Mr Aburto told him, the Department of Employment and Social Policy is working on a specific plan to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, based on two types of measures: on the one hand, measures to strengthen the workforce and, on the other, measures to strengthen the activity. With regard to staffing, it is exactly the same as that which was transferred to Euskadi in 2012, it has not been reduced at all. It is true that vacancies were created for retirement and transfers – you have already commented, some reference has been made, six – which, as you are well aware, when it comes to State-enabled staff, vacancies cannot be covered by the Basque Administration, and it is necessary to wait for the call for competitions for transfers or for re-entry places in the system of Labour Inspection and Social Security. Or request commissions of services from the State Administration and the Generalitat de Catalunya, in order to fill vacancies temporarily as long as the procedures for the definitive coverage of vacancies are articulated. And, as you also know, Mrs Sánchez, in order to be able to fill the vacancies in the so-called calls, it is necessary to have the RPT approved. This RPT of the Department of Employment and Social Policy was approved on 26 November 2013. With regard to the strengthening of activity, measures have been taken to increase planned interventions by formulating a coherent strategy for monitoring compliance with labour standards. In addition, specific campaigns are being designed and implemented within the poverty reduction strategy, such as the detection of temporary recruitment fraud and non-compliance with wages. This reinforcement plan was already being made in advance of the motion for a resolution adopted at the plenary session on poverty. The non-legislative proposal that we are debating today calls for a further step: it calls for negotiations with the Government of the State to hold competitions for the coverage of current vacancies and to expand the number of existing positions in the current RPT, including both aspects of the reinforcement plan. As you know, Mrs. Sánchez, in order to negotiate an agreement, at least two sides must show their will. In this case, state government and e-mails. Once the RPT has been approved, vacancies in the Inspection Service may be filled by the relevant call. I would like to stress that from the moment of the transfer the staffing table is maintained, although it is true, as has been said, that there are some vacancies. And once the RPT was approved, as I said, it would be possible to fill these posts with a call. According to the transfer agreement, the Basque Government may also convene a competition for transfers from the Inspection Service, but it has so far waited for such a call to be made by the Government of the State, since if it is carried out by the State it is more extensive. The Basque Government is very interested in making this call and so that the Inspection Service is equipped in the best conditions. To this end, in December he announced a draft call, with the intention of approving it in the first quarter of 2015. The Department of Police and Employments will not give up until they have all their stations provided. As for the second point of the legal initiative, the chief division of the Aburtos clearly explained it. Indeed, the Aburto Counsellor made it clear that the plan to strengthen the Inspection Service, in addition to the staffing reinforcement measures, also provides for those measures to strengthen the activity in order to improve the results assigned to the inspection work, as is also requested by the non-legislative proposal that we are discussing. It is also clear in his daily work that this Government is prepared to speak about the Government of the State, the State and all matters that would improve the functioning of its own powers. But I wonder: is the state government so willing to talk to the Basque government to improve the functioning of these powers? We doubt it. I also ask myself: Is the Government of the State so willing to talk about the competences contained in the Statute of Autonomy pending transfer? We doubt it even more. So we'll protect the illegal proposal. On the solution that you propose, Mrs Zulaika, on the Bildu amendment, and focusing on the second point, we would certainly also like to see the whole of social security competence already in Euskadi, but unfortunately it is not. Mrs Zulaika, you know that the rules in force must be respected, and at this point I am not going to give you examples of how you comply with the rules in force. Your amendment, Mrs Zulaika, that second point of your amendment is a toast to the sun. I wish the competition could be assumed that way! If it were that easy to get a competition, we wouldn't put on that ridiculous six-month period that you put on. We would have done it thirty-five years ago, four months and twenty-six days ago, the day after our Statute was approved. It has cost us and continues to cost us a lot of effort that the competences contained in the Statute of Autonomy of Euskadi (an organic law of the State systematically not complied with by this State)... , he said that it is very difficult for us to have the skills transferred to us. But, even if it is slower than we would like, much slower, this parliamentary group and the whole party that it represents here has been working always and everywhere we have been represented, has worked to get the pending transfers. Get them in the best way possible for the interests of Basque citizens. Not all groups, Mrs Zulaika, can say the same. Finally, we won't give up and we'll try to make progress even on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u112	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mrs. Sánchez is the representative of the Basque Socialist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u113	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Zulaika, EH Bildu wanted the Basque Government to increase the staff of the Labour Inspectorate by one third in one year, but I said in my first speech that this is in line with the proposal put forward in our non-legislative proposal. And I'm going to do the old woman's account quickly: if 105 jobs were transferred and there were thirty-six jobs in the Labour Inspectorate (nineteen in Bizkaia, ten in Gipuzkoa and six in Álava), in addition to the post of Deputy Inspector, there are thirty-seven. If this proposal is asking for the five vacancies to be filled right now, plus the six more that were promised by Mr Aburto, we are talking about eleven places, which covers one third of the places. And besides, I don't think we can wait a year. In your proposal you are saying that one year from now! It's just that what I'm saying is that we can't take another year. We've already lost the whole year! What are we gonna lose, this whole year again? No! No! What we propose is that you do it as soon as possible. To me, the one-year deadline seems silly to me. It's like losing the whole year again! So I do not think your proposal is correct. I think that the proposal that my group, the Socialist Group, has made in this area is much more correct. But I also mix the transfer of social security management, with all the skills, with all the resources, and I don't like totum revolutionutum. I've come here to talk about the needs of the Labour Inspectorate, and I don't have to mix it with the pending transfer of Social Security, because it's mixing the barbecues with the mermaids, and I don't like that. So, if I'm talking here about the Labour Inspectorate, there's an initiative from the Labour Inspectorate, and I don't like mixing it with anything else. Because, although the Labour Inspectorate has competence in the area of social security, one thing is the transfer of social security and another thing is the Labour Inspectorate, and we cannot mix them with the same initiative. On the other hand, Mr Maneiro, I have to tell you that the transfer of the Labour Inspectorate has been positive within our Autonomous Community, and that this transfer also took place in an exemplary way in early January 2012, without creating problems and without causing any delays for citizens. I would already like other transfers to have taken place with the exemplary result of the transfer of the Labour Inspectorate to this Autonomous Community! But, regardless of that, what this initiative is trying to avoid – and in that I agree with you – is that, drop by drop, as it could not cover the vacancies that were going to occur until the employment relationship came out, if we do not react (and we have already lost the whole of 2014), drop by drop to drop to what can lead to the dismantling of the Labour Inspectorate transferred. And that is precisely what is intended to prevent the initiative that we Basque Socialists have presented here today. And the transfer is not made on political grounds. It is that the transfer is included in our Statute. And we, within our legislature, did what we did is get it and make it effective. Now it is up to us to fight that the Labour Inspectorate transferred is not being dismantled precisely because those vacancies are not being filled. And, moreover, we also propose that we can improve it; that, since we have the promise of Mr. Aburto to expand in six more places, two more for each historical territory (two more for Álava, two more for Bizkaia and two more for Gipuzkoa), let us use it, because that is the important thing and that is what I have been asking. And, Mr Aiartza, I believe that what we want is that, that the vacancies and the enlargement of the seats are covered. The reinforcement plan said it would be in three months, and what I am saying here in my speech is that those three months have already passed and we are still waiting, and it has not been fulfilled. I know that we have to wait for the approval of the RPT (I said it in my first speech, and I say it again and I'm saying it again here), because, if not, legally and technically it cannot be produced, because if you don't have an RPT you don't have the space to be able to assign and be able to enter a contest. What you have done in Catalonia, whether you have done it right or wrong, is your problem, not ours. They did it wrong there, it's done well here. That's another question. Without further ado, what I believe is that, as all the groups have said, this is important, I think this initiative is important, and I believe that we are all absolutely in agreement on that. I therefore ask all the parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this initiative, because the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, in order to ensure compliance with the rules in force in our Autonomous Community, is important, and I therefore ask for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u114	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Zulaika, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u115	Eserlekutik egingo dut. Bakarrik bi kontu weretzun-txanda honetan. Sanchez anderari, I don't know, the old lady's account doesn't give me the same data. I mean, if we're talking about an RPT of 105 people and we're asking for a third more... Inspectors. In our amendment we say staffing. Okay. And as far as the one-year deadline is concerned, well, I have also said in my first speech that, although it is true that we too understand that it is too, also more concrete than its initiative, that they want to... I don't have it right now, but in the shortest possible time, or something. So, well, if that was the reason not to negotiate, I think we would have reached some kind of agreement. I'm sure of it. And then to the PNV spokesman simply answer that I also say the same thing: that if the problem was..., that if you also agree to ask for the transfer, to ask for our transfer, that we could have negotiated. I already know that in six months you won't get the full competition. We do not ask for that in our amendment. What we are asking is for the Basque Government to draw up a roadmap in six months' time to request it and to achieve it. That is what we called for in our amendment. Of course I didn't think we'd get it in six months. Well, seeing that our initiative is not going to get to the vote, and the purpose of the initiative, which is to improve the current situation, to expand the staff of the Labour Inspectorate and, well, to improve the situation in general, as I say, we will abstain in the regional initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u117	Yes, the transfer was made. Congratulations. Great success of Basque nationalism and its friends the socialists! Result: that everything is worse than before. This is the reality. The transfer is carried out for political reasons, for propaganda reasons, without a serious and rigorous study, in a hasty manner, without planning. That is how this transfer is carried out, and the association of inspectors itself says so, if you have had the opportunity to meet with them. A new cobbler. How are we, therefore, today? Worse than we were three years ago. I would like to reiterate once again that it is not a question of having as many more powers as possible, but above all of the powers we have that can be exercised well. And the result is obvious what it is. And, of course, the Basque Government is the most responsible here at the moment. I don't know if you read the press release from the Inspectors' Association. It speaks of "authentic organizational disaster, which is directly attributable to the highest officials of this Government". "Organizational disaster", the association of inspectors itself. He speaks of "barrasadas", speaks of "tropelia", and speaks of the "progressive and systematic dismantling" of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in the Basque Country. It does not say UPyD, says the association of inspectors himself, who says that he does not have the means or materials or humans to carry out his work. This is therefore the result and this is the management that this Basque Government is carrying out. This is, therefore, the reality. The problems remain: lack of personnel in all territories, lack of an intermediate executive structure, lack of coherence and clarity in relations with the State inspection and in the internal organisation of each territorial inspection. This is said by the association of inspectors themselves, which even threatens the possibility of starting a strike. That's what they said. That's what they've come to say. So, finally, stop boring us with your discussions on new transfers that are supposed to remain pending, and those that we have in our power are going to exercise them properly. Here's the thing. Therefore, gentlemen of the Government, act. It's been over three years. The inspectors are outraged, they cannot do their job properly. I mean, the transfer has actually been achieved, it has been achieved. Result, nefarious. And now, in the meantime, in the end, instead of managing well what you have in your hands, you begin to discuss whether to ask for new transfers. Anyway, it's a real nonsense.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u118	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Ruiz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u119	Andreak: Yes, Madam President, thank you. From the seat. Mr. Aiartza, you do not want to minimize the government's responsibility. You've been ruling for three years. I already imagined that again they were going to get involved in the administrative maraña to justify what today is a fact, that the service is being provided in a deficient way. And it's your responsibility, the responsibility of the PNV. It is true that in my first speech I said that I was not going to put the magnifying glass, since we were going to agree in the vote with Mrs Sánchez's proposal, in the non-compliance with commitments, in the delays..., but, of course, that you, in your speech, want to make us believe that there is more responsibility than there is in fact in the Spanish Government when this comes to an end, well, neither is that. Be a little bit more... I was going to say more elegant. Since we did not want to draw attention to the responsibility that you have once you have assumed the transfer, then, with talking about administrative truths and difficulties when it comes to materializing what has already been intended to do... But it's just that you guys got engaged here three months ago. So this debate should not have taken place, if you had done your job and if you had fulfilled your commitments. So, what's important today? That we have reached a consensus, and let us hope that this proposal will be a definitive impetus for this to be done, because time... Then we have changed our advisor, or so I think, and in the end, this has not yet been put into effect. Then, a little more humility; acknowledge it, do everything you have to do, and do not attempt to claim that, in the end, the Spanish government is best at doing so... I've read the minutes of the Basque Labour Inspection Council, which is where they coordinate, and the tone and disposition is... it's total. So, that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. And in the end, Eucabertians represent the group, Lord Adarzka, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u121	Thanks again. Mr. Maneiro, you who attend so much to law enforcement, to law enforcement, request compliance with article 18.2 of an organic law of the State, of the Statute of Autonomy. Mrs. Ruiz, administrative maraña..., I have not been entangled in any administrative maraña. In the first intervention he talked about delays, non-compliances, parsimony... Of those thirty-five years, I believe that fifteen years are of parsimony to his Government in Madrid. Mrs. Sánchez, you don't want to get mixed up, you don't like to mix... He talks about what is contained in our Statute. I say the same to Mr Maneiro again: 18.2 is also reflected in our Statute. And he urges the counselor to make use of all his competence, all his competences, that too. And, Mrs. Zulaika, in the mid-eighties, at the time of the boiling of some of the competitions, sounded a song that said: "Where were you then, when do you need you so much?". Where were you when the country needed you so much? And where are they right now with that speech? He tells us about the road map, he tells us about total management... , total management of social security. And, focusing on inspection, I don't know what you're talking about this global management of things as broad as what you're telling us. What do you plan to do, or would you plan to do with this global management? Or do they intend to act in the same way as they do in the inspection, in another inspection, in that of municipal taxes? Municipalities that you govern are privatizing the public service of the municipal inspection. They have even been sued by the State's own Advocate, claiming that you privatize the public service that must be in the hands of officials. Be clear, Mrs. Zulaika. Do not bring us these speeches here, stop making these great points 2 of the amendments here. You do it to your mayors. I think it'll be more productive for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u122	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Socialists. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 53; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; abstations 21st. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u123	So, the original text has been accepted. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word. And please silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. There are police forces, such as the Civil Guard, which have a nature protection service (Seprona) whose areas of action include land management, historical heritage, fire prevention and investigation, kinegetic activities, maritime continental fishing, etc. I am not going to read them all, because I think they are known and because, in any case, I have there a brochure that passed to me my partner, that if you want to teach him, in which they are absolutely detailed what the functions are. And as fundamental tasks of this unit we have the investigation for the clarification of the crimes and faults, the complaint to the competent authorities of the violations detected, the prevention of the polluting behaviors of the environment through the surveillance and control of potentially degrading activities, the protection of the natural physical support, the promotion of behaviors of respect for nature, the environment or the protection of species that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u125	Lanos andrea, mesez, isildu momentu bat. Messedity, isiltas una denui.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u126	Well, the functioning and effectiveness of this service I believe is unanimously recognized, so what we are asking is that the functioning of the service that currently exists in Ertzaintza be the same way. Because in 2010, and within the Central Section for Criminal Investigation and Judicial Police, a group of six officers was created with various degrees related to the work area and with minimum material means, whose work is very limited by the multitude of administrative rules whose knowledge is sometimes inaccessible. These people have studies related to law, biological sciences, chemistry, and have received courses or workshops related to the environment. But we believe that more training is needed, which is very important in environmental crimes, which is very difficult to prove in the courts if we do not get to the place of the offence quickly and take proper evidence. This section starts timidly, as we said, in 2010, although, if we go to the figures, we see that in 2013 it has materialized in eighteen performances and in 2012 in thirteen performances. Therefore, we see that the number of activities in a territory such as that of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, with a high degree of urbanization and industrialization, is really scarce. And what begins its performance timidly we do not say: the annual memory of the Prosecutor's Office of 2010 so describes it, from the timid beginning of this group, also pointing out that it only acted at the impulses of the prosecutor and that it sometimes delegated concrete action to other actions or to other bodies. Little by little, regular contacts and meetings between this section of the Ertzaintza and provincial prosecutors are being established over the course of 2011. According to the memory of the Prosecutor's Office, in 2012 alone in Bizkaia the cases are increased by 120 %, in Gipuzkoa they are not registered ex officio, and the lack of material means and of training for the investigation is evidenced. The 2013 memoir re-emphasizes the lack of material and training resources in Ertzaintza for the investigation of these types of illicits. Therefore, the memoirs of the period 2010-2013, the memoirs of the Prosecutor's Office of the Basque Country, gather two significant facts that must be put on the table to understand the need for the proposal that we bring here today. Firstly, that the Environment and Urbanism Unit establishes without problems the relationship and schedule of meetings with the prosecutors of the three territories, but secondly, that it is immediately apparent that in the work of this unit it would be possible to improve knowledge and action on complaints of environmental crime and urbanism if it had more means than it currently has. Because the utility of unity is clear, but that utility can be much greater if it truly becomes a group that is established, a true unity, and if it is given the means of those who in practice at this time are lacking. Because we have consistently demonstrated, the Prosecutor's Office of the Basque Country in 2011, 2012 and 2013 shows over and over again the precariousness of the material and human means of this unit, which has to resort to other entities, for example the URA, for sampling, without the repetition year after year of this fact having led to the provision of such means, and despite the substantial increase in the number of complaints to be investigated. In the latter respect, the Office of the Prosecutor recognizes that the complaints of environmental associations and political groups about alleged environmental and urban crime are a very important source of information, but that it must be analysed and screened, because it does not reach all. But, given the shortage of human and material resources, the constant shortage since its origin, it is evident that, although more and more alleged crimes are detected by the work of the unit, many others cannot be properly investigated or simply remain ignored. So, we can set an example. Not long ago, the Environmental and Urbanism Unit, after investigating half a hundred scrap mills and other waste material collection facilities, carried out a surprise inspection at seventeen scrap mills, fourteen of them in Bizkaia, two in Álava and one in Gipuzkoa. And in all of them, visited simultaneously with the collaboration of different units of the Ertzaintza, it was confirmed that they were working irregularly, without permits and polluting the natural environment in a different way. That happened less than four months ago, and it shows two things. One, that when the Ertzaintza investigates the alleged environmental crimes the crimes appear, and it seems that they are extended. And secondly, if this same police operation had been carried out four years ago, it is very possible that it would have yielded similar results, because we all know that environmental and urban crimes have not been there for a long time, we know that they have been committed for years and waiting for them to be investigated. But the truth is that, as I said at first, in the year 2012 thirteen performances, and in the year 2013 eighteen. Most of the research carried out in 2013 has been carried out on specific themes of the environment, flora and fauna, a total of twelve, and the rest relate to issues of urban planning, historical heritage or forest fires. Of these proceedings, two have proceeded from Ertzaintza itself following complaints from individuals, and the rest by orders of the courts or environmental prosecutors. That is why we believe that it is essential to provide the Ertzaintza with an environmental unit, a genuine specific environmental unit, and that it has human resources with training related to this environmental matter of first level, and that it has sufficient technical and material means to carry out its work. Because, at this moment, that there are no more facts investigated, in our opinion, it has a clear cause, and it is that lack of human, material and technical means of Ertzaintza. Because the means devoted to environmental issues are more than insufficient, they are minimal in many cases. What cannot happen again, we believe from the Group of the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has to make us smile again, it has to embarrass us by pointing out, as it does every year in its memory, the lack of training and material means of the Ertzaintza for the investigation of environmental illegals. It is difficult to understand why it has not reacted before, because, as I said, environmental crimes are not something that arises a year or two ago, but they have been there for a long time. But, well, as is often said, it is better late than never, because our environment needs it, and because the work of the Ertzaintza agents, with scarce human and material means, has achieved remarkable successes, and therefore demands that in order to achieve many more successes those means be complemented. On many occasions, some people are filled with talk about Ertzaintza and the invasion of competences, and that we should exercise competences that we do not currently exercise. Well, what we need is to exercise our powers well. Ertzaintza has the competence to deal with environmental illegals: let us equip it with the material and human means to do so. Because a proper exercise of these powers goes hand in hand with specific first level training, through the technical and material means by which it can carry out its work. We have seen that in the training plan of the Arkaute Police Academy for 2015 one of the axes is the environment. We agree with that, but we believe that we should go further. What Ertzaintza needs, beyond workshops, beyond training, is also human, technical and material means for it to be able to carry out work on environmental illegals. Not only, as I say, we must give training courses, but we must act now, giving many more means. That's what we were asking. Finally, we have come to a compromise amendment, in which we ask that it be consolidated and that it acquire the character of a definitive and consistent structure that exists at the moment, but, in any case, that it be endowed with much more personnel, that it be endowed with many more means, and that it really be that, a unit that pursues environmental crimes. I look forward to the approval of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u127	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Mazzu, representative of the EH Collect Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u128	Good afternoon, everyone. A subject which we have brought five years ago comes back to the legislature, and it appears that what we have already admitted has not been fully fulfilled. In the year 2009, we first brought this subject to the legislature, and in those days we made the proclamation of several of the comlogists. In the same way, it was not only the proclamation of the divisive groups, but it was also a proclamation of the prosecution. It was not easy for him to pursue the crimes of this kind, to pursue crimes contrary to the environment and to the administration of cities. At that time, we were asking for a special group in the border to explore the environments and the city conditions and we didn't get it. Instead, within the Criminal Department of Investigation, there are about five of the agents and principal agents who have a special formation around the environmental and urban conditions. Is that enough? Not for us, and the data is there to say no. 13 doors in year 2012 and 18 doors 2013. For a year, most of them were filed. And these results for us are very little, and are few because there is not enough personal and material resources. They do as they can, or I suppose that agents now exist, but without material resources it is impossible to inquire into the crimes of this kind: the spills, the polluted earth, the noise, they need certain technical tools, and without them it's very hard to make a good apartment, and it's also very difficult to make a good lock-up that might be useful in a brief. Dirudienez, hori ez da soilik guk eskatzen edo pentsatzen duguna. Dirudienez, Fiskaltzaren iritzia ere bada, 2014. urteko remember horrela esaten duelako: "Also, given the lack of training and material means of Ertzaintza in the investigation of some illicits, it was found that it would remain URA who took the corresponding samples in case of dumping". It is plain, therefore, that the formation which is now given is not sufficient, and in this case it is necessary; that material and technical resources are not sufficient to inquire into the crimes of this kind, or at least to make a good atheist, and then to be useful in a brief or inquisition. I declare, therefore, that we shall vote with the terms agreed upon. We think and continue to think that it is better to have a unit, that is what we proclaimed in its time, and we continue to think that the crimes of this kind will certainly follow with all the serious and necessary resources of this kind. But, in the constitutive text, it agrees to establish a fixed structure, which is also essential to us, with sufficient technical and material resources. We'll have a chance to see if it's really enough to see him for the next few years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u129	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mr. Unzalu, the Basque Socialist represents the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressmen, good evening to all of you. Aggression to the environment is consistent with the very existence of the human being on Earth. The attempt of humans to adapt the environment to their needs is not new, and has led to a process of constant degradation. Chernobyl, Bhopal, Seveso, in the international context, Doñana or Prestige in Spain, are very clear examples of discontrol and its consequences for humanity. Facts that should have been prevented, that should never have happened. Facts caused by the desire to consume the human being and the most absolute lack of control. Environmental illicits exist and are constantly increasing. That's why they're perfectly typified. Specifically in Spain, the Penal Code in Title XVI contains such offences. The responsibility for environmental control lies with the Basque Autonomous Community, although the historical territories and the municipalities also have their own competence. Ertzaintza, as a Basque integral police officer, is responsible for the investigation and prosecution of crimes against the environment; therefore, any Ertzaintzain has the power to act before the evidence or suspicion of the crime. However, the special importance and characteristics of such offences also require the assistance of persons with specific training and adequate means to investigate them. That is why, in May 2010, the then Councillor of the Interior, Socialist Mr Ares, announced in attendance in this House the creation of a group of ertzainas, specifically six, specialized in the investigation, prosecution and clarification of crimes against the environment. This group joined the Division of Citizen Security and Operational Resources to carry out its work on its own initiative or at the request of the different police stations or units where necessary, due to the importance or complexity of the facts to be investigated. At the conference I mentioned, it was noted that that decision was a first step, a starting point, but that it required its development. The truth is that nothing has progressed in this legislature from that point of departure. The situation of Ertzaintza in relation to environmental illegals is the same as when the aforementioned team was set up. The team continues to have the same resources as in 2012. We therefore believe that the human resources of the Ertzaintza environmental group must be increased, that their training must be strengthened and that their technical means must be improved in order to achieve a more efficient performance of their work. In this regard, we also believe that it is essential to increase collaboration with outside and local administrations, and coordination with the relevant prosecutor's office. As has already been said on this stand, we have signed a compromise amendment which we believe covers all these issues and which I hope will have a very broad majority of support in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u131	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Missto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u132	Yes, thank you. Only to say that I will also vote in favour of the transactional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u133	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, good evening to all of you. Well, as we said, today we are on a subject that we believe is unnecessary, as I will then prove with data, and in the very justification of the original GNP, presented by the People's Group, in which it called for the launch of a new unit (well, they have now converted it), it referred to the actions of this existing environmental unit. And there was – as Mr Maeztu, who was present in that plenary, said – as a result of a parliamentary mandate in November 2009, more specifically of the proposal no. 75/2009. As Mr Unzalu said, on 6 October 2010, the then Home Secretary, Mr Ares, informed, in response to a parliamentary question, of the creation of the environmental crime investigation group, with the creation of the area of Environment and Urbanism in the then Criminal Police Division. We therefore believe that the 2009 parliamentary mandate has been fulfilled, Mr Maeztu. The group denomination goes within the structure. I know that you propose division, which we understand is disproportionate and excessive in this matter. Therefore, the original GNP, in short, seems to question, obviously questions the creation and functioning of the Environment and Urbanism area created during the mandate of the councillor Mr Ares, because it considers it unsatisfactory. And he did alluding to the supposedly poor statistics of the years 2012 and 2013, which have been mentioned here (three performances in 2012 and eighteen in 2013). And, in the face of the memory of the Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of 2008, which was mentioned precisely by Mr Maeztu in that November 2009 plenary, which was very critical in this regard, the memory of 2012 of the coordinating Prosecutor's Office highlights the incorporation of positive references to the sections of the autonomous police specialized in the environment in the memories of the Prosecutor's Office, making explicit mention of the memories of the prosecutors' offices of Álava and Gipuzkoa in relation to the Ertzaintza. And this is not an approach that says the PNV or that says the PP: it says the memory of 2012 in the coordinating Prosecutor's Office. In addition, reference has been made here to the 2014 memory of the Office of the Attorney-General of the Autonomous Community. We see that there are different interpretations, or each one takes what interests him most, and I say again that it is not a party interpretation. It was not my intention to read, not to bore them, I don't know if to read it, because some parts have been read here, but I will stay with the conclusion, which is that from the Prosecutor's Office, in this memory of 2014, "the work of the area of Environment and Urbanism of the Ertzaintza is positively valued, highlighting collaboration, cooperation, coordination in this field". If I am going to read and I am going to make reference, since it has been made expressly, to the case that was given in Gipuzkoa regarding the protocolization of the collection of water samples by the agency URA. In this case it is accompanied by ertzainas from this area of Environment in order to draw up the record. The Prosecutor's Office points to the Ertzaintza's lack of training and own resources, yes, Mr Maeztu, for this sampling, and says that it could well be solved through training, but also that under no circumstances does it mean that the effectiveness of the investigation will be diminished to act in collaboration with other non-police environmental experts, be URAs, environmental inspectors, etc. And, Mrs Llanos, regarding the reference that you have made to blush and shame for these references that you have used, from the memories of the prosecutors, I must also say, in this sense of blush and shame, that, unlike the perception of the Prosecutor's Office in Euskadi, which, as I say, positively appreciate it, the coordinating Prosecutor's Office does mention in its last memory the lack of means and staff of the specialized prosecutors themselves, and some delegated prosecutors – I will not tell you which ones, it has in the memory – bring up the lack of means by Seprona, as well as the Urban Crimes Unit of the Civil Guard. So, blush... I don't know who has to blush. Denunciation of such alleged environmental-related criminal acts is the result of complaints from individuals, environmental associations, environmental inspection, water regulators, fishing or mountain services, as well as Ertzaintza and local police. Indeed, we believe that there is no perception that there is – and most importantly in the environmental field – a hidden number of crimes that are not reported. From the data of the Prosecutor's Office it is clear that environmental crimes and against urban planning in Euskadi are the ones that they are. And we understand that the increase in this police area, which we are surprised by Mr Unzalu's approach, would not mean that more illegals would arise, especially because the motivation of GNP is not based on an oversaturation of specialized resources. Therefore, we do want to highlight the work carried out so far by the Ertzaintza, as well as the reports of the Office of the Prosecutor. And in his argument he says that he blames the statistics on the shortage of personnel and means in the Ertzaintza and on the limitation of the training of the members of that area. However, such information does not take into account the organization provided for in the Ertzaintza in this regard, as an integral police force. It is not real to say that only six ertzainas (five and one chief of operations) are involved in environmental issues. The whole collective works on these issues, as well as on any other issues that involve ensuring compliance with the law. The investigation of the illicits, of these and of all others, is carried out at the three levels of the organization (comarcal, historical and central territory), supported by one level in another according to the complexity of the matter and the need for coordination. And at the central level there are specialized research groups, among which is this area that investigates by itself certain complex crimes, and coordinates and supports the investigation of environmental and urban crimes by the rest of the criminal investigation police. Something similar to what Mr. Interior Counsellor at the time, Mr. Ares, expressed in an appearance to this respect. We understand that the organizational decision taken in the last legislature is that these police officers should be responsible for the coordination of investigations, as well as for the cases they have to take in order to carry out the investigation directly. It was about strengthening the work as specialists of what the Ertzaintza as a whole does. The thread of the example that Mrs Llanos has set, of the example of scrap shops, is an example of this, of this operation that she told her as regards organization and as regards integral police. There may be concrete actions which temporarily add to those necessary means, both of investigation and of citizen security, to carry out the appropriate investigations. As regards training, which is the other aspect to which it referred, the training plans of the Basque Police Academy include environmental training activities aimed at agents in general and certain sections, such as the 2014 training plan already carried out. It should also be borne in mind that all Ertzaintza agents receive basic training at the academy also in relation to the fight against environmental crimes. And, as Mrs Llanos pointed out, one of the cross-cutting commitments in 2015 planning at this year's Basque Police Academy will be the environment. In this field the academy incorporates courses for the Ertzaintza and local police forces on police patrol in the rural environment. In the case of courses for the research area of the police stations of the Ertzaintza, courses on the environment, historical heritage and urban planning are incorporated. And it extends the courses of action against fires and the plan of radiological, biological and chemical nuclear defense to almost all the collectives, also improving the formation of the section of Environment of Minones. Finally, I believe that you have gone directly to the point, as you have started your exhibition precisely for this; that your model is clear: your model is the Civil Guard Seprone. It seems to want to replace the existing area, whose scope is the same as the environmental and urban prosecutor's offices, with another dedicated exclusively to environmental issues, taking the Seprona model, which is not really a criminal investigation service and judicial police, but exercises all the surveillance tasks, in addition to what is really an investigation. However, in our Autonomous Community, as you well know, both the People's Party and Bildu, our institutional architecture establishes that the monitoring and protection of the environment and the conservation of nature are uniquely attributed to other sectors of the autonomous administration, foral or local, which already have personnel dedicated to such tasks (forestry, water inspection, Minones, etc.), without prejudice to collaboration with the Ertzaintza. It is therefore necessary to take into account the division of powers between the various institutions (fora, municipalities and the Basque Government), which have the means of prevention and surveillance corresponding to them, denouncing in their case to the Prosecutor's Office and the Ertzaintza those incidents which may constitute an offence, and also collaborating in the investigation. Therefore, the Seprona model is not valid in Euskadi, as the division of competition is different. In addition, at the state level, the special offices of Environment and Urbanism must deal, in addition to Seprona, with the units of urban crime separately, while here the area of Environment and Urbanism of the Ertzaintza falls within the scope of action of the specialized prosecutors. We have therefore not signed the transactional amendment, which has certainly been offered to us to sign that transactional amendment, because we believe that the amendment to the whole presented by the Basque Nationalist Party was more coherent, since it proposes, yes, continuous training, proposes to improve (always to be improved) and to increase collaboration and coordination with the Prosecutor's Office, with the outside and local administrations, competent in this area, and we will therefore abstain in the transactional amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u135	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u136	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, I didn't think I was going to have to intervene in the reply because I thought we would all agree on this. Man, I've set the Seprone as an example because I think it's a service... I don't know if prosecutors – and I'm not going to get involved, because here we are in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country – I don't know if delegated prosecutors have complaints. Where appropriate, that the relevant bodies and those who monitor the functioning of the Civil Guard make the relevant complaints or requests. But it is a service that is well valued by many environmental groups, and what is at issue is that, when something is well valued, something similar is established in the Basque Autonomous Police, of which, if any, this Parliament is competent to control its operation. Look, you were talking about the memory and that the group existed. That the group existed is true, and what you've done is read a sentence... In addition, if you look at the different memoirs, the memoirs are often short-lived, and that same phrase that praises the collaboration with the Basque Autonomous Police by the Prosecutor's Office, with that group, appears in all memoirs. If I didn't say there was a bad relationship! What I have said is that what the Office of the Prosecutor says is that despite this good relationship, there is a lack of material, personal and training resources, recognized by the agents themselves. Recognized by the agents themselves, who say that they lack training and that some of the investigations they have to carry out cannot be carried out by their own means. Man, they can also outsource the CSI, but, come on, I think what it's about is that the police have their own means to investigate crimes that are very complex. And they don't need a little training. He says, "No, they have all the means of Ertzaintza at their disposal." But it's not about that. If specific training is required and it is being said that the members of this group themselves do not have sufficient training, as in order to claim that the entire Basque Autonomous Police have it to assist this group of environmental units! I think that's something that doesn't hold up. And it is that the repeated requests for greater personal means, greater material means, greater specialization of the people who make up this group, are repeated by the Prosecutor's Office. Because – I have told you before and I can read it to you – in the memory of 2013 it is said that you have to carry out a screening of the complaints manifested. Why does a screening work have to be done? Do you think it's normal, that when there's notititia crimes you have to do a screening job because you can't investigate all cases because there's not enough staff? No! No! All complaints or complaints should be investigated, and the Basque Autonomous Police should have the personal, material and technical means to investigate in depth all such allegedly illegal actions. Because, moreover, the Prosecutor's Office itself says that they are an important source of criminal news without which on many occasions such allegedly illegal actions would not be known. And, of course, it is good that all the complaints be investigated, and it would also be good for Ertzaintza herself, that this same group could also investigate. Not only do you use the complaints of environmental groups or individual complaints, but you can also investigate these illegal criminals in the environment and in urban planning. Why can't you do it? Because he doesn't have enough means. What's a unit? No matter what it's called, unity, division, group... What this is about, and that was the meaning of our initiative, is that it works, that it is a consolidated structure, that it has sufficient means. That not only is the parliamentary mandate fulfilled by putting in place a group that probably works very well but does not get to everything, but that really, if we take environmental and anti-urbanism crimes seriously, it must be endowed. And, of course – and also in the amendment puts it – respecting the institutional architecture of our Autonomous Community and respecting the competences that may have outlaws or, where appropriate, municipalities in these matters. Of course I do. But I think that is something we have put in the amendment to make it clear, but I think it is something obvious, because it is nothing more than law enforcement and respect the distribution of competences that exists in Euskadi. And the police cooperation in their case, when it comes to investigations that do not correspond to Ertzaintza itself, but to local police or, where appropriate, outside police. But I think that without sufficient means, material and personal, you call yourself what you call yourself, you will not achieve the goal you seek. Nothing more, and many thanks to those who have signed the compromise amendment and to those who are going to support it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u137	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Mazezu, do you want to take the word?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u138	Yeah. From where you're from, with your permission. To say only to Mr. Zorrill, I think it has been sufficiently obvious that he and his party do not really care to pursue the crime against environment and town-making, to study well. To say, when it is an argument that uses most of its arguments, that all the agents of the present border are to inquire into the crimes of this kind, and other crimes, when we know that certain crimes are well investigated, from their penal peculiarities, from their penal type, require a formation, and in many cases special and personal resources. Hence bordering has a special section to follow informal crimes, or the prosecutor, or the stock of genera. And similarly Crimes contrary to environment, and to State: Because of the special guy they have, the agents must be well formed. And it's impossible without adequate resources. Of course, in some cases, it will suffice to use the resources of water or other non-poly administration. But in many of the Crimes of this kind to be immediately examined, it is necessary to consider immediately. And frequently the Administration can't guarantee that because it's necessary to call Water, because at that time the Water won't have a person to go to that place right away because it's supposed to hire or connect with a concrete lab. And we know that things like that are given in practice. And after that, it is essential to do a good closed-up, and afterwards to study the crimes of this kind. Therefore we think that what is required is reasonable. It's short enough for us, but, well, we'll tell the chief physician on our side whether he's ready in this case at least to do what's accepted to-day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u139	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u140	Mrs. President, if you'll excuse me from the seat. No, just to correct Mr. Zorrilla, who, as this is recorded... You have indeed said that there was a non-law proposal from this Parliament in November 2009, and that the adviser appeared in October. I want to correct you, because in May 2010 you already came to this Parliament to report on the creation of that group which this Parliament had urged you to do. It is simply to make it clear that it was not a year that Mr Ares was late in reporting to this Parliament, but that he did so exactly on 19 May 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u141	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mr. Maneiro...? No. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u142	President, if you'll excuse me from the seat. Well, as far as Mr. Unzalu was concerned, you're right and you're not, to say the least. I meant an appearance that there was, but I meant that when it was said that the group had been set up within the Criminal Unit it was in a parliamentary response on October 6, 2010. And the plenary was on 19-11-2009. Well, let's not insist on the discussion with Mrs. Llanos about the lack of training and means. We do believe that training is necessary, and that is why in our amendment to the whole we were talking about continuous training and an improvement of the means, of course. I've tried to explain the organization a little bit. We are not in favour of excessive compartmentalization or the creation of watertight compartments with little flexibility in the functioning of the Ertzaintza as a whole, because we believe in an integral police force, and it must also work on the basis of cooperation and coordination with the other institutions which have competence in these matters. With regard to integral police – here also referring to Bildu – it is not clear to us. We believe that the concept is not the same with regard to the concept we have of Ertzaintza, more after having heard the last statements of its spokesman. We also see that both PP and Bildu coincide...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u143	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u144	Don't deny me that it was the first thing you've done, and that your intention is the Seprona model, applicable. We understand that it is not applicable, as a result of the division of jurisdiction. And what is well valued by many environmental groups? Yes, it is highly valued by many environmental groups, and even by Mr Maeztu, who has repeatedly praised the Seprona model of the Civil Guard. I don't know if, in that green, green spirit, he's confused with the Civil Guard suit. Look at him, Mr. Maeztu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u145	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. End of discussion, we'll vote for the popular Euscals, Misto-UPyD and Euska Sozialist. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 48; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; Abstenations, 26. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-19.u146	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-two.
