ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Sit down on your seats, please. Quiet, plune has begun, please. Let's start with 12 and 18 points left for another. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, Juan Antonio Arieta-Auregabea, Ebarbertarians, members of the staff of the community of Parliament for education, politics, and Cultural Corporation, to protect the culture industry by the general lines of the joys of Eubarta. " Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The situation in the cultural industries of Euskadi is very complicated, indeed, as a result of the economic crisis, but also because of the digital mutation and change in the cultural habits of society itself. We know that the Basque Government has a clear commitment to these cultural industries. That is why we ask you, Commissioner, to explain to us the general outlines of your policies in support of the cultural industries in the Basque Country. We wait for your answer, my lady physician.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u1	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. By the way, I'd like to hear it from you, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u2	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. President, President, members of the legislature, Mr. Arieta-Arunabeña, good morning. I'll try to summarize our protective policies for the culture industry in five points. They're different lines of work, but at the same time they're supplementary and consistent, because in our beauty it's essential to protect the cultural industry because they're of strategic value. First line, strengthing sector professional tissue. It's about to protect the internal structure of the sector so that the sharing, professionalizing, and internationalization of the government can be enabled. The origin of the music office is a good example of the reconstruction of the sector, where all the professional associations with music have been gathered together and the origin of the Basque Halls. Such a society is the only one in the whole state, and also the whole chain of values, and the show is the mark we wish to arrive at. The second line, support for content production. The criteria for selecting projects from open competition calls to subsidize production are always agreed with the sector, with professional selection committees in the sector. In the field of literary publishing, the launch of the Digital Library, e-liburutegia, has promoted the digital production and marketing of literary content. In the field of cinema, innovative policies have been put in place to support national and international co-production, with logistical support for market access and specialized training for our producers. Third, the tax system to attract private investment. We've increased our interaction with the tax administration directors so that the tax incentives to promote culture may have more importance in the coordination organ. It's also begun to attract private investment tax to the economics in the industrialized zone, especially in the movies. Fourth line, access to funding. In order to bring the cultural and financial sectors closer together and to guarantee the cultural sector the same opportunities as the rest of the companies have been worked hard with Elkargi, a reference in financial support for companies. We have an interlocutor from Elkargi who specializes in our field, and we also have the support of the entire structure, from the general management, as seen in Zinemaldia, to the Department of Consulting, with whom we have launched a call for diagnosis and financial advice for cultural companies. This initiative has been very welcome. And the fifth ring, the market entrance. In the first place, we take the wager to influence the visibility of our cultural production and to encourage the consumption of our culture products to increase a higher quota of market. With the sector, that is, libraries, theatres, cinemas and concert rooms. Thus we act upon the whole chain of values, from the creators to the public, from a global point of view, and plainly from a point of view which is extolled in the content of the cults of youth and youth. You may then see five different points of work, but each of them is supplementary, and five of the same purpose: in other words, to protect our cultural culture, economic, and social culture in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Second point on the subject list: "To question, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made for the President, and the misinformed information of supposed leaders." Mr. Arzuga, wait a minute. Now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Two weeks ago, three weeks ago, on an information given by the border, Peio Ion Sánchez Mendaza and the Commander, after the Security Department had published his photograph and data on the bordering site. The news spread itself that day publicly appeared Sánche, and made it clear that the information was false from top to bottom, and that he made common life without having any connection with it. The Security Department then released a note from the press, declaring that Sánchez Mendaza had been a fatal mistake, and that was the only reaction to the Security Department. I'm sure that serious mistake is responsible, and I really think that if it's such a big mistake, it's necessary to clean up the responsibility. So, Mr. President or Hedia in Beltrán you are here, this is my question: is it enough that the press should correct or note the serious injury which Sánchezi has caused? What are the measures you take to stop repeating this? And those of you who say that the border is a police of closeness, I want to ask you whether you have proved this readiness to approach Sánchez Mendaz and take care of the damage you've caused him, to see if you've made contact with him; and I think that he has an easy answer, yes or no. I know the answer, but I want to hear it from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u5	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. In reply, Mrs. Heedia is a Daneman representative. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mr. Arzuga, the Security Department accepted the mistake and announced that it had happened for a mistake of sorrow. I can understand the anger of that person and I have to accept the department and the criticisms received by the border. But admitted and communicated what has happened, I think it no longer makes sense to bring the issue to the debate. Frankly, it seems to me that it is not the most appropriate, out of respect precisely for the person concerned. And I repeat to you again what we said at the time, the one that appeared this publication, the one that appeared the photo in question, was a mistake and was somewhat involuntary, within those web page renewal routines. The photo that should not have been included was published. The photo of a person with a name and surname, as part of a police list of people wanted for their membership of ETA when – it is true – there was no type of requirement, no type of search order about this person, although it had existed in the past, but now, I insist, it did not exist. I want to clarify that the website only published the photo and also the identity of the person, but in no case collected any other information, no evaluation, no assignment of any kind of responsibility for this person. Immediately, as soon as we were aware of the error, it was rectified. We accept, as we have said publicly, criticism and reproach, and, above all, we regret, as it cannot be otherwise, the damage that has been done to this person.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u7	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u8	Yes, thank you. He tells me that out of respect for the person, but out of respect for the person, one could also have been worthy to contact him to convey that error to him, and also to worry about the obvious damage that had been caused to him in his moral integrity, but because he was also being put at the feet of the horses of operations or arbitrary judicial proceedings, and with that, in this country, counselor, one cannot play. We know that some journalists, on the contrary, some of those who made the publication of this news, have indeed contacted Peio Sánchez to explain to him precisely that the source was the Ertzaintza, precisely, that these journalists came into contact with the Ertzaintza and that they contrasted that information, and they made themselves available to Sánchez Mendaza to solve the damage that they could have created with that news. An attitude that honours them and that powerfully contrasts with the attitude of the Government. You tell me that the photo disappears and you tell me that it is a routine, but I want to ask you: how do the intelligence services of the Ertzaintza work? In other words, does a person who has served his sentence in France, who receives notifications from the Paris Court and the Madrid National Court at his home, find that the intelligence services of the Ertzaintza know absolutely nothing about this person? Don't you know he's got all the justice bills settled? Don't you know you have a legal employment contract in force at Iparralde? Don't you know he's discharged from Social Security? Don't you know he lives in Iparralde, but he usually travels to Hegoalde? Don't you know that you have participated in political acts, in political appearances in an absolutely normalized way? And what I'm asking you is, don't you guys take absolutely no action in the face of this chaff? How are they going to correct it? Has the Central Bureau of Intelligence, its 178 components, resigned in mass, or, as I am afraid, have taken absolutely no action? Look, counselor, there are many times you accuse me that I intend to disallow or discredit Ertzaintza. I think she's discrediting herself with these kinds of acts. I believe that it is you who disallow her with these practices of Mortadelo and Philemon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u10	Thank you. Well, I want to insist that as a department we have already recognized that that photo should not have been published, and we have recognized that it was an involuntary issue within the website renewal routines. It has been recorded that it was rectified immediately, as soon as it was recorded. And this immediate rectification is the best evidence that the Ertzaintza did not want to cause any harm to this person, that there was no desire to cause harm, and proof of this also is that this person, the person affected from the department and also from the Ertzaintza, who were aware of what happened, were also completely alien to the information that had been published on this subject, the information that related the photos to the website of the Ertzaintza, and that other considerations were made in relation to confusing, contradictory interpretations, citing even unspecified sources. We said it and we said it and we said it again; I insist, we said it, we said it and we said it again: there was no real basis, nor did it correspond to any information handled by the Ertzaintza. We regret, I insist, the publication of this photo in what was a routine process. But we also regret, and above all, the damage that could have been done to this person. And, in any case, this person may exercise his rights to the claim of damages that could have been caused to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u11	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the legislature of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief physician of education, politics, and Culturalism, in order that no error should ever happen again to EIBB." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, Congressmen, good morning to all. Counselor, mistake on error and never amend the major. This is how the history of the mandate of the current EITB Directorate is being built. It is not an impression of the socialists, it is a fact that you yourselves are seeing, because because of the errors of the EITB Directorate this government is being forced to assume as its own all the shortcomings in the management of this public service. Some refer to the management of business, human resources, but today I will refer to those that have to do with decisions that are never well known who is responsible, which are never asked for responsibilities and which require corrections from you (the Government, Counsellor). They have to do with political positions, always of nationalist court, and too many times relating to something as sensitive as the treatment of victims and victims, memory, the delegitimization of terror as an instrument of political action. Without going further, two weeks ago the lehendakari himself had to recognize from this very rostrum an error and assume the inappropriate issue of the documentary "Windows inside". Without pretending to be exhaustive, because I don't have a lot of time, I'm going to quote some cases: they had to rectify the Strategic Plan in October 2013, they had to give explanations about the advertising posted on the EITB website concerning Gure Esku Dago in January 2014, they had to give those same explanations about an interview with the express Oscar Abad in February 2014, about information manipulation in October 2014, about the expression "political prisoners" in November 2014 – and this was repeated two weeks ago – about an interview with Mikel Zubimendi in February 2015. I will simply quote you because, as I say, I do not have much time, I have some statements of yours in this very rostrum on any of the issues I have commented on. You said: "The journalistic work is not always infallible and when mistakes are made it is simply necessary to recognize them, analyze them and adopt the preventive protocols necessary to avoid their repetition, and manifest it with absolute sincerity, as I have done before. No one's perfect, we can all make mistakes, everyone. When something is done wrong, we have to recognize it and try not to repeat it." Well, that, counselor. There are more examples, but I think these are enough to remind you of the times that you or the lehendakari have had to recognize mistakes, inopportunities or put another kind of excuse to get out of the way. Counselor, I repeat, mistake more error, so you assume. The feeling is that the mistake is to continue to protect a director whose resignation this Parliament has requested. I believe that these are more than enough cases for you to think about how far you can go without asking for responsibilities and without demanding that action be taken to avoid repetition of these situations. I therefore ask you the following question: what steps do you think the EITB Directorate should take to ensure that the errors in which the Basque Public Television Radio has committed have not been repeated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u14	Mrs. President of the Parliament. President. Mr Unzalu, in the justification of your question you refer to various situations that the EITB Directorate has had to manage throughout this legislature and you call them errors. Mr Unzalu, allow me to lower your claims because I believe that you are reducing the management of an entire communication group, the management of 8,760 hours per year of production, broadcasting, human resources management, budgetary control, etc., to the minimum. I don't think it's proportionate. First of all, you criticise the management of the EITB Directorate in relation to the presentation of the text of the Strategic Plan. However, it is important to note that the EITB Strategic Plan explicitly acknowledges the violation of rights caused primarily by ETA and the commitment to delegitimize terrorism. On the other hand, you have also considered it an act of treating certain news, and you have mentioned the act of Our Hand as an example, and you have not said that the performance had a great social and mediatic echo. Not just EIBn, Mr. Unzalus, he received the headlines and titles of all the newspapers published in Eukadin. The news had developed in the newspapers between four and ten pages. We live in a democratic and numerous society, and are debtors to it, as far as we are government, as we represent the institution. We must therefore be ready to manage every state according to this democracy and this diversity, and to admit reality. You know very well that our institution has the right to communicate and receive free expressions and information, in order to fulfil our tasks according to the requirements of a democratic society. For this purpose, some general principles lead the action of EIB, others the principle of equality and multiplicity. And respect for pluralism sometimes involves listening to things you don't agree with; however, we must learn to respect them. It means giving voice and giving space to each and every one of the ideologies. I believe that it has become clear that neither this Government nor EITB share, nor have they any reason to do so, the point of view reflected in each and every one of the contents issued; it would be absurd, it would be improper, it would be unacceptable interference. So let us abandon the efforts to influence EIB's content, let us let the editor of the television chain and the group do their duty, according to the principles established in the law of creating this organization, and consider professional guidelines.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u16	Yeah. Look, Mrs. Counsellor, indeed, the Strategic Plan shows what it is because they had to rectify it. And what I'm going to do is that, the corrections they've had to make. And with all due respect, counselor, look, when I mentioned Gure Esku Dago – if you go to the dates and when you prepare the answers you do well – I was not referring to the information that was given, but that on the banner of the EITB website there was a link to register for Gure Esku Dago, and you had to rectify that. That's what I was talking about. And you answer me about the information, that we said what we thought, but we have never criticized the scope of it. Okay? So, what I'm telling you is that you do what you said right here, that you were going to take steps not to make mistakes. You said that in October 2014, and what I'm asking you to do is get what you said right here. I have read your statements in this rostrum. Look, they had to rectify many times, and I don't think Basque citizenship deserves...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u17	Thank you. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u18	Mr. Unzalu. I have to say, in general terms and with the exception of some specific situation which, in fact, has been publicly recognised by the Directorate itself, that it is sometimes not right to talk about errors, but about information management, in defence of a principle of equality, of the diversity of opinions and of plurality. I believe that in cases where there have been mistakes we have recognised them and we are taking action. As I have said before, they have been purposely employed in the strategic work, on the one hand the confession of the rights produced by both, and on the other, the commitment to abolish terrorism. The EIB Manager himself pointed out that he openly rejects violence and strong commitment to all who have suffered this violence with the solidarity and support due to it. This government is confident of this commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "My name is Llanos Gómez Euspá team members of the Pogula team to the president, statements made on the homage of the vice squads of the Paris victims." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, it is obvious that jihadist terrorism is attacking our society hard. The attacks in Paris, Mali, Egypt and Tunisia, as well as images of beheadings, show the cruelest aspect of jihadist terrorism. We are faced with terrorism with different characteristics, with a different modus operandi and, therefore, we can share that its way of preventing and combating it also has to be different. Ways are different, but not ends. Jihadist terrorism, like all terrorism, tries to implement its totalitarian project, in this case using religion as a synonym for totalitarianism and as an enemy of any democratic approach. But, like the terrorism that we have suffered for a very long time on this earth, ETA terrorism, as totalitarian as it is, as fanatical as it is, as enemy of any democratic approach. It is therefore surprising that those responsible for this Government make statements such as those made by the Deputy Security Adviser at the Paris concentration in connection with the attacks of 13 November. Among other things, he said that ETA "respected the environment" – in quotes. That is why I want to say to you, Mr Lehendakari, that ETA respected the environment? What is respecting the environment? Because it's just as serious to kill 100 people as it is to kill 100 people one at a time. And, if it is to commit massacres, it has also committed massacres such as that of Hipercor, or the barracks of Zaragoza, Vich or Burgos. What is respecting the environment? Because this Monday, the 23rd, the 14th anniversary of the murder of the inertzainas Ana Isabel Arostegi and Javier Mijangos. Ana Isabel's environment was three children, 11 of 5 and 1 year old; Javier Mijangos, an 11-month-old baby. Did you respect ETA's surroundings? This murder was witnessed by two children who, frightened, terrorized, warned the municipal police. Did you respect the environment there? That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, how you appreciate these manifestations of an important office of your Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u21	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u22	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Llanos, you intend to lead us to an artificial debate which, of course, does not benefit at all from the climate of concern that citizens are experiencing with the latest attacks. No one, no one, and certainly not the Deputy Security Adviser, has sought to compare terrorism or minimize the effects of any of them, neither the terrorism present nor past terrorism. It makes no sense to go into public discussions on this matter. It does, on the other hand, have a place in technical analysis to implement the preventive measures that have been effective in the past. In fact, yesterday he was made by police technicians during his days in San Sebastián Covite. And of this, and not of anything else, was what the vice-counsel at the Plaza de la Repubblica in Paris spoke of, in the context, indeed, of the tribute to the victims of the last attacks in Paris, with the journalist who published excerpts from that conversation. But also, given the doubts that generated the news, in the headlines that we could all read, it was the deputy advisor himself who clarified the meaning of his conversation, statements that you could also read the next day. Trying to keep this debate going, turning it into a more critical dart to the government, I think it's absolutely out of place. And more in the current context. It automatically becomes a disregard for the victims and a disregard for the concern that citizens have for the drift that events are taking after that attack.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u23	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u24	Madam Counselor. The textual words were – between quotes –: "ETA tried to respect the environment, but these do not, they all don't care. They don't care and they take everything ahead and their enemy is everyone who doesn't think like him." Was ETA not using this same thing? It is true that they are different – I have told you this – and perhaps policely you have to attack them differently, but that does not mean that it does not have the same gravity. All terrorisms, whether that of ETA, whether that of the GAL or the jihadist, must have the same consideration and the same rejection, and that a vice-advisor of a department on which a police force such as the Ertzaintza, who has suffered in his own flesh the terrorist attacks of a band, says that that band respected the environment, do not understand neither the agents of the Ertzaintza nor the citizenship. Believe me, Counselor. It is not understood that a different consideration can be given to terrorists because they wear txapela and hood, and to others who wear turbans. Terrorism is the same, the same, comes from where it comes from. It's just as totalitarian. And the constancy in the rejection and definition of his fanatical action must be the same. We must all fight, not only to prevent terrorist acts, but also to delegitimize terrorism. And in that fight of delegitimization, we do little favor if we begin to look for different levels of reproach depending on the color that terrorism has. You have to be careful. And more so when you have a great responsibility like the one Mr. Vice-Counselor had. And when public statements are made, there must be respect for the victims of terrorism. And these, believe me, weren't at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u25	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u26	I insist, Mrs Llanos, that the attempt to maintain this artificial debate is not good for the victims who have suffered from terrorism, nor for those who continue to suffer from the pain caused by terrorism, to feed this absolutely artificial debate. He intends to bring us in and make us believe that the rest of us are... I don't know, a zero left in the debate and in the fight against terrorism and in support of the victims. He intends to make us believe that you are..., I don't know, Robin Hood of all the anti-terrorism and all the victims, but this little, little helps the climate of understanding that these issues require. ETA was what it was. ETA was what it was. And the acts of terror he practiced were what they were. Luckily, we're talking today in the past. But we remain concerned, indeed, about how not, how not, support for the victims. Of course, without any ambiguity, and this is what we owe. Today, the greatest concern is the fight against terrorism against jihad, against international jihadism. We all have an obligation to do everything in our hand to prevent them from breaking in and causing more pain, but weak favor we do to the cause with these artificial debates, above all, with interpretations of interpretations, with the sole objective of competing politically to see who is more than who in the test of cotton of anti-terrorism. And proof of that is that we will immediately have to answer another similar question that UPyD is going to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u27	Thank you. Quiet, please. Five point in theme list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team has made to the president, and that the viceroyal department has expressed the difference between terrorism and the terrorism of the band." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u28	Thank you, President. Good morning. Madam Councilwoman, it turns out that we will have the fault of the opposition groups, that we are under an obligation to control the action of the government and, indeed, to be attentive to everything you do and say. And the truth is that again we have to go down to this rostrum to ask for controversial statements from a leader, in this case, from the Basque Government itself. Some extraordinarily serious words. Are you going to apologize for the statements of this vice-counsel? Because, indeed, the victims are outraged. The victims are outraged, and therefore the least you should ask is forgiveness, apologies, indeed. The question, indeed, is the same: do you share the Vice-Adviser's statements when he said that everything is terrorism, but ETA was trying – in quotes – to "respect the general environment"? When has ETA respected the general environment? When? When you put dozens of car bombs on Vic, on Hypercor, on the T4? When has ETA respected the general environment? Can't you be anything more sensitive to the victims of terrorism? Can't you treat them better? Can't you ask for forgiveness? Can't you just assume your mistakes? Can they not respect the action of the groups in this House who try to remind them of their obligations? And you, Mr Lehendakari, cannot answer this question? Don't you have the courage to answer this question? He's hiding again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u30	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. What is clear, Mr Maneiro, is that ETA terrorism and jihadist terrorism are different in terms of their different objectives, and the forms of protection and prevention are different. It was also said these days ago by Dolores Delgado, the prosecutor of the National Court that coordinates the fight against jihadist terrorism. Neither from this nor from any other statement of the Deputy Security Advisor can deduce anyone – I insist, nobody – what you are raising and what you have raised in making the justification of the question. To say, affirm as you do that with your statements the Deputy Security Advisor despises the pain of the victims of ETA by trying to minimize and trivialize what represented ETA terrorism is out of place, absolutely out of place and surpasses all the red lines of any political debate in democracy. Mr Maneiro, I share every day, day by day, with the Vice-Adviser the analyses that in terms of security and security risks are carried out and carried out the Ertzaintza, and I assure you, I assure you, it is far from the false debate that you continue to feed for your own political benefit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u31	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u32	Yes, Madam Counsellor, yes, Mr Lehendakari, you despise the pain of the victims. The most they have been able to say about ETA in the last few minutes and in response to these questions is that ETA was what it was. That's all you've dared to say. Certainly sad and certainly pitiful. Look, the Deputy Counsellor, yourself and Mr Lehendakari must know that there are absolute categories and relative categories. The former do not admit graduation, and the latter do. The examples are diverse. Thus, pettyness or being a vice-counselor are gradable. One may occasionally be a petty or a vice-advisor, but there are categories that cannot be mitigated, such as murder. One, either he's a murderer or he's not. No one is a bit of a murderer or a criminal, and besides, death is the absolute category. There are no murderers, therefore, who respect the environment. Conversely, the environment is his enemy. We are all enemies of terrorism. Everyone's looking for us. And, therefore, this is what you should say and what the vice-counsel should have said, not trying to sell us the idea that there are worse and worse terrorisms or less bad terrorisms. This is what the vice-counselor came to say, and if he was wrong and if it was a mistake, what he has to do is apologize and he has not done so. And neither have you. And he attacks the opposition instead of saying, "Actually, he expressed himself badly, he didn't mean what he said, we apologize, the victims deserve all our respect." No, you're incapable of saying that. Finally, the only thing that is true, therefore, is that the Vice-Adviser and yourself, with your answer, have forgotten, in the end, to respect two things that I believe to be sacred: the memory of the dead and the pain of the victims. Memory and pain that they do not understand of degrees, nor excuses, nor petty excuses, and that should form the emotional basis of a public office and of any leader of this government. There is once again a lack of absolute respect for the victims of terrorism. In a few years they'll apologize again. You have time. Apologize now, say it was a mistake and that the victims deserve all their respect. Do it, you can do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u34	How sad, Mr. Maneiro, how sad, how sad...!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u35	A ver, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u36	To question at this stage the commitment to the fight against terrorism and the commitment to the victims of this government! How sad, how sad, how sad! Look, the vice-counselman commented on what he commented, clarified what he clarified. To make interpretations, as I have said, of interpretations leads to nothing; nothing but to try to draw political results of one's own. It is true that jihadist terrorism has long been reaping victims, reaping lives and sowing terror, and it continues to do so with different methods and practices and by its own ideological proclamations. And that is the terrorism that worries us the most today, that is the terrorism that worries us the most today. Following this controversy, I will remind you: Covite, the group of victims of terrorism, addressed a letter to the vice-counsel, with which we share two things: on the one hand, that today it is more important than ever to highlight that terrorism attacks everything that does not commune with its interests, particular interests or ideologies; on the other hand, it said that we must be careful with the impact of our analyses, of our statements in the media, with the impact that these declarations can have not only on the victims of terrorism but, above all, on future generations, Mr Maneiro. Absolutely according to those reflections. Hence his allegations of manipulation... well, it seems to me to be of total political surrealism. And I believe that with this attitude you, look, you limit yourself in your capacity precisely to collaborate in the coexistence of future generations and to understand the pain of all victims.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u37	Thank you. I beg you all to keep quiet while you're not... Carmelo, I'm talking to you, too. Please, when a person is speaking here, a parliamentary or the President himself, I beg you to respect the rest, for they are respectfully listening to you all. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, my brother, in the USEGómez, a member of the Pogula team, made to the president of the treaty against jihadism." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on the guttioi brerriro. Good morning again, Mr. Lehendakari. I hope that after this interpellation you will not call me Robin Hood nor think that this group presents this interpellation with an interest neither electoralist nor partyist, but the fruit of something we have already expressed, and it is the great concern for the moments we are living. On Friday, the 13th, all of Europe, all of Spain and all of Euskadi, was shocked to see how the severity of the events of the terrorist attacks that were taking place in Paris increased for minutes. Mali, Egypt, Tunisia have joined this, and the response to this horror scenario has been unanimous: all the institutions, all the political forces, all the citizens must be united to confront that fanaticism and that totalitarianism, to confront those who want to destroy those spaces of coexistence and freedom. And the Basques cannot stand by in that united response that international society is demanding of politics and politicians at such a time of concern. It can't be that the Basques don't add up. As I was telling you, the latest attacks in Paris on 13 November and subsequent attacks in Mali, Egypt and Tunisia only increase the need to go hand in hand to deal with such a large terrorist threat. That is the most immediate and important response that politics can offer to a situation like the current one: about two hundred people killed in fifteen days. The political parties in Euskadi, in this House, must, we must offer political unity, go hand in hand and stand together in the face of terrorism in a firm and democratic way above ideas, above interests, above strategies. Political unity to reject terrorism and condemn barbarism. Unity to give a political and legal response to the formulas that may acquire the threat of terrorism. That is the best democratic response, and that is precisely what the whole society as a whole is asking for from politicians these days. Mr Urkullu, I am sure you will know what I am saying to you because in this Parliament, in this very House, you have appealed to that democratic unity, to that need for unity in the face of terrorism, because unfortunately the Basques have suffered in their own flesh the consequences of the terrorist threat, and we must recognize that and we must be aware of that. Some, perhaps because they still do not condemn that terrorist past, because they still do not want to see the reality of that bloody past, because they still want to cover up their shameful silence, do not want to make the slightest reference to that past that existed. But that past existed, that past is there and that past needs to be recognized. And in that past we could see that the important thing, the fundamental thing, is the unity of the Democrats in the fight against ETA, unity to fight against ETA, which I do not doubt that the Basque Government maintains. More than once, you have claimed the need to act together against those who have for so long trampled upon the most basic and elementary rights of the Basques. He is therefore well aware of what I am talking about, and he is well aware of the courage, as he said, that he has that unity of democratic action, that tenacity so as not to yield to blackmail and the terrorist threat. Because it was precisely that attitude that contributed best to the defeat of terrorism on our land, to the defeat of ETA, that unity of all democrats against fanaticism and against barbarism. That is why it is so difficult for the Basques to understand the position of their Government and of the party that supports them in this House, their unwillingness to add to an issue in which the value of the sum multiplies. Because experience should serve us all – also you and your party – to realize that only from political unity will we find a certain and effective response in the fight against terrorism. And we realize that the answer we are able to offer in a situation like the current one is not going to go unnoticed in anyone's eyes. And you should be aware of this and act with your responsibility; responsibility to place Basques at the forefront of European societies that are betting and fighting for freedom. Responsibility for us to go together with the rest of the Spaniards and the rest of the Europeans in this fight against barbarism and terrorism. Unfortunately, as I was telling you, it has been up to us to live together for a long time with the damage caused by a terrorist organization that is willing to take everything forward with the force of guns and bombs. In this trajectory, as I said, we have been able to see the enormous value that political unity represents in preserving democratic values, in weakening the terrorist threat itself. There are no excuses, no excuses to fight for unanimity among all democrats. There is nothing to do with matters that are nothing, nothing to do with the most important objective we have as public representatives at the moment: to take action from the unit that reduces the threat of the emergence of terrorist cells and avoids terrorist attacks. I am convinced that with the will to agree, with the willingness to be in the political agreement that the whole of international society is demanding and demanding at the moment, that joint photograph of all the Democrats in Euskadi is also possible. Because there may be differences in other matters, but it is not, Mr Lehendakari, it is not. As I said at the beginning of this intervention, when we have about two hundred people killed by terrorist barbarism in fifteen days, there is no other answer than to tie your shoulder and stand together in the face of terrorism. Because we cannot tolerate people's rights being trampled on that way, we cannot tolerate Friday 13 as the one we suffered in Paris fifteen days ago, we cannot tolerate that in our society those who have contempt for human life, those who only want to destroy the foundations of our society, are gaining space. We can, as I said, disagree on many things, we will keep many differences, because precisely that means democratic debate, talking and letting talk and respect. But when it comes to dealing with terrorism, when it comes to defending democracy, we must be together, because that is our main force. That's the best way we have to tell the guns and the bombs that we are many more and that we are not willing to submit to their dictatorship. The Basques have an important experience at a time like the present, and, of course, that experience we cannot forget. We must not forget that the pact, the agreement, the understanding, the unity between all democratic parties against ETA were decisive attitudes to combat terrorism. I will read you a paragraph of a document that is many years old, but whose spirit, whose postulates are still in full force: "The Government of the Autonomous Community, with the active support of the representatives of the Basque people, is called to lead all political and social action against violence". I'm sure you know him. It belongs to the Covenant of Ajuria-Enea. It was that important deal in Euskadi. He came to demonstrate that all Basques and all Basque institutions could and should unite in order, from that unity, to confront terrorism, to join also the Government of Spain, to urge international collaboration for the prevention of attacks and the persecution of their perpetrators. The Pact for Freedom and Counter-Terrorism was later signed. It also highlighted that combating terrorism is a task for all parties. They did not join that pact. In February, after fanaticism ended with satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, the pact against jihadist terrorism was managed. You didn't sign it either. I would therefore like to ask you, as the highest authority of the Basque Government, what measures you will take to prevent jihadist terrorism from nesting on this earth and preventing terrorist attacks. Will it lead the process of coordinated action among political parties? Are you going to lead the incorporation of Euskadi, the PNV, into the anti-jihadist pact?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u39	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u40	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. It has been in the last sentence in which he has already definitely mentioned what he was hiding throughout his intervention, the anti-jihadist pact and the appeal to the addition to it of the Basque Nationalist Party. I wonder in your question what your Government's purpose is to participate within its sphere of competence in how many measures must be taken to prevent the development of fanatical germs that give rise to jihadist cells and to prevent terrorist acts. This is the interpellation, Mrs. Llanos. Well, I want to begin my first intervention by making clear the position of the Basque Government in the fight against radical jihadist terrorism. We are acting in all areas of our competence, in all areas of our competence: prevention, security, social integration, education, cooperation, solidarity. I know very well the text of the anti-jihadist pact, I know it and therefore I know what I am responding to in what is within my competence or the competence of the Basque Government. Look, from a public standpoint, the whole of Basque society, the institutions and all the Basque political parties have rejected and condemned the attacks committed in recent weeks, both in Europe and in Africa. There have been events that have filled us with pain and dismay. We have directed our solidarity and closeness to the families of the victims and their relatives, we have participated in public gatherings convened with the aim of extending awareness against terrorism and in favour of human dignity, freedom and the culture of peace. And, Mrs Llanos, the calls have been communicated for the sake of that unit to which she has often appealed during her speech, for the sake of that unit they have been communicated to the highest representatives of the political formations with parliamentary representation in the Basque Parliament. They have been communicated to the highest institutional representatives of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (deputies-general, President of Eudel, President of Parliament). And they've been communicated by me, in person, and it can be witnessed by the people I'm referring to. I attach particular importance to this response. It's essential. It conveys the moral and ethical strength with which our society advances, the foundations of a commitment to coexistence that is sustained in a solid education in values. A country like ours, which has suffered the pain and consequences of terrorism, must be supportive and understand the situation that other peoples experience when they suffer terrorist actions. This solidarity has been shared, expressed and expressed without nuances by Basque society. A sense of solidarity that is based on the conviction that Euskadi is not alien to terrorism and expressions of radical violence. That's what I said in the call for the first rally after the Paris bombings. We always stand out more than we live closer, or in those countries with which we share a greater relationship, or with those with which we feel closer, but the feeling of solidarity also responds to a principle of equality, and we have wanted to express it. I believe it is important that before we begin to discuss the measures to be taken in the face of terrorism we have the capacity to share principles and a strong ethical basis, and I am sure that you do not doubt the democratic convictions and ethical commitment of the Lehendakari, the Basque Government or the Basque Nationalist Party. Because, if you raised this doubt, the debate in this House would have an unabated starting point for me and, therefore, outside of everything that is political reality. Look, the first step that has been and will continue to be taken by our Government is part of the total rejection of any violence and terrorism, starting with which we are suffering in Europe with radical jihadism. That is the same attitude that we have maintained in the past with ETA terrorism, a conviction that has led the Basque Government to combat terrorism and the Ertzaintza to cooperate decisively at its end. That same attitude, that principle of responsibility with the society to which it must protect, that same duty as an integral police continues to be developed by the Ertzaintza, now against radical jihadist terrorism and before against that of ETA. In the area of prevention and security, we are working with the rest of the police forces and we have put forward the necessary protocols to prevent and try to prevent any terrorist attacks in Euskadi. The Ertzaintza is carrying out its prevention and intelligence activity based on the level 4 alert established by the Ministry of the Interior. We are well aware that Euskadi is not free from the threat. The police are working, and our job is to prevent any kind of violent act and prevent radical jihadist movements from reproducing in Euskadi, and at this point I also want to remind you that we are working in constant contact and collaboration with the Basque Islamic community, joining us in the goal of advancing social integration and education for coexistence. The Islamic community has publicly protested against attacks on its religion, and is collaborating to prevent feelings leading to radicalization and violent actions. They do not want or want religion to be confused with terrorism. In the inquiry you have presented you refer to measures to avoid the germ of fanaticism. I have cited the need to strengthen our ethical and moral principles, to be exemplary in our public positions and statements, to help highlight our unity of judgement. In order to eradicate terrorism, institutional and political cooperation, prevention, intelligence and the provision of the necessary police means and protocols are essential, and this is our day-to-day, Mrs Llanos. Moreover, our continued work must be to bet on a cohesive, integrated and educated society that prevents the germ of every violent radical movement, and that is our will and that is how we are working, Mrs Llanos. I will not be the one to go beyond the limits of prudence in the area of security, I believe that the institutions must foster collaboration, and that is what our Government is calling for. Look, last week, for the first time the Ministry of the Interior convened the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Ertzaintza to a coordination meeting after the Paris bombings. It has been a short-term meeting that I hope and demand will become structural. The people representing our police attended the work meeting. We will continue to do so every time we are called on, because we have claimed it in our recognized and assumed status as an integral police force. The Spanish Government must continue to take steps in this direction. They are aware of the importance of the presence of Ertzaintza in the Schengen security forums and of the relevance of Ertzaintza's access to information sources and databases on international terrorism. They are necessary measures to ensure security, and we would like to have a new spirit of cooperation on the part of the Spanish Government of the People's Party to make them effective. I conclude by reiterating, in addition to having observed points 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the anti-Jihadist pact, to which you mentioned in your last sentence, 4, 5, 6 and 7, that I believe it is those who are in conflict with what is the competence of the Basque Government, by which I am asked, not so much the rest of the points of that anti-Jihadist pact; nor do I have to respond to the decision of the Basque Nationalist Party, but to the contribution to what are the measures to prevent the germ of terrorist fanaticism that the Basque Government can implement. And I reiterate the commitments as the Basque Government in the area of our competence: institutional commitment to face up to terrorism and to active solidarity with the victims; police and intelligence commitment (all our information and prevention resources are the service of collaboration and coordination with all the police); commitment to solidarity and cooperation for development, especially in those countries most hit by the threat of radical jihadist terrorism; social commitment to continue promoting policies of interreligious and intercultural coexistence, cohesion policies, integration and participation; commitment to an education in values, which promotes respect and coexistence that will enable us to advance in a true culture of peace in Euskadi and in the world. I believe in prevention and security, I believe in education in values, the culture of peace, respect for all people and multicultural integration, and we assume and serve all these competences. And I also affirm, quite bluntly, that war is not the means to prevent fanatical germs that give rise to jihadist cells. I have declared my opposition to the war. We are facing a global problem and a common European defence policy, supported by the United Nations, is needed. Experience shows that a global response is more effective than actions of each state with short-term visions, sometimes taken in the heat of electoral decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u42	Mr Lehendakari, you were asking me almost at the beginning of your speech why I was asking you about participation in the anti-jihadist pact: because it shows that the best instrument to combat the various forms of the terrorist threat is the response of all institutions, starting with governments and parliaments. This pact, it is true that it began with two political parties, but yesterday we saw that many more had been incorporated, and all those who joined came to say the same thing, that unity and joint action were important. They came to say that, although they disagreed with some nuances, however, they shared the substance. Do you think you can't share the substance with that anti-jihadist pact? Do you believe that the party to which you belong, which is the support of your Government, cannot share the substance of that anti-jihadist pact? Do you believe that as the highest authority in this country you cannot lead precisely the incorporation into that anti-jihadist pact? Because he spoke in the first intervention of the importance of unity and of the example of the Ajuria Enea pact, a pact in which the Basque Government, at that time, was driving, precisely, for us all to fight terrorism together. Then the agreement was a necessity, because the citizens demanded it from politicians. And that unity, besides being important, as I said in my first speech, was fundamental. And that same unity that the Basques demanded of us at the time continues to demand from us now, Mr Lehendakari, because Euskadi is also under the jihadist threat. This is not about solidarity, Euskadi is also part of the jihadist threat. From the same experience that I told you of having faced ETA terrorism, the Government you preside must now be able to take a step forward and to bring Basque society to that movement of political unity that citizens demand. Suffering from ETA and being able to defeat it makes the position of Basque society and Euskadi with regard to terrorism have a special, qualitatively different meaning. And it would be irresponsible – believe me, irresponsible – and citizens would not understand it, putting partisan criteria, political conveniences in a context like the current one. And it's not really where we have to be. If anyone knows the value of the unity of all in the face of terrorism, have the acronyms that have that terrorism and come from wherever it comes from, we are the Basques, because we have learned it by force to suffer fanaticism for many years. And you know that, Mr Urkullu, and your political party knows that, the party that supports your government knows that. He knows how important it is to join forces, to agree on measures, that there is a picture that is much more than a picture – let's not trivialize – that there is a picture of all the parties united. And if you know, why do you have so much trouble taking the step? Why is it so hard for them to join that pact? I would like you today to be able to make up for the differences you have, if you do not allow yourself to be dragged away by other objectives other than the obligation to plant us all together in the face of terrorism. May you be able, as I told you before, to put us at the forefront of unity with all democrats. That you would be able to put the Basques in our rightful place, which is only at the head of political and democratic unity to fight terrorism. Believe me, an important and symbolic piece at this time is the anti-jihadist pact. Do it, Mr. Lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u43	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Llanos, the eight points of the anti-jihadist pact: First, change of the Penal Code. Second, permanent, reviewable prison. Third, national security and criminal prosecution laws. Fourthly, to maintain the memory of the victims of terrorism. Fifth, to ensure the human, material and economic resources necessary to combat terrorism more effectively. Sixthly, implement effective active policies in the eradication of any form of violent radicalization. Seventh, to promote policies in the European Union and in international institutions of prevention, persecution, cooperation and criminal sanctions against terrorism. And eighth, to promote initiatives in the Courts with the aim of reaching the broadest consensus among the political forces with parliamentary representation. I referred in my first speech to points 4, 5, 6 and 7, which I believe fall within the competence of the Basque Government. I have conveyed to him the ethical and moral principles of the Lehendakari and the Basque Government in the face of radical jihadist terrorism, I have transmitted to him the institutional commitment to these principles, which is shared by the whole of Basque society. I have conveyed to you the prevention and safety work that Ertzaintza is doing. Look, President Mariano Rajoy himself personally conveyed to me the information available and his objective of shared work in this area. And for my part, I conveyed to him the full cooperation of the Basque Government, and so I communicated it to the highest representatives or leaders of political formations with parliamentary representation. Its president of the People's Party of the Basque Country has not answered me, and it can be testified by all the highest representatives of the political groups with parliamentary representation, what is my disposition, even for the transmission of necessary information and coordination. President Rajoy also committed himself to maintaining communication on the basis of the events and institutional initiatives to be proposed. Until today, until today. Look, it has been he himself who has claimed loyalty in the fight against radical jihadist terrorism and who has called for no partisan use to be made of this matter. And this is the attitude of the Lehendakari and the Basque Government, and I make the same appeal: loyalty and non-partisan use. You want to take the unique legitimacy in this matter and ask the Basque Government for explanations when you are fully aware of our institutional position, which I reiterated in the first intervention, based on what are the signs of solidarity. They are clear too, and they know them, our commitment and our work. In addition to you, it is Basque society that knows the attitude of our Government towards terrorism and that of each of the political parties, and also that of the People's Party in Euskadi. Therefore, I too call upon you, Mrs Llanos, to the People's Party, loyalty and non-partisan use. I hope that the concern of the People's Party for the Basque Government to take as many measures as possible to prevent terrorist fanaticism will include supporting and strengthening its own capacity for action, including information and collaboration, accessing sources of international terrorism, including providing a structural first meeting between comprehensive policies that has taken more than 30 years to come; including the urgent convening of the Security Board for the coordinated relationship between the two Governments. I hope, at last, that they will help the People's Party to distinguish clearly the institutional action of the political initiative, Mrs Llanos (point 8 of the anti-jihadist pact; apply it). And at the highest institutional level in the country, I reiterate our full commitment to all measures to prevent germs of fanaticism that give rise to jihadist cells and contribute to preventing terrorist acts. And have no doubt, Mrs Llanos, that when it is necessary to appeal to the unity of political formations in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, Euskadi, I will do so without any type of stamp, because I believe in it and have done so – I insist – in the transmission of the conversation that I had with President Rajoy, and have done so on two occasions when I believe that the Basque Government has led the convocation of concentrations, taking absolutely loyal care of political formations with parliamentary representation and the highest institutions, or the highest institutional representatives of our country, Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask you, Ichasus González, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to the president, concerning the list of financial institutions which are not paid by the Basque communities." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u46	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, on 10 April 2014, the plenary of the Basque Parliament approved an agreement whose fourth point called on its government to make public the list of unpaid financial institutions in the communities of owners, allocating to each of them the sum of the debts due for these concepts. The raison d'être of this question has to do with the fact that in successive reports of compliance with parliamentary agreements I have found no explanation why this agreement has not been implemented. Moreover, in fact I have found no mention of this agreement, which is 71/2014. I can understand how uncomfortable it is for the government to implement these kinds of agreements; however, I understand that, if Basque farms are going to carry out the publication of the lists of late ones – which, on the other hand, seems very good to me – we believe that there should be no difficulty in publishing the list of financial institutions which in a recalcitrant way are in arrears with the communities of neighbours. That is why we ask you whether the Basque Government intends to fulfil the mandate approved on 10 April 2014 in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u48	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. As you know, Mr. Ichaso, a proposition was accepted, as well as last year, and at the last moment was made public by Eucommy in the non-profit community of financial institutions. After the adoption of the above-mentioned non-law proposal from the Department of Employment and Social Policy, and in advance of taking any decision, we consider it appropriate – and you will understand it, Mr Itxaso – to make a comprehensive report on the situation of lateness in the communities of owners, so that through the sources themselves we know the real scope of this problem. Thus, in December 2014, a report of the Basque Housing Observatory was published on the lateness of banking in the communities of owners. For the statistical study it was used as a source that could not be other than that of the Schools of Farm Administrators of Bizkaia, Álava and Gipuzkoa, through which real data were obtained from a total of 105 farm administrators, who together manage 3,764 communities of owners of the Autonomous Community. This report concluded, first, that 247 of the 3,764 owner communities from which information was obtained, i.e. 6.6 per cent, are financial entities that own some of the community's housing. Secondly, the debt corresponding to the financial institutions of this group was EUR 222,057, i.e. 6.03 % of the total accumulated debt, which amounted to EUR 3.68 million, and therefore a similar proportion to the representation of financial institutions as homeowners in all the communities of owners, as seen in the light of the data.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u49	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u50	Well, counselor, that's fine with me. In fact, that agreement to which he has referred is also based on a report by the Basque Housing Observatory, which stated, among other things, that this recent cash flow contrasts precisely with the increase in mortgage default executions, a contradictory behaviour that must require immediate correction. The refusal to pay by financial institutions is found to be a widespread behaviour. In conclusion, the delay in paying the fees of the communities of owners to which they belong is a surprising paradox." Finally, on this report by the Basque Housing Observatory, which was taken into account in adopting the agreement here, which was finally to say that the list of late entities should be raised and published with the communities of neighbours, you have not answered this question which is nuclear: whether the Government, after successive reports, studies and analyses, will publish or not, because it would also be a paradox that the lists of late individuals could be published – which, as I say, seems good to me to be tax debtors; even, that public mockery would lead to other types of conduct – but that legal persons who act in this way, such as the Basque Housing Observatory's own report says, do not finish publishing, do not suffer that mockery, when it would also be a deterrent for them to actually deal with payments, because, probably, appearing on those lists, would be sufficient deterrent for them to cease that behaviour and conduct. But you, Mr. Counsellor, do not answer the question raised very succinctly and very schematically. Hence the question: are they going to publish? Because, of course, the data and figures that you have given us, in the end, will certainly be more accurate than those of that other first report of the Basque Housing Observatory in which you also made an estimate. The amounts given were much higher, of course, and with regard to the percentage of incidence of this lateness compared to what are the total figures also spoke of a higher percentage. Surely, these data are more closely related to reality, but whatever they are, what is clearly antisocial is the conduct of these financial entities, because, in addition, it ended up saying the report of the Basque Housing Observatory that "the effective coverage of the maintenance duty of the buildings owned by the owners, which is required from the scope of the public administrations", a subject that we also talked about last week in a debate that brought this group to this House. That is to say, that is also at stake; therefore, what we are asking of you is that beyond these always necessary and convenient analyses, and once the data are more precisely known, that list is published and that this parliamentary agreement is complied with. I therefore ask you to give me a clear answer whether it is going to be published or not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Sea. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u52	Thank you. Mr. Sea, after the first report on personality, the Housing Survey is finishing the second study, and it uses the same information. It helps us to evaluate the evolution of bank organizations. Before taking decisions such as the one proposed by this Parliament and the one you are asking for, we believe that it is necessary to know the real extent of this problem, since, on the basis of the data provided by the statistics I have just mentioned, it can be concluded that the weight of bank arrears in Euskadi is lower than that observed at state level, 6% compared to 19% in the state, and this second report on bank arrears will dictate to us whether or not we need to adopt measures such as the proposal. In any case, in the Department of Employment and Social Policy, apart from the private relations that take place in the communities of owners and from the sphere of public housing policies, we continue and will continue to promote all the tools that enable banks to mobilize – which is the fundamental thing – empty housing that they have in stock, such as the agreements for the rental of these homes signed with Kutxabank, Laboral Kutxa, La Caixa and Sareb that have already been made. It seems to us that this work is much more important. On the basis of the data we have, we will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u53	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Gorka Maniroy's Misto with the House of UUPyD members made to the president about falsification of the academic files for the reduction of the penalties due to his colleagues." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u54	Thank you, President. Mr. Lehendakari. On 19 October, Covite filed a complaint with the National Court against 76 prisoners and ETA express for allegedly using false documentation for the purpose of accessing university studies at UPV and UNED, thereby reducing their convictions. Covite submits that the prisoners submitted false documents to be able to register and that as a result some of the prisoners managed to reduce their sentences. In the opinion of Covite, the prisoners and the defendants have committed an offence of continued use of false documentation, as described in article 393 of the Criminal Code. The National Court, recently, on 17 November, admitted to the proceedings and decided, therefore, to investigate the complaint submitted by Covite. The judge has requested the UPV and the Bergara UNED to provide the certificates that the prisoners submitted for the screening of selectivity or access to university training through the access course for over 25 years of age. Therefore, there is a case and a matter to investigate. The truth is that UPyD presented and defended a few months ago in this Parliament a parliamentary initiative to create a commission of inquiry that could politically investigate the facts denounced at the time by Covite, an initiative that the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu and the Socialist Group decided to overthrow with their votes; they did not, therefore, even want to investigate this very serious matter. The question I ask you, lehendakari, is whether the Basque Government is going to carry out any kind of political research, whether it is going to do anything about this issue and whether it is going to support Covite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, you, in addition to the wording of the question you have verbalized, also use in your question the statement "beyond legal proceedings" when it comes to clarifying this issue judicially. Look, as you have always done, the University of the Basque Country will provide all the documentation required of you, respect the resolution and act accordingly. You yourself referred to the proposal you made on the establishment of a political inquiry committee, and Parliament, as you yourself have also reflected, has analysed your proposal and rejected it for the representation you have quoted, which is a large majority, 85 % to be exact, of the Basque House. The Basque Government shares and takes this decision. Now, you are asking me plainly and plainly to fail to comply with this Parliament's decision, and I am not going to do so. In addition, you have received a reply to this same question this year and in this House from the Rector of the University, the Counsellor and myself. And I repeat to you again: the Constitution expressly confirms that the end of the sentence is the re-education and re-socialization of the prisoner, that university studies are a positive factor in this line, that the studies carried out by these persons are guaranteed by a protocol approved unanimously at the Governing Council of the University on 28 October 2004, and that this protocol is ratified by Judgment 206/2011 of the Constitutional Court. Look, before the open procedure the University and the Government themselves will collaborate with all the requirements of the judicial investigation. You do not intend to stand above judicial and institutional decisions, Mr Maneiro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u58	Yeah. Mr Lehendakari, there has been a novelty in relation to that debate held in this House a few months ago, and that is that in this case, and in the light of this new complaint by Covite, the National Court has, in fact, admitted to the proceedings and has therefore decided to investigate that complaint submitted by Covite. Therefore, there is that novelty, that the judge is going to investigate this case. And we think it is a matter of investigating this case judicially, but also politically; I think this is an outstanding matter. It is a question of investigating, in fact, politically also the favored treatment given by certain elements of the UPV to prisoners of ETA, while some teachers looked elsewhere and others, however, played their lives and had to be exiled. That is why it seems to me to be a very important matter, and that is why I was asking him, indeed, what the Government is going to do and whether he is going to support Covite in his demands. In any case, Mr Lehendakari, I believe that in Euskadi we have a pending issue, a very important one: it is a question of recognizing and paying the relevant tribute to all those university professors who have faced ETA for years, many of whom have been exiled as a result. This official tribute has not yet been made. And we in this regard are going to present an initiative, today, to ask the Government and the UPV, indeed, to pay this official tribute to those teachers who fought so much against ETA. And in addition to this I will also give you today of a report prepared by Maite Pagazaurtundua with prologue of Carlos Martínez Gorriaran and epilogue of Fernando Savater, The professors of the UPV in front of ETA. Very interesting. I have only underlined one sentence in this report, a phrase by Fernando Savater: "We are still waiting for the official recognition to be given to them, not for what they suffered, but for what they fought for." How do you see that tribute? Would he?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u59	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Vice-Governor. It comes back again with the fact that since this Parliament took a decision there has been a change because the National Court has decided to admit to proceedings and to address a judicial investigation. You argue that in addition to the judicial investigation there must be a political investigation. Well, I repeat that there has been a decision by the Basque Parliament and I do what is the decision by the Basque Parliament in this case. He refers to the tributes to the teachers. To enter the path of sectoral tributes seems to me to be very delicate, Mr Maneiro, very delicate. All the victims of persecution, not only the fatal victims, the victims wounded by terrorism, all the victims of persecution have been through past legislatures contemplated in what have also been pronouncements of this Parliament, of the previous Basque governments and also in acts in recognition of what has been the suffering that by persecution has suffered – worth redundancy – many people, not only university professors. And we have had a very clear example of university professors in past legislatures; I therefore believe that the solidarity of all political formations is clearly expressed, if not in their entirety, but in their majority. Look, Mr Maneiro, you are raising a question that goes back 14 years and you are doing it again. And on each occasion again questions also the honorability, the honorability, yes, Mr. Maneiro, whether of the public university, or of the institutions, or of the people responsible for the management... I, for my part, stress the course of the university, its permanent willingness to cooperate with justice, its commitment to the transparency and clarity with which it has offered the explanations that have also been demanded of it in this parliamentary forum, the rigour with which it guarantees the quality and security of the public service it offers. Look, the Basque public university is a respectable and respected institution, and it has an approved protocol, and it adheres to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members made for the president on television." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u62	Thank you, President. Madam Counsellor, I bring what I think is a novel subject; it is not essential, surely, but we do consider it to be important. A few weeks ago we asked the government about the Sunday Mass issued by ETB1. What was the Government's response? EITB reported that the retransmission of the Catholic ritual Mass through the ETB1 channel has been taking place since 1986, with a faithful audience, and that it is the responsibility of the diocesan authorities to organize and rotate them by different peoples, in order to facilitate the visibility and richness of the artistic-cultural heritage of the temples of the Basque Country. It is also reported in this written reply that it is an external producer that conducts the broadcasts and that the cost has been almost 3,000 euros per mass in 2014 and almost 2,800 euros in this year. I ask you, Counsellor: do you consider it reasonable for Basque public television to keep in its programming the retransmission of Sunday Mass, especially in view of the fact that we live in a confessional state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u63	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u64	President andrea, eskerrik asko. In the first place, Senor Maniro, I'd like to specify an account of the contents of your questions and questions of the same kind. It seems to me that the questions and answers you address to Mr. ETB on account of your programming, and the personal opinion of what was said in the sentence, can be interpreted as a transfer to the government. ETB works in autonomous fashion, according to professional criteria, and the Eusko Mitch won't go into ETB's work. That shade sounds important to me. Replying to your question, Mr Maneiro, I sincerely believe that the issue of Sunday morning Mass is mostly accepted by society, by those who follow it on ETB1 and by those who do not tune in with that programme. There are emissions that are linked to a channel, and this is for 29 years of continuous emission. We live in a confessional state, but there are situations in which religion or tradition linked to religion, whether a believer or not, directly or indirectly affects our day to day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u66	Yes, thank you. Counselor, you answer me that, in fact, EITB operates in an autonomous way, but in any case I asked you for your opinion and the Government's opinion on this issue. And, indeed, you have answered me yes, that it seems reasonable to you that ETB1 issues mass every Sunday. It does not seem reasonable to us that a public television broadcasts every Sunday or guard parties. It doesn't seem reasonable to us at all. We live, indeed, in an aconfessional State; unfortunately, we do not yet live in a secular State, but we live in an aconfessional State, and I therefore believe that public authorities and also public television, public radio, must remain neutral in all religious beliefs. And I therefore believe that the answer given by this Government, by EITB in relation to this question, because it does not have sufficient weight, does not have sufficient justification when it is explained that what is intended is, in the end, to make known to Basque citizens the artistic heritage of Euskadi. It makes no sense that in 2015 a public television, in this autonomous case, broadcasts mass on Sundays, makes no sense. I say that we do not live in a secular state, unfortunately, yet, but we live in a confessional state. It is a debate that I believe has never been discussed in this House, but I believe it is a matter of importance, and UPyD has wanted to bring it to this Parliament. We will see what happens in the future, but in any case our position is that as a secular party. I think it makes no sense that a public television broadcasts every Sunday, it makes no sense, and even regardless of the hearings or regardless of the cost, it makes no sense and, therefore, this is a principle that we defend in Euskadi and anywhere in Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u67	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u68	Mr. Maniro, I really think it's not all white or black. You say the number of spectators following their emission isn't enough to justify it in the show. Not even to reveal to us the inheritance of the Basque temples by program. No matter how many decades the program followed. No, nor the sum of these three factors. I believe, Mr Maneiro, that ETB should take into account the loyalty of its audience and the trajectory of a broadcast. It is necessary to take into account the 18,000-20,000 people who each Sunday connect with the mass broadcast, perhaps in some cases because they cannot access places of worship. Or the arrantzales, which have always requested the possibility of connecting from the ships, to follow two programs, mainly, the mass and the trainers, contents that make them feel closer to home. It is true that custom or tradition is not a reason for itself to justify a decision, but I believe that they must be taken into account. And television is everyone's. As you know, the Administration Council knows the main lines of the ETB programming, and knows exactly the programming of the different ETB chains, and they discuss the contents among them. The Governing Council is familiar with the main lines of ETB programming. He knows in detail the grill of his different channels. You know that the grill of the different channels of ETB is discussed and discussed within the Board of Directors. There are parliamentary representatives on that Governing Council. It is true that there are all the groups except UPyD and that, therefore, you cannot complain or raise this issue in it. But, in any case, it seems that this matter is not a priority for its members. It appears that the issuance of the ETB1 mass has not been questioned in the Governing Council since the institution was set up. But, for the record, what I can assure you is that in recent years no one has questioned its broadcast. Ziurtatzen said Azken Urteetan ez duel inork era ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez Your opinion is as respectable as the others. Following the same, perhaps we would have to remove all religious festivals from the calendar?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point has been abandoned for another. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpology, the parliamentary members of the Belsen Rocko Underground, to the head of economics and competition, the workers of Aternnova, who have been left behind after the departure of the prayer expedition." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u70	Good morning, everyone. First of all, the warmest welcome and greetings to the workers who came from Aternova today. The capacity you have shown for making your institutions move has been the motive of the management of Aernova. You're the only ones who forced the company to withdraw the prayer expedition. However, the danger has not disappeared. There's still a problem. The company still insists, the company still wants to fire workers, still wants to make the work conditions worse. That's why we've introduced this interpelation here because we're worried, because we're afraid we'll be back in a few months in front of a court of appeal. That's why we want to know what fun's going to do to avoid that danger, the head of Arzi Tapia to protect all jobs in Aternnovan, to guarantee worthy conditions of work. Besides, I think it's the best thing to ask, because the chief physician met with the head of Aernova this week, with Mr. Lópezez Gandásegui. It's all right, and I confess to you, the chief physician, to meet Madame's company, and to know their plan is correct. But I'd like to know if you or your department have been together with the workers' representatives this week since the file was removed. It's been a while, at least. I want you to explain these things to me later. I want to get to your meeting with Gandásegui. According to his information, Aternnnov confirmed his engagement with Arba and Euskadia. Now, I will tell you, we are glad if it is so, but in these matters faith is not enough: commitments, words must be determined and carried out. What will Aernnov's theoretical commitment be done? Can you explain it? What's the specific commitment that the company took with you? And what if he got them? You must give all these explanations to this parliamentary, which is what we think, but above all you owe them to the workers of Aternova. Otherwise, if you don't, we'll all have to think that the fun of Aernnnov's publicist and that the press fire notes to justify the face of the company. We believe that this case of Aternnov has opened a door, that he has taught all of us about the great companies with the companies of companies, especially that the model of harbinger may be changed. How many times have we heard about you when you're in this room, that you can't get in touch with people and workers, that it's a private area? Too many. Aternnovan has been convinced that this is not true. Aternnova has shown us that institutions must not necessarily be neutral, that when the companies plan to put out the workers, they must not maintain this false neutrality. He also taught us, that when we make these institutions, these sects, these workers, we can change things and make companies act differently. That's why I have to ask you a question, one more question: Why now, yes, and not before? Why has he so far accepted both head and head, and the men of prayer without legs? How many companies have gone through here asking for help and protection? It's a long list. If the chief department had acted as it was now, it would have been impossible, and most of the workers probably wouldn't have lost their job. As for Aternov, it's not over. After we report the company's blackmail, it's not over. You know, it's just fun to run control and track over business plans. Otherwise, in a few months we can have a field on the table. You can't go back to normal neutralized, as I said before. He's got to go for the workers. It must be active for the workers. It wasn't a good start, except to join them. I hope you can explain that, too. And that means that the model of relation to the institutions must be changed, too. It's not worth a model where the base is to give public support without forcing it to take clear enterprises. It is unacceptable that a company (Aternnova, in this case) should receive millions and millions, and now want to destroy 130 jobs in Aran, to produce the same in Toledo, when it has profited and intended to remove them into stock. We need a new relationship model. We also want to know if the chief physician agrees with this consideration. We think we need a different pattern with another base. The clear foundation, the commitment and attachment to the country, the continuation of productive activity, making sure of all the jobs. We don't think it's fair to give them public money unless the corporations have clear commitments. When the conditions are clear, I repeat, they must be put together again. Public aids, of course, but it's clear that the companies who get the money from all of us will not do either delocation or debasement. And if you do, let them bring back the money. In short, public aid to companies does, but with clear conditions, making it clear that receiving money from citizens forces companies not to relocate, not to fire. By making it clear that failing to comply with this commitment means having to return all the aid received. That is a new model of relationship that we want the administration and companies to have from now on. And we want to know if the counselor shares this idea. We want you to respond to what we have raised with you today in relation to the Aernnova case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. First of all, Mrs. Arrido, we're in the usual mix. My job and work are one thing, and it's another business company, company, management, and working people. And these again, I repeat, are absolutely private. Yeah, but that's another thing. And before we begin, I think you have heard my opinion more than once about the model of the company, so it is not what I am about to mention or mention to-day, but what I have always alluded to. First of all, we're talking about Aternov, and I've said it more than once, and it's not just the same as 'Bertevilla'. In eight states he has different types, with 5,000 jobs from which 25% of them are engineers. The Aternnova company here, Euscadin, the entire team, has just bought a company at the head of the firm, and has just bought ten companies in the Euskandine, where she has 1,500 workers, some of whom (440) in the Vertevilla plans. But like we said before, it's the whole company. It's the whole team. If we continue with the Hustevilla, it builds metamorphosic structures and has suffered 90% of the workers for five years, files of prayer. So, something seems to happen in this company, because 30% of the workloads have been dropped for the last five years, from the five of them have been transferred to the Juridic district and have also been given to the firm in some way support and assent. There is, therefore, something here, not only what we ought to consider now, but what we must consider during years. In these forms of metal-melanic structure, the mount is a matter of work, but we believe that there is also a special problem, and something deeper, which the company and the whole team must grasp. A few days ago, it's true that the company introduced a plan of cutting up 130 jobs, and announced the file of prayer. He spoke of the difficulties of competitiveness which he had been describing, and expressed his intention of taking temporary measures. He said that the company is bringing about a lack of competitiveness which is based on several aspects. Among them he talks about the lack of workload and also about labour costs, and in our opinion there are also other more structural issues within that company. He claims that it is difficult to achieve higher workloads, and ultimately the company has been in a complicated situation for not a year, but several years. The company committee, on the other hand – with which we have not met this week, but on previous occasions – defends the competitiveness of the plant and ensures that there is a premeditated will of the company not to bring more workload. He claims that there is a strategy dedicated to making the plant's workload disappear. However, in our view, in this case, there is a differentiation from many other EREs that have been presented in many companies in this country, with different situations, with different situations of lack of competitiveness, of low production capacity, and, ultimately, of structural problems. What are the differentiating elements in our view in this case? There are basically two of them: one, which has not been presented or raised a long-term planning element that tackles structural problems, which analyses what is happening in that company and advocates improving the competitiveness situation, not only based on labour costs, but on many other aspects – and then I will stop at them, if I have time – but, in addition to all that, announces at the same time the creation of a number of jobs elsewhere, a similar number of jobs. In that regard, we understand as a Government that this is not a practice, of course, as appropriate as possible, knowing that perhaps for the company, from its private point of view, it was easier to act like this and generate jobs elsewhere, and that this could hardly be carried out in Vitoria, in Berantevilla, within a short period of time. We understand that, but, however, acting with long-term planning could be carried out. The coincidence of the ERE's announcement with the creation of jobs meant that, of course, it clouded the company's relationship and caused that the negotiation that had to be conducted could not be carried out under the best conditions. A negotiating process by which the Government advocates, by which we also offer ourselves as mediators from the Department of Employment and the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness working together, to make it possible to achieve a good end. A process that could not even begin and was aborted before it began. However, we believe that these moments when this ERE has been withdrawn are the time when we must start working, we must begin to analyse that long-term planning to give competitiveness to that company in the long term, that that company is located in Berantevilla and continues to work with the activity that it has now and perhaps with some new activity; that it is modernized, that it enters into automatic processes, that somehow it gains in competitiveness and that it can get workload that today does not exist. The ERE's approach to extinction was a situation that led to a problem that had to be addressed in a different way. We understand that it now gives time to all of us, but above all to the company and the workers to reach agreements that are sufficient, agreed and that, of course, guarantee the continuity of the plant and do not lead to situations, in some way, drastic, in terms of measures to be taken in that company. It is time for dialogue, indeed, for dialogue and for the works council to do its job and for the company to do its job, for the approaches to be appropriate on both sides and for work to be done. And, of course, the Government will be to the extent that it has to be in order to help and collaborate in making that a reality. You were talking to me about public aid, and now, really, we're mixing it all up. Most of the companies in this country, we can say that around 90%, receive different aid. Different, and I said it the previous time, but I won't tire of repeating it. Aids, on the one hand, which are R & D+i. In this case, the group as a whole has received EUR 10.5 million in recent years – no more – in the group as a whole, and it is claimed that, as a result of the aid, we have the capacity to act in the company. Well, that is completely unaware of how they are financed and what these public aid are like. Such public aid does not enable us to intervene in the private sphere of the company. Moreover, the aid seeks to encourage R & D & I, it seeks to encourage the competitiveness of a company, it seeks to make it much more productive, it seeks to improve that company, but it does not always succeed, and you know perfectly well that internationalisation and innovation are not enough; they are necessary, but not enough. And public aid is not a shell, of course. They're not "I'm giving you the help to do this" or "You're doing this because I've given you the help," no. They don't work that way. The aid has specific objectives and is specifically regulated to achieve these objectives in accordance with European legislation, such as the rest of the countries. It does not mean that we have to act in a certain way, as you say. That, no. Europe tells us how we have to do it, and of course in this country we have done it for a long time and very well recognised in all international spheres. Another thing is certain aid..., I am not going to say loans that are given to companies to make investments, that are long-term loans, that are returning them, and those are linked to the generation of employment and the generation of investment. Those are, but we're not talking about those, we're talking about R+D+i. Specifically, the Berantevilla plant – I'll tell you more – has received in recent years only 280,000 euros, the Berantevilla concrete plant, in R+D+i. It means that in about seven years they have received 40,000 euros a year, and that does give us, in some way, a clue that tells us that there may also be problems in the accomplishment of their new tasks of being able to address new projects, new engineering projects, new activities, because the activity of R+D+i in that company has perhaps not been all it should have been. This is what we have talked about with the company and where we have raised the possibility of working on this long-term plan, which will be presented to the company committee with sufficient time and calm to be able to be addressed in depth. That is the only commitment we have made to the company, and the company came to explain what its course had been during this time, to share it with us, and, of course, it came to the Government to share its positions and position on what had been done. And from now on it is up to us all to work, but above all – I insist – in the private sphere (business and workers), to look for that long-term plan and that agreement that is essential to give continuity to the Berantevilla plant.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u74	Mrs. Tapia, really, you haven't answered, you haven't answered the questions you asked. What was the commitment to the meeting with Monsieur Gandásegui? what you said, the engagement to continue working from now on? Does that lead you to say that you've been on the side of the company with Euskita and Araba? Very shameful, if only that is what Mr. Gandásegui says and the engagement he's committed, zero patatero. Workers have every reason to worry about it, and a little longer since today, if that's the case. If there is anything more, we would like to have it in our second answer, to mention it in the second part, because it seems to us that this is not sufficient or not enough. And I'll go on: What did you suggest? What did the chief physician propose? What size? For I think it must be known and knowledge. On the other hand, it's not acceptable. The company hasn't been drafted in the last week. That also tells us a great deal about it. The company retreats for a moment on purpose and what future can be from now on. But the fact that I haven't had fun is still worse, and I'd like to know why, why, when they're so little concerned about it. In the end, you said that there could be a special, deep, not just a load of jobs, but we all all know that this company has gone by degrees to other places with dislocated workloads and new projects. And you said yourself, I don't know how many millions the company got, but there are very few of them left in Beruntevilla. And did you ever care about that? Doesn't he care? I think there were reasons for that. In this law, it is allowed to run around the workers that it was in a monographicographic near employment and poverty, and I will read you about a protocol like this. "The working man asks if you'd like to do something that's hard to put in a special protocol. In that case, M.M. will hand over his equipment and all his means to the workers and the staff commissions (Juductical action, the planning strategy, the line of help), and with them, he will be engaged to study the situation and prepare the solutions. In addition to this, the workers' representatives will be able to collect precise information about the state of business and make plans for competency, and the means of assistance will be also received." It's time to fill, Mrs. Tapia, in this case and in many other cases. Even today we feel... Not only did you notice, but you yourself once more said that you were going to this neutrality, the problem again, the lawsuit, the private camp, and we don't agree. There'll be two different opinions, but unfortunately that private camp isn't so private every day-when you take photographs of the company every day. That's not bad of itself, but we don't see a photograph of workers who are having a hard time with Aternova, in this case. But we can talk about others, too. Yesterday Candy's employees said it and they accused him of having left nothing again. We think it's time to change that pattern, and it's time for other examples to start. Public money, even if you give it to something or other, to improve I+D+ or infrastructure, that's all got to be controlled and put on conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u76	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Arrido, when someone doesn't want to understand or won't hear, I can't do anything. I think I've made it quite clear where the problems are, and now I think we're supposed to be, because the industrial part is under my jurisdiction, to meet and see what problems are with the company and how we see these problems, because that's where it is, that we've decided to plan a certain person who has decided to give it to us, and what we should have done. But that was our goal, and that's what we have to do. And when we mentioned that it was an engagement with Euskade, the one he mentioned, what did he say? And besides, there's no delocation. And when you mention that company got 10,5 million, you didn't even hear me say that. Euskadin 10 companies with 1,500 workers, so not just 440, but there are other companies that would require competitiveness. Why not some people? The company must decide, and we believe that this was what we put on the table, "If this enterprise has problems of competition, plan what they are and what measures you will take, not just the formatable." That was our plan since the beginning, and that's what it is. And that's why there's ways of helping and of becoming an intermediary. But by all means... , perhaps, as you have said, because we have not the same example: These are private corporations and workers move in private areas. The other thing is, what we always say is, "You're gonna have to do something about it." And we always say we have to help. Not taking his place, never. That's not their place. The number of companies we get... Not just companies, corporations, even departments, department groups that share with us and share with us, not just in the eyes of competitiveness, but in the affairs of business. And they often go by without knowing it. Not often, for the most part, because it seems to us that we must work thus, and that we must seek out for each one's solutions. And that's our job, and we'll continue, because we really believe there are corporations in this town that work a lot of companies, sometimes instead of improving them in a better way and sometimes, of course, because like us and the workers, we have to do it among all. And you'll never find us, as you're looking for us, because we're not the staff committee, really, we're not. We'll get them and work with them and the others, but we're not gonna be members of the board, and we're not gonna be, because that's not our role. The board has his job. And when you ask for protocol, please, you've heard it here too... "Well, perhaps you have not heard, I have mentioned several times in order to aid the protocols, which are our missions and how we work, and I have sent them back to this parliament with words and writing, but I can send them back to the law once more, what we could do and what is not, what is within the rule and what is in it, and what is logically and what is not to be done in all countries, Madame Garrido, though you may think it possible. Some things are done and some things don't. Neutraltasuna ez, bakoitzak egin behar duena egin behar du. Eta bakoitzak ditu berger eginbeharrak, betebeharrak, rights and duties, esaten dena gastelaniaz. And, therefore, the Government will continue to do what it has to do. It is not going to be placed in the place of the works council or the employer, either. Now, if there is a problem – as we see in this case, and we have commented on it to Mr Gandásegui – more structural, which needs to address other aspects so that the commitment that he presents with regard to the maintenance of jobs and the increase in the workload here in Euskadi can be carried out, requires planning that we want to share and that we want to follow – in that, yes – and we are going to be looking at it and following it first hand. And, of course, when you talk about relocations, it's a non-localized company, it's multi-localized, like so many others in Euskadi, which, thanks to many times throughout this crisis to that multi-localization, has allowed open companies to continue. That there are things to improve? Of course, but each one in its place, with a business model – we have always said it and will continue to say it – shared by all, workers, management team and entrepreneur, whether you like it or not. That is the model of modernity to which we have to move forward, and the Government has to help make that a reality. And there they'll find us all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, written by the Coinova Alonso of the United States to the head of economics and contestations, about the serious situation and negative forecasts of small trade." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u78	Good morning, everyone. Today we celebrate a thing called Black Friday, and if anyone doesn't know what it is, I'll tell you what it is: It's one thing that goes after Halloween and Thirs Givening Day to sell more things. This has two readings: on the one hand, about the sculpture processes and the culture of imperialism, but perhaps they will have to deal with it at the Board of Education and Cultural, and I will reach it from a point of view to the subject, i.e., from the point of view of commerce. It is true that this or this ceremony is performed, especially in the service of great commerce, that they are more comfortable in this world of cheapness, because their margins are larger, and their capacity of maneuver is more considerable, but it is very significant to see how such a ceremony or such a proposal has been greatly successful in our geographical territory, and how small men have succeeded in selling this opportunity. We don't push the celebrations of consumerism and consumerism, we encourage a balanced standard of consumption. We believe that the key of leisure or happiness cannot be centered around consumption, but we understand that our merchants are obliged to sell it, and that they have something to sell for a little more. Today is celebrated on black Friday and most traders in our country have also clinged to that burning nail to try to sell something more, because, really, for them most days are black, because the trade in general is going on days, weeks, months, a black period. As it has published, it has made public one of the main trade associations of this Autonomous Community, in the period of so-called crisis, between 2008 and 2014, about 15,000 jobs and 5,000 commercial establishments – most of them small – have disappeared in this country, and many, the vast majority of those who survive, above all, in the space of the small, live an authentic war economy. What's the reason for that? Now, if we look at the great public politics or the stars of commerce, we should find out that the reasons for the hours are reasons, and that most of the measures which they are doing, they go about to liberalize the schedules, to keep the shops open for more hours, and so it seems that the problem is present. But the problem is not present, the problem is in different degrees, there are some macronomical problems, and there are specific problems that affect the sector. We see at this period of crisis how the rich, who, after a short period of space, are really controlled by the superiors, have turned the economy vessel back, taken the rudder, and taken a solid direction towards them, and this direction is more for the rich, and less for the majority. The economic division is becoming more and more unfair, the population of the sectors become less economical and less economical, and it affects it that, not to consumption, because those who have to be consumers don't have the resources they need to consume. While we see that the companies of Ibex have already won this year, as far as the year goes 26 billion, an increase of 22% of their profits and the growth of GDP is only 3 %, 3.5%, we see that it is not that the pie grows for all, but that all that the cake grows is taken by the big ones and part of what the small ones used to take by the big ones, because the weight of the wage earners in the distribution of the incomes goes down permanently, and descends because there are public economic policies aimed at that happening: labor reform, reduction of wages, regressive fiscal policies. So those who are behind the consumption delays are improper macronomical policies and improper politics that have a direction to put a crisis in the workers. In the field of macroeconomic policy, Beraz, arlo horre, would be essential for the revival of consumption and the defence of small trade a policy based on progressive taxation and the promotion of stable employment and fair wages. If wealth be well and well distributed, the public will have the power of bribery, and consequently a balanced and proportioned consumption, there would be a powerful consumption required to satisfy the wants of men. Fiscalidad progressiva, impetus estable, sario-kiss. These are macronomical measurements, and it doesn't seem like the Gastial Government or the Government of Madrid are pushing politics in that direction. But, as I was saying, the purchase power has diminished, the consumption has diminished, but we can't say that reality is homogeneous all over the sector. There are also big and small. We often think that they are all powerful and that the sector is a little negative notation, but we must observe that there are also many jobs behind it, a specific problem, and that there are not the same thing as the owners or workers of large trading stations, and that even the workers of the place are developing a very positive paper (for instance, in the struggle against the penalty of time), but also in their daily condition, because, in this sector, the pre-racy, exploitation, and temporary work have been largely extended. And one must congratulate the struggle between the unions and the workers to defend their rights. And there must also be great superphysiities of the surface, to satisfy certain limited, controlled, and specific wants, but in a proportional and balanced manner, and the effects of the pretty ones which are now fostered, are more protected by the large and small. And when we say that the small must be protected, we do not say it for sentimental reasons, or for that alone. I think that the small trade is of added value, it gives life to nations and cities, people, lights, public space, personal personality and specificness to the submarine landscape, allows it to sell its produce to local products, a chance to increase the short circuits, enrichs the product offerings, and creates more quality employment. I mean, we're not just talking about sentimentalism. If the value is added, too, in small commerce, and therefore specific policies must be given to protect this sector. But if we have mentioned the inadequate policies made in the macronomical steps, even when they are fostered by the specific policy of the area, we believe that different governments are in the opposite direction of what is necessary. For instance, I shall quote an important measure, which the important measures of a recent period, important measures, to the small ones in the trade sector, do mainly damage to the small parts of the country. For example, the real decrees of the central government of Madrid, of the government of Madrid, always with the intention of extending timetables, of liberalizing timetables, with one or another excuse, the most important of which is that of the generation of areas of great tourist influx. We see how the Basque Government has picked up the glove and tried to extend the scope of these decrees further, by developing a specific amendment to the Trade Act that would allow for further extension of what the real decrees of Madrid proposed the existence of areas of great tourist influx. We see how the Madrid Supreme Court has put an end to the Sectoral Territorial Plan for Commercial Equipment, which means that the Community's protection of the indiscriminate proliferation of large commercial areas has disappeared; we currently lack legal instruments to prevent this indiscriminate proliferation. And in recent weeks, as part of the budgetary debate, we have been able to encounter flagrant and unacceptable discrimination against the trade sector in the Budgets, in which a very small amount is devoted to a sector which represents almost or is around 10% of gross domestic product and employment, and for which some EUR 13 million is devoted. Doubtful disproportion you have onarthezin of her blessed irony age. Sektoreak ere badauzka arazo espizifikoak, of course there are other problems that in an economy and in a dynamic society are being generated, such as changes in consumption habits, the emergence of electronic commerce, the multiplication of franchises, problems that are naturally occurring in any sector, but which are not being faced by the institutions with due importance, with due force, with the proper allocation of resources in proportion to what, as I said before, this sector in our Community and in our economy. So, and in short, we have a picture of problems that are affecting small trade and which we think are not being dealt with with with with the right energy. In the macroeconomic sphere, of course, the crisis in general, unemployment, regressive fiscal policy, lack of employment, precarious employment and lower wages. As for changes in consumption habits, the emergence of new realities such as e-commerce and franchises. We have public policies that, instead of supporting, are being negative, such as the real Madrid decrees of liberalization of schedules, changes to the Commercial Activity Act, the disappearance of the trade PTS or the budgetary marginalization that the sector suffers. Given this picture, which is almost a clinical picture, a picture of problems that is reflected in a decline in employment in this sector, what is your Government doing or intends to do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u79	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u80	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Casanova, I'm sure you're familiar with what's going on in the trade. The crisis has, of course, caused itself as in other sectors; and from the beginning of the crisis so many things have happened, which have been injurious to their economic activity. Not only for what they were doing, but, as you have said, they have at last done less shopping, and therefore they have suffered greatly in this globalized world and are still suffering. The small, we may say; the small trade sector suffers more than the others, because, when the demand is diminished, they are nearer in our cities. It's true, you mentioned it yourself, in a way, that there are great shops or larger trading sites, and that so many places are disappearing from our stations. And besides hurting commerce, they do harm to towns and their lives, and this also is to be considered. But, as you have mentioned, we who have the capacity of buying, and who are possible to do so, must, in the end, take up with us in some measure, such responsibility as this, in different ways, and e.g. it's been 15% of the last years. What did he suppose? In silence, without a sound, the site of our petty merchants has been occupied in a silent remuneration for the last few years. And that also must be said: they have, in some measure, been gradually relating and adapting their activity to what is going on. And that, in silence, I repeat again to him, slowly and slowly at work. These leaps are the ones at this moment when competition is increasing and somehow keeping jobs. And, of course, it must be said that not only large, but also those little ones who are doing enormous work. But as these are going from certain points, you know, the commercial manager has three measures exactly where they are related; one, to strengthen the internal commerce, and to make important reforms in the markets of wealth and service, to promote the commerce of the townships, and to work with them in the second, and the third to develop the local strategies of commerce. That's right, too, and that's what we're doing. That's how the management works. What for? There is, of course, a way to promote the competition of stalls, to promote the cooperation of corporations, as in other sectors, and to improve their knowledge. When I speak of knowledge, it is to promote knowledge in the electronic trade, or to promote innovations, or, after all, to introduce improvements and changes into our trade sector; But at the moment the concept of competitiveness, of course, extends to all those environments where trade is developing. Municipalities and urban environments are competing with each other to attract more and more buyers, trying to meet the needs they are looking for. And in view of this situation, it was mandatory to implement a series of actions in municipal environments, in urban environments, that would allow the activity to be maintained in each of these environments. We are supporting, through funding – but not only funding – modernisation and innovation in this whole commercial sector, but also supporting something we consider important, which is generational relay and business transmission. That is, trying to make it easier for all those small businesses that were at risk of disappearing because there is no continuity, because they do not want to, because there is no generational relief, because they do not want to continue in such a complex situation, they would close and disappear. And there I do want to highlight and publicly thank the sector for the immense work it is doing to detect where those possibilities exist and to look for the people who can take care of those companies. But I'm still going to detail a number of aspects that with these – in your opinion – 11 scarce millions of euros of budget are being launched. The Hirigune aid programme, where zonal strategies of cooperation and urban dynamism stand out, trying to start up in different municipalities and we have managed to reach 53, where there was more urban trade and where we try to make it prevail and continue to operate. Aid for the modernisation of commercial establishments. More than 1,300 applications have been received, with an induced investment of more than EUR 26 million. We have also provided training grants for young people to work on technological advice for these businesses, who also work in about 400 businesses that are somehow protected – I don't like the expression – helped to incorporate information and communication technologies, to work on new business models, and more than 700 Basque traders have been reached in this latest edition. But I would also like to stress the programme I was talking about, the Berriz Empresa programme, which is not limited to providing aid but allows more than 200 women entrepreneurs who have been interested in launching this generational relay, and today we can say that over the course of the year we have already managed to have 12 successful cases in business transmission and that they have prevented the closure of these businesses. But I insist, working already with 200 initiatives. We have also launched this commercial dynamism through the trade federations, the chambers of commerce of the three territories, in which we have sought the new map of training needs in trade, which has allowed us, together with Lanbide, to be able to directly address those training needs and to offer them according to the map that has been made, which we believe is really interesting. Not only that, we are also with the GISCOM-Euskadi project, which you also know, without a doubt, that allows us to really know what is the situation of the commercial hotels and tourism establishments in Euskadi. That is to say, it is not enough to have a certain CIF, but what is happening in that trade, it is really open, how it is located, and this will also allow us to put in place other measures to support these sectors not only of trade but of hospitality and tourism dedicated to the smallest part, to the SMEs of those commercial areas or of those shops, tourist establishments or establishments of hospitality. In short, we have to work on programmes, yes, but not just on funding or aid programmes, but on other types of actions that are required of us by the sectors themselves. But where I do not agree with you, under no circumstances, is where we are expanding the liberalisation of business hours imposed by Madrid. I have said this in this House, the Basque Government has resorted to this law, but what we also want to do is to ensure that hourly liberalization does not indiscriminately reach the entire territory. What we are seeking, therefore, is to safeguard the principle of non-liberalisation and, above all, and most importantly, to do so in agreement with the municipalities and the sector. In other words, there is no authorization, no analysis linked to that tourist influx that you were talking about if there is no agreement with the sector and if there is no agreement from the municipal plenary, then I believe it guarantees is the modification that we are undertaking. And, of course, if we believe that we have to help the sector, because you were talking to me about macro measures, taxation, employment security, but if we do not guarantee that these businesses will remain and help them to have a generational relief, there will be neither quality nor non-quality employment, there will be no such employment. And what I think we are all trying to do is that this job exists and is maintained, is of quality and also faces the new situations that we are facing more and more with these new ways of buying. And before I finish this first round, I would like to stress one aspect that I said in passing at the beginning. The responsibility is also ours, of each and every one of us who dedicates ourselves to going to these shops, because also the responsibility in how we act in each of them, what our buying habits are, makes them act in one way or another. We have to help them, but also be responsible for our attitudes and ways of buying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u82	Well, I'm going to start to answer you about the perhaps more controversial question, which is that of schedules. I believe that, although he may not like the allusion, here his party is using what we could already call fracking technique, and it is not drilling wells in the sidewalks of the shops, but it is saying one thing and doing another. You are talking about opposing the liberalisation of timetables, but from the Bilbao City Council there is pressure and lobbying in Madrid so that Bilbao is also included in the real decrees that oblige to impose in certain cities areas of great tourist influx. Or they say that they are against the ZGAT and in Donosti they have just decreed the extension of the ZGAT outside the areas that had been agreed by the previous corporation with precisely the consensus of the sector. I am trying to make a constructive approach and which, among other things, recognises that not everything that affects the trade sector falls within its sphere of competence, nor does it fall within the competence of this House. They are complex problems, some of them of a macro-economic nature and others that go beyond – let us say – our powers, our possibilities for intervention, but there is a wide margin of intervention, and it is about this margin of intervention where we are not acting with the proper strength, with the proper energy and with the proper allocation of resources, because I believe that things have to be said clearly: 13 million, you have been able to get me off the ground how these 13 million are being spent, and indeed it is possible to spend a good time, but there is an absolute disproportion between 13 million and 10% of the employment that is more or less around this sector, and it is a disproportion that is unacceptable. Our group has tabled an amendment within the Budgets – which were difficult to correct, because it was difficult to catch them somewhere – to increase by at least 50% – and as a sign that there is a commitment for this sector – the heading dedicated to internal trade, because, among other things, it was talking about projects of geolocation, geopositioning, mapping of the sector, and even with those projects it is raking up, which are projects that are being carried out from the sector, which are useful tools to know and improve, and even those are having to fight for each euro, when they really are strategic bets that should not have any budgetary problem. We have come to ask precisely that, that resources be provided, that associationism be given prominence for diagnosis, to generate a strategy. We believe that there has to be a shared strategy that has to be a co-designed strategy among all actors and also the institutions. And among the agents I include the unions; to them, to see if they will also be asked the question of the liberalization of hours, because they represent the workers who will have to work on Sunday, if so decided. They too and they are part of the sector. But that design has to be together, and that design has to be resourced. There has to be a shared diagnosis, there has to be a strategic plan for trade that does not enter into the war of big against small, center against periphery, capital city against the environment, but it is a strategic plan that unites and tries to solve and respond to the needs that are different. That is why we call for the strengthening of the mechanisms which today are at the mercy of the sectoral tables, of the tables which reflect and give a framework for debate and decision to the whole sector. We also ask you to clarify what will happen to the PTS of commercial equipment. It's been three months. We have held a three-month period of deference waiting for your Government to dare to transfer to society or to the sector some reflection on what it intends to do in the face of this new situation generated, but once that period has passed, we requested yesterday the appearance of yourself or of the Councillor for the Environment and Territorial Planning, to explain to us and to society what it intends to do in the face of an issue that has an extremely serious condition. We propose that, as I said earlier, mechanisms be provided for discussion and also for economic resources for training, for transmission, to deal with the new realities of the world of trade. To generate synergies also in small trade that can make you compete better against other realities that have more financial economic resources. To be able to work from small business also realities such as marketing, purchasing platforms, loyalty sharing systems, discount cards, etc., etc. We think that vouchers and purchase support plans, plans renew – call one way or another – in different sectors, are plans that work and have worked in this too, but, of course, resources are also needed there. You are talking about the transmission of shops, which is also important, the promotion, awareness-raising, campaigns are needed, people need to be approached about the need to sustain this small business with their particular behaviors. We also seek specialization, differentiation, the defense of historical commercial heritage, the involvement of small trade also in e-commerce, may be part of it and not be a rival. Indeed, we need to share analysis, we need to have a strategic plan and we need resources to move forward, which now do not exist...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u83	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Tapia andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u84	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Casanova, for starters, tells me that our group in Madrid has tried to get Bilbao in. It is that Bilbao was from the beginning, Bilbao has always been, from the beginning as an area of great tourist influx, and then entered Donosti. You read things, please read things, because, if not, it's that we're misconceptions. Bilbao has been from the beginning as an area of great tourist influx. Another thing is that, as always, in this amendment of the Law on Commercial Activity we have tried to introduce the agreement with the municipalities, and in this case that you say Bilbao has maintained what existed in the previous case and Donosti, formerly governed by the coalition to which you represent while making this inquiry, decided that it was a certain area, then you also seemed well because, if not, you would have told us that we would not open it, then you also seemed well or I understand that to the formation to which you represent, and now you intend jealously..., jealously, because that was done with consensus; well, this, too. Now the municipal government has decided to do something else, with consensus too, because otherwise it would not have done it. But you always veiledly introduce aspects like fracking, which doesn't come to the story, really. Really, if you want to say the word, say it as it comes here, but it's that it comes to nothing in commercial activity. Is there no way we can make a serious inquiry and talk about what to talk about? If the framework for action is that of small trade, then let us talk about small trade. Let's talk about what's most important: associationism or working with each and every one of the businesses, because I wanted to understand that. I may have misinterpreted it, but, of course, what we intend to do is to launch a series of actions, which, by the way, are within the strategic plan; perhaps you haven't read it to them. There is a strategic trade plan, there is, then don't ask me because it is already, where all those measures that you quote (that if campaigns, that if actions, that if differentiation) are, all. You read it and don't tell me the plan that's been prepared from the department. The Business Act. It's just, really, do we know what we're talking about? Do we know what we're working on? Well, we're working to make an agreement; and if there's no agreement, then nothing happens. If there's no agreement in the municipality, it's all right, we'll stop by. And you know perfectly well that the small business in many of the towns of Euskadi, in many, opens whenever you want; therefore, we will try to regulate and ensure that those people who want to do it do it the best they can. There's a theme... , tell me about the PTS. Obviously, the PTS and the situation to which the appeal, the acceptance and the last sentence has now referred, of course, must be analysed very slowly, we have discussed it on some occasion, we have commented on it on some occasion, not in this House, and both the department representing Councilwoman Oregi and ours are analysing very in detail whether there is any possibility of taking any action. But you will understand that, since we cannot reverse that sentence, at the moment, what can be done is quite limited and we are working on that. Do not doubt that when we have something prepared we will tell you, and, if you have asked for the appearance, we will tell you how far we have reached, but we will be a little serious, if I may, and we will work with that trade, which really needs to be helped. That those measures are enough? Let us also work on them at the trade table, that there is this trade table, also represented at the tourism table, by the way, where all these aspects are discussed with all the actors. And the trade union side, as you were telling me, is it going to be consulted in the Business Act? Well, as far as I know the laws are dealt with under a certain... we're going to say a certain regulation and it's for everyone who wants to talk. And in the speech in this Parliament he has also been heard, if I have not misunderstood it, after analysing who they have presented. Then let's put all the things on the table and analyze them all, so much what concerns the Business Act, which did not come to light in this inquiry, but I tell you, and, of course, to work to make that strategic plan that has been drawn up within the trade table as much as possible, but don't tell me the things that are already being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, "The question is, "The question is, "The lawmakers of the Artabasters assembled at EH, to the head of Economics, to the chief physician of competitive Economisme, to assist the minigis of blackness." Lazarobaster yellow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u86	Good morning, everyone. In front of the situation where the milk sector is living, the 2rd of October announced a number of proportions, one of which was to start between the minimis support, the funk and the pillows. Thus, during these days, the aldunciations of Gipulia and Biscavia have set this help in motion, and, well, when we read the foundations, we find it very striking that a condition for the milk cows should help us: the minimum number of cows must be 20 cows to get this support. And in this way, professional farmers down 20 milk cows are helpless. And so our question is: You think it's right to get 20 professional farmers out of their milk cows out of the back of the minimis?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u88	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Lázarobaster, in the scene we had recently at the committee, the measures we discussed in the milk sector, and so on, I think I have mentioned the measures agreed on on at a table there, the measures agreed on by the sector, because this crisis involved the global nature of it, and so did it to us, but in a different way, and so we gathered together with the sector. We even talked about the Milky Cows' sector, though that's where we had a little argument. Ours is one of the most remarkable things that are connected with transformations and commerce, and hence, as it were, several of the initiatives have been put into motion during the preceding few years, this sector is more structured, and it doesn't suffer so much. It doesn't mean this doesn't affect him, but he doesn't suffer so much. It was, therefore, our purpose, with different measures, whether it was to continue to structure the sector, and to give us, as it were, this assistance to professionalism. Not just to put money where the galley was, but to structure the sector. And that, too, was the difference between this aid of mine and that of the state we mentioned. And that's the moment we talked about it. Why the 20-headed farms? Why? Because we understand that precisely what we are trying to do is to structure the sector. And, therefore, below that level we understand that most farms do not participate in quality programmes, the income from the agricultural activity of those farms in relation to milk cows is a minimum percentage of the activity they have and that the weight of the milk cow sector in those farms on the total agricultural income is very low; therefore, it does not help to structure the sector. For a few figures, it accounts for 30% of the total holdings, and that's what you're going to tell me, I know, but it barely accounts for 3.7% of the total and 4.4% of the total of the 2014–15 marketing quota. Then, really, if we are going to try to restructure the sector, we are going to do it on the farms which structure the sector and which represent the most important part and which suffer most as a result of the entry into force of this milk regulation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u90	Yeah. In fact, it would be enough that the only peasant should be left without help in some way to change those grounds of help. You've mentioned 30% of Typical, Araba and Bizka. To give a small example, there are only three milk stables in ecological production, there are at three o'clock professional farmers who live on it, and minimis who are out of this help fall from 20 cows. The milk cows, no one keeps them for caprice, or for washing their pastures, as in the cattle of the flesh: it's 365 days a day of hard work to milk twice every day. And why this discrimination? Why does EAJ punish small farms in such a strange and insolent way that he doesn't keep money from helping them? The little farms, it seems, are superfluous for EAJ. And if this were small, you'd have done a trick like this for the cattle in the flesh. It must be said that peasants who have less than 20 cows in cows are not usually professional, because cows are mostly doing their jobs elsewhere, and in this case you have dropped the minimum number of cows instead of 20 cows. And what's this for? What for? To people who aren't professional farmers to help money. So, some professional farmers will be out of money, and some people who aren't professionals will get their money. It's clear what EAJ wants. He doesn't care about the future of the sector. What he wants is to make the little farms disappear and help his little friends without any complexity. And why should not the help, instead of setting up according to the number of animals, be planned for every professional farmer? Again, to strengthen the old recipe, the intensive and clitentistic model, and these are recipes that in a few years will leave the milk sector without a peasant, the usual recipes. And this, of course, must be thanks to the great work of EAJ.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u91	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Mrs. Tapia, to answer, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u92	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. First, I know I'm a member of the EAJ, but in this case I come as head of the department, not as a member of the EAJ, because there they are, on that bank. Now, please tell them what matters to EAJ, like the chief physician of the departments. Two. I understand it's hard for you, because when you've been following each other for 30 years, you've been completing the milk sector and getting what you've got today, you're much better than those in other states and you don't participate, that's hard, I understand. But what I don't accept is the word "friend" at all, not the word "collectual." I don't admit that to you at all, because that's not true: on the one hand, the measures taken with all the sectors are objective measures; it's another thing that you don't like them or that you would do them differently. Do it when it's time for you to be chief of departments. Done with the sector and completely objective, and really to structure and professionalize the sector. Hence all the other words, and all that you mean by that means, are quite apart. And if you've got any proof of it, I've told you once more, there's proof that something like this is happening, you know where you're going. Not here, in some other place, so that you speak carefully, not just as the chief physician, but as the whole sector is telling him what's going on. Sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Thank you. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Sister Saraz, a member of the Society, made of Eplegus, and the chief department of Polic Society, concerning the acquisition of helps for social distresses." Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u94	Yeah. From the seat, I take it the question is reproduced.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u95	Thank you. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u96	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. The Department of Police and Employments has made a sketch of changing the 4/2011 Decree and has presented it at the Society Organizational Committee this week. It must, however, be explained that there is no subject in the question of the legislature. In fact, we will explain its legal reasons later.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u97	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u98	Thank you. Sailburu, ladies and gentlemen. You, in your reply to my group on 17 November, tell us and acknowledge that today there are many people in a precarious situation as a result of the economic crisis and the increase in unemployment which, having not had to resort to social assistance, are doing so. You also recognize the current circumstances that have awakened a new reality, that the assets cannot be liquidated in time to attend to emergencies. However, they pose difficulties in fulfilling Parliament's mandate as expressed and call for prior reflection on the consequences of any timely changes in legislation. They say, on the one hand, that the Emergency Aid Decree refers to Article 24.1 of the Income Guarantee Decree in the matter before us, Mr. Counsellor, which states that any member of the living unit who possesses a immovable property in possession or usufruct different from the usual housing, and who does not constitute the place where the activities are carried out on his own, will not be able to access social benefits. Access to aid is denied to people who own small land as well as those who own a second home, regardless of whether they cannot benefit from it, either because of their poor conservation characteristics or because they fail to sell it because of the current circumstances of the real estate market as a result of the economic crisis. On the other hand, they propose for the fulfilment of the mandate the possibility to add to the decree of the ESAs all the specifications relating to income and assets of which it lacks. The department has squandered the idea of being able to incorporate in the decree the possibility of offering the managing entities to use discretionaryly 8% of their allocation, on the basis that some municipalities have increased from their own resources a specific line of aid, enabled precisely for these exceptional situations, which cannot be met with the criteria and requirements laid down in the order of social emergency aid and in the decree itself. And yet many other municipalities that lack their own resources cannot cope with these cases of need. And the competence is of the Basque Government, although the management is of the municipalities. That is why we believe that it is necessary to amend Decree 4/2011, so that people who do not have liquidity, do not have liquidity to meet specific expenses, without depending on whether or not their city council has its own budget, and without prejudice to the fact that all the necessary controls can be established for this purpose. And we believe that it is up to the Government to make the necessary changes and that it must do so urgently, because those in need are asking for it. Counselor, we have just met the Basque sociometer of November on social inequalities and benefits. Half of those surveyed perceive that 25% of the Basque population is in poverty in Euskadi, that social inequalities have increased and that the consequences of poverty are not being able to live in decent housing, suffer energy poverty or not being able to eat meat and fish twice a week. In addition, 23% of those surveyed perceive that care for people in poverty has worsened, that the number of people in need of support has increased and that spending on social protection has been reduced. Mr Councilman, 51% feel that aid does not reach the people who need it, and 57% feel that it should reach more people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u99	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Answer me, Mr. Toña.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u100	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Sarasua, as already explained in some previous written replies to this oral question, as you have already pointed out, the greatest difficulty presented to us is that we are limited by the value of the maximum allowable assets set out in Law 18/2008 on Income Guarantee and for Social Inclusion itself. Since, in the mandate of Parliament, the No Bill 23/2015 proposes only to amend the ESA Decree, it was essential to seek an opportunity to respond to the request in accordance with the normative hierarchy and without questioning the above-mentioned Act and the entire income guarantee system. We have continued in our section, and will continue to carry on our proposals according to this law, but we must consider the following considerations. First, article 46 of Act No. 18/2008 of 23 December 2008 on income security and social inclusion sets out the following as one of the requirements to be met by persons receiving social emergency assistance: not having an asset whose value is greater than four times the annual amount of basic income for inclusion and social protection that may be applicable to them in the event of a total absence of resources, depending on the total number of persons related to each other by the aforementioned links. The value of the assets shall be determined in accordance with Chapter II of this Title. Secondly, neither section 46 nor the rest of the section of the Income Guarantee Act provides for the possibility of exempting compliance with such a requirement by means of a regulatory provision; therefore, allow me, Mrs Sarasua, to conclude by saying that this is a requirement established by a rule of law, the amendment of which requires a rule of the same legal rank for which the Government is not competent, but this Parliament. In other words, there is no exception to the requirement legally established by a decree, which would be the competence of the Government, but not that of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u101	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interadecialization, the parliamentary members of the Basque Socialists, María Isabel Céla éguez to the chief of Education, Language, and Cultural Division, about the trielenal framework of education."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u102	Good morning, everyone. Chief physician. Studying in English, you know it well, may have been just one option ten years ago, but today is a necessity. In our day, English represents what Latin represented in the 14th century: it has become the language of the globalized world, the fundamental reference in scientific and technological research and the basic tool to assimilate the necessary knowledge to allow access to the world of work. His knowledge is therefore, and in an interconnected way, an element of social equality and modernity of a country which, like ours, Euskadi, must aspire to take a leading place on the European and international scene. It is in this globalized world in which, without English, it is not that it is in, but that it is directly out : out of employment, out of science, out of innovation and internationalization. And I ask you: is that what you want for a part of our education system? On May 7, 2014, you, Madam, appeared before the Education Committee of this House to report on the results of the evaluation of the first promotion of the Trilingual Education Framework, MET I. They were spectacular. The advancement in knowledge of English was extraordinary, while Basque, Spanish and English-language subjects progressed in tandem with the control groups established for the evaluation. He earned a lot without losing anything, contrary to what some agrarians had predicted. In particular, in the third year of secondary education, 27% of students in the MET I groups achieve a B2 level in English and 41% achieve a B1 level; that is, 68% of students in the Framework for Trilingual Education have a B1 level or higher. In contrast, between the pupils of the control groups only 3% achieves B2, only 3%, and 16% B1; or what is the same, only 19% has a B1 level or higher. The percentage of pupils who reach or exceed the B1 level of English among the MET I groups is threefold higher than those who do not make a Trilingual Education Framework. I repeat: 14 years, 68% of pupils – that is, almost 70% of pupils – reach a B1 or B2 level in the European reference framework for languages, compared to almost 20% who, not being in the framework of trilingual education, fail to do so. The difference is very significant and occurs not only in results, but also in the progress made in the three years of the ETF. While some, those who do not make Trilingual Education Framework, advance 46.2 points in that period, the others, those who make Trilingual Education Framework, advance 97 points. And that's not what I'm saying, that's what the scientific assessment says, and you know her well. Because this is what the report itself points out: progress in English is strongly correlated with the hours of exposure to this language, something that happens in a similar way in the case of Basque, up to a limit of use, as you well know, which indicates that there is a qualitative change when English – or, in its case, Basque – becomes a subject to be the instrument for learning other subjects, that is, when it also becomes a vehicle language. That is precisely the philosophy of the framework of trilingual education: turning the three languages that coexist in our educational system into an object and instrument of learning. Here, after 18 months of that attendance, this Parliament and the school community remain unaware of the evaluation of MET II, the Trilingual Education Framework II, the largest group. And we do not know either the evaluation or the final conclusions of this process, a process that we started in 2010. It is a situation that we consider quite inexplicable, not to say difficult to accept, because I remind you, Mrs Uriarte, that the framework of trilingual education was devised by this Basque Education Administration, by this Basque Government, by this Basque Government of all, not as a further experience in the treatment of languages in Basque education, but to, after a contrasted and scientific assessment, take the appropriate decisions that would allow us to advance in Basque, consolidate bilingualism and substantially improve the knowledge of English, as demanded by the society of the twenty-first century. In other words, make a new linguistic approach to Basque education. Unfortunately, your three years' career shows you have no intention of making any decisions, either in this or sometimes. You've decided to let the whole law pass without making any decisions. You don't clear anything, you leave everything vague. In the meantime, of course, our circle is moving and our member of the community is standing behind it at the time of the educational use. Unfortunately, Mrs Uriarte, we are only going back on this subject, because, although our Autonomous Community is at the forefront of educational investment by students, holds leading positions in academic results and educational indicators, this good position in no way has its corresponding reflection with regard to the introduction of education in English, which barely reaches the Spanish average in primary education and remains below it in compulsory secondary education, where it would occupy the sixth place between the communities of the State and the eleventh if we refer to the student of the public network who studies at least one subject in English. The eleventh in the public network, in half of the system: of 17 autonomous communities, the Basque Autonomous Community on 11. Because, if during the three years of the trilingual education framework it was sought that English would reach out to all kinds of students keeping the balance between the two educational networks – there were at first 61 public schools and 56 concerted ones – the situation, ma'am, in these three years has come to light. According to data from his own department, the 2014-2015 course the number of concerted centres in trilingualism that do at least one subject in English doubled that of public centres, a trend that is consolidated in this course: 205 centres in the concerted network, ikastolas included, compared to 110 in the public network. And as far as students are concerned, the data is even more worrying: 58,640 students in the concerted network compared to 10,900 students in the public network. I believe that this, ma'am, must move you to a reflection and a rectification. It is not a question of the pupils of the concerted network reducing their positions, lowering their positions, but of the public network improving their positions. Because a good knowledge of English has to be the heritage of all Basque students. It is not enough that it reaches certain centers, precisely those that in theory have better opportunities to acquire it in one way or another. It is very good for Basque education that concerted education becomes trilingual in a short time, it is a merit and an effort that we value very positively. But, ma'am, what about your network? What about the network you own? What about public education? How can we say that we bet on educational equity if instead of English for all through progressive generalization, with a plan, we offer English only for some? The personal, labour and social consequences cannot be other than inequality. It's a serious situation, and I'm asking you to speak frankly, Mrs. Uriart. Does your department have the latest results of the triple-frame evaluation of education? And if he has them, how can we understand that you haven't introduced him yet? Do you intend to present the results in the legislature? Do you intend to practice the whole educational system? And how will you do this: just in general or for some people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u104	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Celaá, I must begin by saying that I share several aspects with you. Indeed, it is to be recognized that the framework of trilingual education has taken a step towards the multilingual education – basically, trilingual – of our Basque educational system. I think it is important to remember and recognize the goodness of the program, whose theoretical objective we share to a large extent. However, Mrs Celaá, it is also an honour to recognize that there is always room for improvement. It existed within the framework of experimentation, and I am sure that there is also room for improvement within the framework of trilingual and multilingual projects that we are currently developing. This is precisely where the power of evaluation lies, in its enormous usefulness in a process of continuous improvement. And this is what we are doing: analyzing, evaluating and trying to improve the system, until we reach the ideal framework that allows us to generalize trilingual and plurilingual education in our educational system. And for this it has been of great help, as could not otherwise be, the previous experience of the trial process of the trilingual education framework, both in the first phase, MET I, and in the second phase, MET II. As you have stated, the first call of the MET Experimentation, the MET I, began at the 2010-2011 school, and ended at the 2012-2013 school with 40 schools. It's the kind of evaluation you've got in this government. On the 7th of May, 2014, we reported the results through an appearance offered in this legislature. According to what we then explained, the cradle, youth, mathematics, and the performance of science had not been detected again; whereas in English the profit was remarkable. A very positive experience, therefore, as you have said. I shall remind you of what we had just pointed out: on the one hand, in the number of hours of English and eucalyptic learning of curriculum, and in the high scores acquired in these educations, there was no positive relationship in it; on the other hand, it was not a positive relation; on the other hand, it was the Interoperability of the English knowledge to the level and to the equivalence of youth, the relationship between the degrees of eloquence; and lastly, the condition set in each language to learn 20% of curriculum was not fulfilled. Indeed, the final evaluation of the trilingual education framework, MET I, showed that the use of a third language as a vehicle for learning other subjects substantially improves language competence in that language, while not harming the rest of the competences. It also showed us the evolution experienced in language competence in Basque, Spanish and English in relation to the degree of curriculum readiness. And it revealed to us the positive correlation between the number of teaching hours taught and the competition acquired in Basque and English. I repeat, the correlation was clear and positive in the case of English and Basque. That is, the more hours in Basque and English, the greater the competence of these languages. This was not so in the case of the Castilian. On the other hand, the evaluation also concluded that the progress of knowledge of English is directly related to the degree of bilingualism in Basque and Spanish. This is, to the greater degree of bilingualism, of simultaneous knowledge of Basque and Spanish in a balanced way, the more the knowledge of English progresses. It should also be noted that, at this stage of experimentation, the initial premise was not fulfilled in all cases, according to which 20% of the curriculum should be given in each language. These were the most important conclusions of the evaluation of the first phase of the ETF. The second call, which is called METI, was ended at the year 2011-2012 school. This second time, the 63 public schools and the 49 treaties involved. At the time of evaluating the results of the MET I Schools, we had made two measurements of the results of the MET II schools in May 2012 and 2013. The third measurement of METE's second phase was missing. And we're done with that third measurement. As you have mentioned in your question, because you know this subject well, the project has its complexity, and technical analysis requires their time to be able to do it with proper discretion. It is true, then, that this final evaluation has taken us more time than we have intended. In any case, we have done this evaluation, because it really seems important to us that we can avail ourselves of the experience of META's I and II phases to improve our system. The data's in there, we're ready for the report, and we'll report it as soon as we can. Then, as always, we are prepared to explain anything about this report. In any case, as an advance, I will relate the most important consequences resulting from this evaluation of the second phase of MET. It's a kind of Euskrace and Spanish performance in experimental groups of METs and departments of control. That is to say, the participation in experience has not affected the results of eucalysium and youth in a negative manner. Parting in the experiment has no effect on non-committing meetings that are not languages, namely, mathematics and science-relationships. With regard to third language performance (in this case, English) a significantly higher performance has been demonstrated in the ETF experimental groups than in the control groups. I should also mention that the English language tests were built, as on the previous occasion, by Cambridge English Language Assessment, and met the international standards of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. In relation to the percentage of hours of instruction in each language, we have observed that there is a positive correlation between the percentage of hours of instruction and the results of reading compression in Basque and English, while in Spanish it is non-existent. It is important to note that while in Basque all experimental centres meet the requirement to provide at least 20 % of the curriculum hours in Basque, this circumstance is not fulfilled in the case of Castilian. Therefore, from this second evaluation we can conclude that the trends detected through the first experimental phase of the ETF are confirmed. Of course, all the information drawn from these experiments has served and serves as the basis for the design, development and implementation of the current basically trilingual and multilingual projects being carried out at the Euskadi educational centres. However, it is also not correct to say that the current projects are based solely on the evaluation of the previous experiment of the ETF, since there are other basic pillars that support them and that we cannot avoid them. First of all, the oriental and principles of the strategic order of language, which is recorded in the frame of 2020 education-worked education with the community. In the second place, we are comparing the results of the dialectical evaluations of 2011 and 2015, taking each language separately and all together. And thirdly, at the year 2014-2015 and at the year of the year of the year of the year of year 2015-2016, we will also observe the results of the schools in which the trieleans and eloquence started. So, to help us fix the future lines, we'll have four well-grounded and additional photos: MET, the strategic line of eloquence, a diagnosis of evaluation, and an eloquent experience of the two last apprentices, doing as best suited to the treatment of languages as possible to improve the capacity of communication with their scholars in three languages. Besides, we have also examined the patterns used in other countries and communities from the house UNESCO. Thus we have examined the experiences of Catalonia, Scotland, Frisia, Hong Kong, in order to design our future eloquence in the best way. Therefore, Mrs Celaá, the trilingual and multilingual projects are not only going to lose strength, but are being consolidated on the basis of bilingualism, within the framework and with the horizon of multilingual education, from the inescapable prospect of obtaining multilingual citizens, with sufficient knowledge of at least one foreign language. As I recently answered in one of the questions he asked me in writing, it is the department's intention to continue with the policy of fostering multilingualism, supporting and collaborating so that, progressively, more educational institutions, both in the public and concerted networks, carry out their own multilingual projects within the framework of a linguistic project of the centre, which is conceived as a tool by which the student achieves the linguistic skills defined in the student's exit profile, defined in turn within the educational framework of Heziberri 2015.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u106	Yeah. I, Mrs. Uriarte, thank you for the answer. What seems to me to be almost inconceivable contrast is that, having all that information at your disposal, within the reach of the Basque Government, you do not make a generalization project and you maintain, keep the public school out of international systems, out of international channels of linguistic modernization. Because I remind you, ma'am, that the public school is you, you are the holder of the public school. And I remind you, Mrs. Uriarte, that while we have..., how many..., nearly 60,000 students on the concerted network doing trilingualism, we only have 10,900 students on the public network. And this can only be due to two issues: one, they have no resources; the other, they have no conviction. If you don't have resources, listen, responsibility, we already know where you live. And if you don't have conviction, do you have no conviction? How can conviction be made available to introduce itself precisely into a system of linguistic modernization, the result of the revolution in contemporary information technologies, nothing less than half of the Basque education system, which is lagging behind? I repeat, from 17 autonomous communities, the eleventh. That, you can't tolerate. And I also tell you something else: I already know that there were, in fact, other projects, which had started years ago, but the one that you have evaluated scientifically, the one that you have actually evaluated scientifically and subsidized, paid for, financed by the Basque educational administration, is the framework of trilingual education. And you have scientific resolutions there, and you can say, "Everything is susceptible to improvement." By the way, by the way, everything is likely to improve, but you can't stop sowing wheat for fear of sparrows, you can't stop extending the trilingual education framework as much as it is likely to improve. Because the improvement is made by walking, walking. So, what I'm telling you, Mrs. Uriarte, is that you have an obligation to lead this project. It has the obligation, not the availability, not the option, but the obligation to lead this project and to make a project of progressive generalization of trilingualism. And here they're not worth excuses, they're not worth excuses for lack of professional training – a game that, by the way, you've been reducing over your term of office. But it's not worth that excuse either, because that would be as much as saying that the concertee's professionals are better trained than the public's professionals. So, that excuse is not worth it. Nor is it worth public education not wanting, listen. Public education must have the conviction that, obviously, Basque and English are not adversaries. They don't add up to zero. You said it yourself, it's not about more English, less Basque. Let's see if we're going to pass and it's going to be that more Basque, less English, what 21st century society doesn't accept. He won't take it. Therefore, you have an obligation to make a great mobilization movement with your network, with the public school, so that the public school can double the numbers it has at the moment. And that, in a record time, because you have all the scientific heritage with the results of the evaluation, which, as you said, is made by the most prestigious and international institutions, nothing less than the University of Cambridge and PISA. Nothing more and thank you very much. And I hope you do, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u108	Mrs Celaá, I believe that, well, we are both aware that we have common points and points on which we diverge, but I believe that it is clear the objective on which we are working to achieve it. Our aim is to continue to develop a multilingual education, basically trilingual, with Basque as the central axis, with the aim that the student generally achieves advanced communicative competence in Basque and Spanish, and sufficient in English, at the end of compulsory education, without excluding the possibility of acquiring basic knowledge in a fourth language in those centres that provide for this in their linguistic projects. The central axis of the Basque language is due to the situation of imbalance and social inferiority it possesses in relation to the other official language, the Spanish language, being the objective of the Basque educational system contributing in the most effective way possible to a situation of equilibrium and effective and real equality of both official languages in their social uses. We therefore promote the consolidation of bilingualism within the framework of multilingual education that contributes to the improvement and development of existing language models. For this purpose, the Basque language is in need of preferential treatment that compensates for the inequality of social use between the two official languages, so that the student reaches at the end of basic education a practical and effective communicative competence in Basque and Spanish, and sufficient in the first foreign language. In order to achieve all this, the phase of MET's experimentation was completed, and as a next step, it began essentially in September 2014, with the trieleans (and Eleetics) in order to put the projects in operation. As I have said before, these projects, being the axis of eucay, are made according to the methods and principles of the strategic line of eloquence, as appears in the frame of 2020 education. So that we tend to promote eloquence, to public schools, to compact schools, to keep language trieleans, and eloquenceal projects, and, in consequence of these projects, the professors of foreign language. Through these callings, you can help with money the training of foreign language and the training of teachers. The benefited scholars will be given six hours a week, in both lectures, for the development and implementation of the theme of language. Besides this, the schools have the direct advice of the local innovation throughout the whole process, considering the united and complete views of languages in the following respects: the language in the development of the project, the preparation of the strata for teaching in foreign language, and the training of the language of language. Thus, we allocate aid to the centres to develop trilingual or multilingual projects through the corresponding calls, and I have to say that these calls are very well received: in the course of 2014-2015 there were 254 participating centres, of which 82 belong to the public network and 172 to the concerted network; in the course of 2015-2016 there are 315 centres that are developing multilingual projects (110 public centres and 205 concerted centres). Quite an achievement, taking into account the starting point, just a few years ago. And it's not all just about money. I would also like to point out that we are already close to achieving the objective that we had set ourselves, to getting half of the primary and secondary schools to join these multilingual projects. The Board of Education, Language, and Cultural are doing all the efforts to accomplish this goal. Thus, not only do we give resources to the schools who are engaged in these projects, but we also offer guidance, and we continue the work that is being developed and the constant pursuit of projects. I believe that we are on a good footing, Mrs Celaá. The experience gained through the pilot phase, the evaluations carried out, the resources allocated and the integrated and integral treatment of the languages will enable us to achieve our objective: to continue to develop a multilingual education with Basque as the central axis, so that the student reaches advanced competence in Basque and Spanish, and sufficient in a third language, at the end of the education. Therefore, although there is still a long way to go – and I am sure we still have room for improvement – the assessments made and the results obtained indicate that we are on the right track. Here it is not only about extending or generalizing the MET, it is about taking all the good things about the different experiments and trying to move forward. And it's not about resources, we can't go from 0 to 50, from 0 to 75 or from 0 to 100 overnight. I think we are on the right track, the number of centres that are being incorporated into multilingual projects is supporting us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Myria Llanos, a member of the Basque Society of Populak, made to the chief physician of Education, Language politics, and Culturate, "El Gobierno Vaso en ecilio." "Cronica de una spermranza." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, the documentary "The Basque Government in Exile. Chronicle of a Hope" was presented as one of Euskal Telebista's big bets as a public service in December 2014 before representatives of the current Basque Executive and representatives of different parties. It is a feature film and a documentary series of seven chapters in which prestigious professors from the University of the Basque Country and the University of Deusto have participated. The production, with a cost of around 200,000 euros, which for an entity that seems to have economic problems..., because, despite that, it was placed in a drawer by decision, it seems, of the current director, Eduardo Barinaga, also seems because it was incompatible with other projects that the management had in portfolio. We have also received news that the director of ETB came to disqualify this series by ensuring, very Ufano, that "The Basque Government in exile", with him at the head of EITB, would not be broadcast, and that, if forced to broadcast it, he would schedule it in the teleshopping schedule. It also seems that a call from Lehendakaritza last summer forced him to change his mind, but it also seems to be that, visibly annoyed by the call, he decided to schedule the series in late prime time schedule, i.e. from 11:30 p.m. There seems to be a bad faith around this project, both for the schedule of programming and for the sudden cut of the credits at the end of each issue and the absence of promotions and presentations in the press of this series and feature film, and in this regard there have been complaints issued to the EITB Directorate. That is why we want to ask you, Counsellor: can you give us the reasons why the issue of this documentary was delayed? Why, after presenting it to a bowl and dish, is it broadcast on such an unfavorable schedule? Is it true that a call from Lehendakaritza was necessary to finally emit the same?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u111	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u112	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Plains andrea, that's on. I could extend myself by giving countless explanations regarding the date of issue of the documentary entitled "The Basque Government in Exile. Chronicle of hope." However, I will not, because the date of issue has been decided for a simple reason of weight: the celebration of the anniversary of the constitution of the first Basque Government. Thus it was agreed at the time of presentation of the series between the director of EITB, Eduardo Barinaga, and the director of the series, Ander Landaburu, on the occasion of the anniversary. In addition, I have to add that it was even thought to issue such a documentary not in October 2015, as it was finally done, but in October 2016, coinciding in this way with the 80th anniversary. However, it was decided to advance the date of issue of the documentary to October of this year, in response to the requests of the persons who had participated in its realization, who were demanding its early issuance. As to the schedule of the documentary mentioned, we have shown several times how much difficulty and difficulty EIB must exceed the audience in the struggle for winning, because the programming of the stubborn canals is growing larger and larger. Thus the ETV must always be careful to examine what are the best hours for each program. As a result, ETB Manager decided to finish the program 'Mouto a Minuto' on Wednesday night. As the night given to political and controversial subjects is Wednesday, it was thought to be a convenient time for this kind of program. In short, I think that speaking of a deliberate delay does not agree with reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u114	Madam Counsellor, it is not a deliberate delay, the deliberate delay exists. What is not understandable is that, when so much is said by the management of the budgetary difficulties that the entity has, of the little budget that it has, 200,000 euros is spent on a documentary that intends to take two years to issue, two years to issue. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. And from the People's Group we understand that "The Basque Government in exile" is a good documentary, which is a series of quality and helps to learn about the history of the Basque Country. And we believe that it should have been treated much better from the point of view of the timetable that has been dealt with. Because, for example, with another documentary of the same characteristics – it seems that, yes, studied by the management, it did not do the same: with "Gernika Battalion", which is a documentary produced by Baleuko, which, let's not forget, was the producer in which the current director of EITB, his former company, that yes is programmed in prime-time, at ten and a half, and all kinds of promotions and presentations have been made. For example, brochures like this [[He showed a photoileto.]] and presentations with a lot more candy than the one given to the other documentary. And there have been complaints, of course there have been complaints. Recently, a group of prominent personalities from the University and Culture of the Basque Country and Navarra, among whom stand out the Rectors of the University of the Basque Country Gregorio Monreal and Pello Salaburu and a former adviser from the Basque Government, María del Carmen Gallastegui, sent a letter to the EITB Directorate requesting a change of schedule, as well as the complete issuance of the chapters. And the answer that was given, which was given to these people by the director of EITB, like the one she gave the other day at the EITB Council, certainly doesn't make any sense, is the same one that you gave here today, which was to be given next year on the occasion of the 80th anniversary. You don't understand. It is not understood – and therefore ETB goes as it goes – that a quality program is purchased to give it two years later.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u115	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u116	Mrs Llanos, as I said in my first speech, the issue of the documentary in October was agreed between the EITB Directorate and the director of the series. In any case, it should be noted that at first the EITB Directorate proposed to the producer and the director of the series a more comprehensive and comprehensive approach for 2016, on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the first Basque Government. This approach consists of four documentaries directed by young filmmakers, who will bring today the values that surrounded the lehendakari Aguirre and his Government, and a feature film about the person of José Antonio Aguirre and his exile, in addition to a series of events and exhibitions. This was the reason why the current documentary of "The Basque Government in Exile" was considered to gain greater weight and perfectly complement the project in this ephemeride in 2016. However, I repeat, in view of the insistence of the people who had participated in that documentary, it was decided to advance its release one year to October 2015. As for the time of issue, it is true that it is always questionable. However, the EITB Directorate always meets various criteria when selecting and planning its programming. You said the documentary that brought us here today was supposed to be in prime time. I'm not getting into that discussion. As I have said, the hours of different programs always occur indisputable. All the documentarys can't be given in prime time. The "Battle of Gernika" program, which you mentioned and tried to compare with the documentary we are dealing with today, is a Basque-French co-production, carried out by a Basque producer, a French producer, Euskaltel and ETB. It has a cinematic bill and combines experiences of gudaris and family, analysis of historians, fiction scenes that recreate the battle, special physical and digital effects, and unprecedented archival material. For all this, due to its specific characteristics, it was offered as a premiere, in the space "The Night of...", "Gernika Battalion. Hope of freedom" as an appropriate bet for such space.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of the New House of the Irandi EH gathered together to the chief physician of Education, Language politics, and Cultuate, around the race of Women's cycling. " The mistress of the house.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u118	I look like I've asked you a question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u119	Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u120	Andrea president. Ma'am, as you have remarked, the most important race of women's Bira in the Middle Ages is about the cycling of women. It's been unstoppably arranged for 28 years, and I assure you, we hope to continue organising from now on. There aren't many races organized in the women's cycling area, much less those that are organized in international levels. However, the woman's Life organist has always done an important job for years to be in the international calendar of women's cycling. And in our opinion, that effort is to applaud. We've seen high-level cyclists around: Marianne Vos, Emma Johansson, or leg Kampfernagel, among others. Or Joane Somarrib, so well known among our cyclists, has often triumphed over him. I know how important this race is for women's cycling, and we've always been willing to help. We've also given them some scholarships as international race is a level. The problem that now arises is that the UCI intends to copy the system used in men's cycling by 2016 and imposes the obligation for the return to be televised live, with the high costs involved. In any case, we are in contact with both the organisers of the test and the EITB to analyze the existing possibilities in this regard, and we will do our best to ensure that this test is next year on the Women's World Tour calendar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Madam of the New House, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u122	Good noon, everyone. Tourmalet, Mortilolo, Urkario... , hard mends for riders. But the most difficult thing about women is not playing on the road, and the hardest part is playing today and here, because it's hard and difficult to get the resources necessary for women's tour. The woman's Bira, as you have said, is the most important race of the Basque Women's cycling race, a first-class race, just like the Regeneration of Men's Basque Country. In 28 years, some people's voluntary labor has been exhausted by much sweat. But next year's tour of the women is on the line. In fact, the UCI has assigned a new duty to the revolution to be accepted at the World Tour. I mean, some TV network has to keep track of it, and it's exactly what you have to do every day and offer an hour's abstract... "It is not necessary to give them directly, and to offer them all an hour's delay every day, and to offer the final stage directly. That's what the UCI asked for. If the woman's tour is out of the World Tour, this will be her end. They wouldn't be able to guarantee a part of high-level riders and the funding would be reduced too. He is therefore at a cross-road, the Two of the Women: to advance or to disappear, to die or to live. The women's Regain crew has been asked to help ETB to do what the UCI calls for, but today-they're not sure that's how it's going to be like that. They're not sure that's how it's going to be. We hope you're overhearing the temptation to put my mind into other institutions. The local organizations are working with a lot less resource to protect the tour as far as they can, but the main concern is to help you help the most important cycling test in the Basque Country. It's all fucked up. That's why we want to find out if you're going to help a woman's Bir and give her the full support she needs, knowing it's not much, and we expect a positive response to women's sporting sport. The ladies' Bira doesn't ask her to pull me in the first row, but to give me a little relay. He's not asking us to track him like the Basque People's comeback. In fact, ETB on the men's tour makes direct progress every afternoon, and ETB4 offers a new evening, at noonday and on TV news, direct connections are made, and the summary and dialogues of night-time and night-time. The women's Bir schedulers are not asking for it. All they need is an hourly summary of the day and a direct emission of the last and last stage. What investment does that require? 50,000 euros? That's the number you just said. Is that number ready to go? Is that number ready to go? And if not, how do you justify it, knowing that it puts 190.000 euros in the Basque Country to come back? 190.000 euros for men's tour. What the woman's Bira needs is 50,000 euros. Is that number ready to go? That's what we want to know. The question is accurate, and we expect an exact answer: To keep the women's tour of World, to have a future, to give her the full help she needs, to make an hour's summary every day, and give her the final and final. The women's Bira deserves that and more. Because of the cyclists, of those people who work on voluntary work for so many years, and because we also want to see them in ETB because we want our daughters to think they can be a racer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u123	Thank you, Mrs. New House. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u124	We want to see ETV too. As I told you, we are in contact with the organisation of the Emakumeen Bira and with ETB to try to solve the problem and get that next year Emakumeen Bira can be held within the calendar of the UCI World Tour. In order to enter this calendar it is essential, zuk esan duzun bezala, the live broadcast, at least, of the last stage. In this way, the organizing entity is analyzing the possibility of organizing a four or five-stage lap with live delay of the last stage and recording 30 minutes from the previous stages, for which it has asked us to collaborate. When we have examined the matter with the ETB, we have agreed: we also take half the cost of taking over the recording and realisation that will be previously recorded, and making half the cost of giving it directly. This proposal has already been communicated to the organization, and has been received with great kindness. Now it belongs to organization, to the Surre Women's Bira Cycllism Association, 50% more so that a woman's Bir will have a place worth it next year. And we're sure that's how it will be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the Mist of the Gorka Maneiro Labay, a member of the House ofUPyD of Education, Policy, and Cultural Division, concerning the present present state of the Eden Arts Palace of Donostia." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u126	Thank you, President. All right, counselor, today you are earning your salary with all your interventions. You have one more question to answer. The Palacio Bellas Artes de San Sebastián was declared a cultural property inventoried by the Order of March 4, 2015, signed by yourself. So, just a few months ago. The Sade, owner of the palace, has recently knocked down its dome. The Basque Government is responsible for the preservation of the Basque cultural heritage. As such, I ask you: what decisions will the Government take on this matter? Are you going to assume your responsibility? Are you going to exercise your powers? When and how?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u127	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u128	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Don't worry, Mr. Maneiro, I'm delighted to answer all the questions. I am afraid that there have been numerous occasions when this Government has spoken on the subject of Fine Arts, both through written replies sent to this Parliament – the last one was sent this Wednesday – and through oral replies on this stage, for example, on 30 October. Therefore, so I can deduce from your question, you still have doubts about the responsibility of preserving the Fine Arts. Well, the preservation of a building, whether or not protected by the cultural order, is an obligation that always belongs to its owner; of course, also in the case of the Palacio Bellas Artes de San Sebastián. And what we have to do is, on our side, offer our help to the firm's company with the fertility of the building so that they can do the best they can. We're talking about the Building of The Fine Arts of the Worlds of Gipuz, with mutual consent and co-ordination. Thus it was agreed that the dome of the building was withdrawn and rebuilt, because it was in the ruins of the dome. It was in a highly advanced state of decomotion, and consequently it was necessary that the dome should retire, and then re-establish itself in a philological fashion. And so it was asked for Sade. As you know, Sadd has already withdrawn the dome and will have to rebuild it under the terms indicated. The company will have to rebuild it, or, if necessary, according to the law of the Ondaria, it will be possible to make the Gipulia Indgerous Foru of the Gipulia by means of works which cannot be postponed in subsidy, either directly or by the council. And that's what they're gonna be doing, because they're gonna have a shake-down, even through economic help, and through any kind of interaction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u130	Thank you, President. I was not asking you so much about the things that have been happening in recent times, but specifically whether the Basque Government is going to assume its responsibility, because here the Basque Government has a lot to say, and what steps it will take in the coming weeks or months to resolve this situation. In any case, we can indeed review some facts and see whether or not the Basque Government has complied with the current law, because we think that in some of its points it has not been so. Indeed, the Sade has knocked down the dome, but it has not rebuilt it nor seems that it intends to do so. The Basque Government, in our view, has failed to comply with section 35.2 of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act, which states that it may require the owner not to take care of the cultural good and, if not, carry out the necessary works directly. This is therefore one of the responsibilities of the Basque Government. The law has also been breached in its article 36, as it has allowed the destruction of the dome of the Fine Arts without prior declaration of ruin and without fulfilling the precondition of disaffection by the Basque Government. We would like you to clarify whether, in fact, you consider that the Basque Government has failed to comply with the law. The dome has been knocked down without opening the mandatory ruin declaration file, the result of which could be either deaffection or refusal to deaffect it. Therefore, what we demand of the Government is that it assume its responsibility and demand the immediate replacement of the dome by the owner or the subsidiary intervention of the Administration. And there, at that point, indeed, the Basque Government has to assume its responsibility. The Basque Government declares a well-cultural building in Euskadi and is primarily responsible for the preservation of the Basque cultural heritage. The Basque Government, therefore, has to exercise its powers, it is the highest and foremost responsible for taking care of our heritage. So what we are asking is for the Basque Government to act quickly and decisively so that San Sebastian does not end up losing this palace. This is what we demand of him, therefore: that he act and act now, that they comply with the law and that they replenish the dome of the Palacio Bellas Artes de San Sebastián in an imminent way, and in any case, before the end of the year. Do you commit to it? There are many people who are interested in knowing your answer. Are you committed to restoring this building and replenishing the dome before the end of the year? Yes or no? What are you going to do? We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u131	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u132	Forgive my smile, Mr. Maneiro, but trying to get the rebuilt dome in its place by the end of the year is an impossible, that is, it does not enter any head. Anyway, I'm going to read article 35.2, which you said, "When owners of qualified or inventoryed goods..." – in this case, the Palace of Fine Arts – "... failing to comply with the obligations laid down in Article 20, the relevant foreign parliament, on its own initiative or at the request of the department responsible for culture of the Basque Government, may require that it be complied with within an appropriate period and, if not, order its subsidiary execution on behalf of the owner. "In the same way, the foral parliament may directly carry out the necessary works which are irreplaceable in order to ensure the integrity of the good. Direct execution does not prevent its cost from being paid by the owner if appropriate." But, anyway, we've always had the bet on the Building of Fine Arts, and I don't think that anybody would doubt it. We supported the building with its features and its present situation in the most suitable manner, with the betting on the use and preservation of the building, and thus, with the protection of the Board of Counsell, we introduced the building in general the Inventaries of Euskal Calulture. The retention obligation of the holder is stipulated by the Heritage Act, and this Government will do its utmost to ensure its compliance. In fact, the Basque Government has already formally requested that the established legal mandate be fulfilled as soon as possible, i.e. that the dome of the Bellas Artes Palace be repositioned, existing water filtration problems resolved and concrete repaired in the areas affected by such filtrations, thereby complying with the established legal mandate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of Arri Zulaika Portillo, the Chief of Education, Language, and Cultural Department, concerning the deplorable conditions of public works which the Board of Education assigns."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u134	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. Today, again, we bring charges of the most vulnerable conditions in public works. The ELA union has long been looking at the conditions of public works that have been assigned. Thus, according to what has been reported, the conditions of works which the Board of Education promotes are particularly serious. We have sometimes learned that prerogative is extreme: workings infinitely endless, with solsts of misery, and pitiful measures of security. To give only two examples of the Xabier Munibe School, the Musikene of Donostania or Aquinas. In front of that, the union asked Preco for a meeting with the members of AMAND to open the appointment. On the 9th of October, however, no one of the Government appeared. On this account, from the collected EH, we ask Kristina the head physician of education: Is it true that no one came to the meeting called the Council of Work Relations to the desperate conditions of various public jobs in October on the 9th?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u136	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Zulaika, good morning. In the justification of your question, you make a long list of confirmations. It's true that you've reported the report about the ELA unions, but I think you're willing to hear the Eucomune's opinion before you know it. Asked me if it was true that you weren't at the meeting called in October 9th, at a meeting called by ELAk. You must know that Preco is an intermediary service between workers and a company who hires them for a special job in this case. I'm sure you'll get the job done, but it's not working with the workers who work. That's why we didn't go to the meeting. As you say, ELA, by this meeting, intended to interview with the members of the government, to examine the conditions of the work of certain works, or at least what has been told you, but I don't think they have given you all the information: we were already in conversation. Look, a meeting with ELA on this issue took place in Lakua on 30 June. There he moved his complaints and doubts to us, and we cleared them up. And those questions that we had to analyze we did, we realized that later by phone. In addition, department and union officials remained in contact. In this reality, the dialogue has existed for a long time. Another thing is to want to give the matter a media dimension.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u138	Thank you again, ma'am. To ensure that worthy conditions of work and security are fulfilled, we believe that the inspection must do a severe work, and even more in the works imposed by the Administration itself. But, further, the problem does not arise when these works begin; the problem arises under the conditions under which these assignments are applied. It's a matter of change from the root. The criterion, above all, which is considered in reference to these works is the price. It's for the lowest price company that's making that work. It is well known that corporations do not usually reduce the price by diminishing their profits, but by diminishing the wages of the workers. Thanks to the premeditation of the workers, many companies acquire these works, thanks to the prevention of the necessary measures in security, and often owing to the lack of quality in the work itself. The result is that we fall from the roof of Musya's house, for instance. Thank goodness it happened before the opening! There's a serious situation in public finances, but it's the most important thing to do that is to promote the administration itself, to be under the lowest rates the Administration has assigned. But we must not only observe the price of the exit, for we see how the works are assigned under 40% of the price of the exit. Some companies have admitted that it is impossible to apply the terms of work, which work agreements impose on the prices assigned to it, to the workers. Musikene obrari buruzko adibide bat jartzeagatik, azpikontrata bati irekitak espedient batek horrela said: "The company has recognized the irregularities reported by the union and has proceeded to remedy them. Likewise, both parties have found that with the prices with which public works are being awarded it is impossible to comply with the collective agreements applicable to workers". These are just examples. And such practices indicate even the hidden reductions, but not only the reductions in the budget, but also the reductions of the rights. And, on the other hand, ma'am, we know that Preco's not necessary, but that's what tells us is that it's really time for us to change the serious situation as a pain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u140	Mrs. Zulaika, Precone doesn't solve anything. Let us consider the facts: When the company hires a company or a ABEE to do a few jobs, it's an commitment to a lot of things like that, and a bunch of conditions to be fulfilled. These terms are taking place. So I speak here in words, and you are talking about the deplorable measures of safety. Look: when we make a contract, we also hire a service to ensure the safety of our work. It's our responsibility, and we do it. And according to the reports we have in our hands, it's one of the conditions of security. If the music roof fell, it was because the weight it could hold was calculated badly, not because it was safe. It also talks about endless working hours. At the above-mentioned meeting on 30 June, the ELA union criticized, for example, that some workers had worked on holidays. The matter was analyzed and it was found that it was the workers themselves, natives of Asturias, who asked to work during two feasts of Euskadi, in order, later, to be able to enjoy two feasts corresponding to Asturias. Even though we're not responsible, we care about it. The contracting companies ensure that at least the conditions laid down in the sector agreement are met; if this were not the case, it would be for the Labour Inspectorate to analyse the fact. I repeat that our competition is what it is. In its view, the facts complained of by the ELA trade union are directly related to the conditions of public contracts. At this point, I would like to explain to you how these awards are carried out. The administration specifies the price of liquidation in a reasonable way based on some standard calculations. Then the interesting companies offer their offer, their competitions more or less interest in the work, economic situations: in the circumstances of the offer, all these factors are decisive. Finally, a technical contractal table examines these offers and decides. In short, it's like every contract in the town, and, oh no, it's a rule.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Second point on the subject list: "Interfection, the U.S.C.R.R.A.A.R.A.A.S.I.S.I.E.E.L.E.E.E.A.S.A. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 155 years ago Florence Nightingale, the nurse who started the professionalization of the nursing group, already sent nurses to the homes to consult; they recorded the activity, published notes, made charts with the results and studied the etiology of the diseases. 155 years later, what is the position of the infirmary? And in what situation is the infirmary in Euskadi? Let's look at three aspects. Nurse prescription. In Madrid, the Governing Council has recently adopted a royal decree on nursing prescriptions for nurses, which removes virtually every nursing capacity to make prescriptions, as it requires that every time a prescription is to be made there must be a medical diagnosis, a medical prescription, a medical treatment and a rehabilitation. Therefore, it has removed any possibility of nursing development in terms of prescription, including removing capacities that have already been realized. The councillor has declared that, indeed, he will appeal this decree as soon as it is published, and we agree with it, we believe that it is a great setback for the profession of nurse the fact that they withdraw skills developed, and developed satisfactorily by the population and by the collective itself. But we already know that speeches are free. What about the practice of nursing in Euskadi? Nurses today have a great capacity, a great training. They are entitled, also do specialties and have the will and training to carry out an autonomous task. And what's going on? Let's look at two aspects. We have already seen that the nursing prescription in Euskadi, as in the rest of Spain, is pending a thread. What about the nursing consultation? Thus, the independent nurse consultation, which the nurse conducts directly with the patient, at the consultation or at home, has been developed practically exclusively in primary care. And that, of course, began 20 years ago in Euskadi and with great medical opposition, to the point that to put them into practice it was necessary to disguise the benefits that a nurse consultation brought to the system, disguised them in front of the doctors, so that they could allow it to develop, to develop, pointing out that it was to avoid bureaucratic activities to the doctors, that is, they became parts of high and low, parts of confirmation, continuity of long-term treatments, nothing that could offend the doctor in his development as a health profession. The same has happened with the decree of the prescription nurse. The first to have declared their great compliance with this decree have been the medical schools; specifically, in Euskadi, the Gipuzkoa College has declared that it is very in agreement with this decree that withdraws the capacity to the nursing. As I say, the primary care consultation is developing, it has developed, but in a dark, difficult, complicated way and, above all, it does not harm doctors in anything that they may feel at risk in their authority and hierarchical capacity. And what about management participation? Well, here we have a new royal decree, which has not been published either, but which sets in motion the clinical management units. In Euskadi, clinical management units have been set up in many hospitals and in some OSI as well, for example in Mendaro. In Mendaro there was already a long development of clinical management units, at the moment five had been launched, with the peculiarity that two of them were run by nurses (the Clinical Management Unit of the O.R. and the Clinical Management Unit of Hospitalization, but apparently did not like the medical class. And I didn't like it, why? From the very beginning they said that there would be no economic incentives and they also said, analyzing the tasks carried out in management, that there were certain possibilities of saving avoiding self-concertations, a decision that did not like the medical hierarchy either. And what happened? I will tell you what has happened, you will interpret. First the manager, manager who had fostered this development, this capacity of the nurses, this participation, which by the way is described as mandatory, almost, in the description of the clinical management units, the participation of all the professionals, and I believe that there are the nurses included. As I say, first, stop the manager, and a new manager arrives who, apparently, should have come up with some decisions or proposals in which she had to immediately cease the nursing director. And what happened next? That 19 nursing supervisors resigned; resigned for an unjust cessation and because they felt all censored in their development, in their nursing capacity. The underlying question here is: What now is going to happen here in Euskadi? What are you going to do, counselor? Because Mendaro did not make decisions on the development of clinical management on his own, they were approved criteria in the department. Everything that was done in Mendaro was done with the agreement of the department, but apparently they have clashed with the medical class. And at this point, what we want to know is whether the counselor exclusively aligns himself with defending privileges of the medical class or understands that for the sake of the health system, in Euskadi, for it to be more sustainable and more efficient, it requires the participation of nurses, but also with responsibilities. Just as we support the development of the nursing prescription, we want the nurse to develop an autonomous consultation in hospitals as well, we want her to participate in clinical management, and we want to know her position on it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. Mrs Roncal, you are going to allow me not to follow the order of the different subjects that you have mixed up in the interpellation in order to answer you, because many of them, at least I, do not see any relationship between them. The truth is that I have had to read several times the text of the inquiry to know exactly if I wanted to respond to the nursing prescription, if I wanted to respond to the cessation of Mendaro's nursing director, or if I wanted to respond to Osakidetza's nursing management model, which is not the same as Mendaro's, is part of the organization as a whole. Well, in any case, I am glad to see the opportunity to highlight the role of the nursing profession in Osakidetza and the consideration we have from both the Department of Health and the Osakidetza Directorate. You have raised serious issues that affect professionals and patients, such as the so-called Royal Nursing Prescription Decree, to which I will refer later. He has also mentioned, as I said, the termination of a high office in the Basque public administration and the model of care, which, as I said at the beginning, have no relationship. Let me remind you that the leaders of Osakidetza are senior officials of the Government, and the nursing directorates of the Osakidetza service organizations are part of them. Act No. 8/97 of the Basque Health Organization and Decree No. 255/1997 of the Social Statutes of the Osakidetza Public Authority regulate the terms on which the terminations and appointments of the senior positions of the Osakidetza organizations are carried out, establishing that it is the manager of each health organization who proposes the appointments and terminations, and the Osakidetza Directorate-General who has the power to execute them. It is absolutely normal that when a manager assumes the direction of a hospital or an integrated health organization he wants to surround himself with the team he considers most appropriate and his confidence in the project that each time each of the organizations needs to pose. And, therefore, it is also quite usual for it to bring forward any changes it deems appropriate, a fact which the legislation allows and foresees. On November 18, OSI manager Debabarrena appeared before the Health and Consumer Affairs Committee of this Parliament and gave all relevant explanations. On the other hand, you know in depth our health care system and you know that in the 33 years of Osakidetza's history it has been exceptional to ask for accounts in Parliament for the termination of senior positions, and at least I remember it is the first time that a senior position of Osakidetza after a substantive cessation a appearance to give your opinion on the reasons for the loss of confidence, as happened with the Director of Nursing. You stated in the question that the specific policy recently carried out by the Department of Health has been to eliminate and suppress the empowerment of nursing in terms of management, ceasing both the Director of Nursing and the Head of Clinical Management of Surgery. The Director of Nursing at OSI Debabarrena, in fact, was ceased. He's been in office for 15 years. He has held a vacant post with five different Governments. It seems sufficient time to develop the project and assume a replacement, if it is considered so by those who at that time have the capacity to decide (specifically, the manager). Over the course of the current legislature, eight nursing directorates of Osakidetza's service organizations have ceased to appoint others for the same reason, and 17 nursing directorates of Osakidetza have ceased in the past legislature. And I see nothing extraordinary about it, except that none or none of the previous ones, either in this legislature or in the previous one, appeared in Parliament. As for the alleged termination of the head of the Clinical Management Unit of the O.R., I have to correct the terms, since this person was not ceased: he proposed the resignation and, simply, the management accepted it. As you know, he had a very close relationship with the high office. She also talks to me about other nursing supervisors, most of whom are appointed by the Ceaselled Director, and that they have preferred to return to their basic positions of origin. I have nothing to say. Management positions are positions of trust, and therefore may or may not be confirmed by the Government, its autonomous agencies or public bodies when deemed appropriate. In this particular case, I repeat, the managing director of OSI Debabarrena considered it opportune to propose changes to his management team. It is a normal fit and performance, and under no circumstances does it call into question the work of the nursing department, neither of Osakidetza nor of the organization of the services in question. Nurses managers' office is a reliable part of the hospital organizational schedule, and in that case a manager has the right to call his team's posts first, now and always. With regard to the central theme of the inquiry, I would like to make clear the commitment of the Department of Health, and of the Basque Government as a whole, to the health system and to all its professionals, also to the nursing staff. In any case, I think it is important and I am glad that you too have realised the importance of this professional group in the Basque health system. In the three years we've been in the legislature, I think this is the first time you've ever been interested in questions or questions about the role of nursing. I celebrate it. This Department of Health and this advisor, on the other hand, make it clear that nursing is a key part of our health system. It will allow me to remind you of the general guidelines of the Department of Health raised on 18 February 2013, and I read it textually. "In relation to nursing we will develop the new nursing roles. We believe that we need to develop both the hospital liaison nursing and the advanced practice nursing, and align them with the care needs of patients." In the chapter dedicated to patient empowerment and self-management, we said: "We will move forward in the line of empowering the patient from nursing, especially through well-structured health education actions to improve outcomes in patient empowerment and facilitate the control of chronic processes." And in the chapter dedicated to pharmacy, on February 18, 2013, we said: "We consider pharmaceutical delivery to be a key element in achieving greater efficiency of the health system; therefore, we will seek innovation in the forms of management of pharmacy services and in the provision through medical prescription and nursing prescription." As you can see, from the beginning we were already talking about the important role of nursing. Nursing staff is an essential part, present in all areas of action: primary care, emergencies, hospitalization, operating rooms, consultations, special units, health transport, active patient, health education, health advice, teaching and research and in the management of the system itself. No wonder they're the majority category. Nursing has to develop an increasingly active and relevant role in essential processes. An essential caregiver role, always from the nearest position. Osakidetza has opted for an integral development of the nursing process, we are betting on the development of advanced skills, for the new roles, for a greater role from a health care in a teamwork. I don't think you can make a clinical management unit for surgery without anesthesiologists and surgeons, I don't think so. Any clinical management unit has to incorporate all professionals. We are also promoting nurse managers, as I said earlier, we are promoting postgraduate training with the new nursing specialties. In relation to the Royal Decree regulating the indication, use and authorization of dispensation of medicinal products for human use by nurses (the so-called prescription of a nurse) I must inform you that we do not agree with the decision of the Minister of Health to change the original wording of the Royal Decree, a modification that undervalues the nursing staff and that moreover does not respect the previous agreements of the Interterritorial Council. We do not understand unilateral change, not even by electoral calculation. We do not understand that we have not been officially informed or explained, as at least it would have been of minimal courtesy, although, to tell the truth, we are accustomed after the last four years of continuous misconceptions in the ministry's health policy. A consensus text in the Inter-Territorial Council has been unilaterally amended without the knowledge or consensus of the parties and without any explanation. On March 26, 2015, we showed our support for the development of nursing prescription in the Interterritorial Council – and this is how it appears in the relevant minutes. We are convinced that orderly progress, improving professional skills and teamwork are essential tasks for the future of our health system, for its quality and sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u145	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u146	Thank you, President Andrea. In some things we agree, Mr. Counsellor; in the subject of nursing prescription totally, in the rest nothing. For in the account of what has happened in Mendaro you have escaped by the general regulations; you cannot hide in that. Look, the story of what happened in Mendaro is not the possibility a manager has of naming his team. Of course I do! Here no one doubts that the high offices and the positions of trust are of free appointment and free cessation, we do not doubt it. It's just the story of what happened. You want to disguise him as a new manager and make a new team. Hey, do you know any other cases in a hospital in Euskadi where they first stop the manager, then they stop the director of nursing and then 19 chief supervisors resign? Well, I don't know it. And on the other hand, I am surprised that it seems wrong for us to bring these issues here, when they only mean more transparency, more democracy for Osakidetza, better functioning for Osakidetza. And that is the desire that moves us to bring these issues here, because we want you to be able to explain it to us if everything is well done. Don't tell us it's just because there's a right to do it. The right to do so does exist, but why did the previous manager cease? Why isn't the new one able to explain more than "I don't have confidence in the new director of nursing"? But if he could not have time neither trust nor mistrust! And on the other hand there is another thing that is also very striking: I don't know if you know, but about Mendaro's new supervisors we already knew who would be appointed before they were appointed by the management, because already a medical chief had communicated it by the hospital. Does that seem normal to you, too? It's also transparency, but here, all we see is medical direction, medical criteria against the development of the nurse's autonomous profession. In all Mendaro's decisions – in all – what there is is a pulse, a confrontation between the medical management and the medical chiefs against the nurses. And for the manager, his obligation is to resolve a conflict with respect and dignity for all parties. And here there has been a part that has not been treated with respect or dignity, of course, for the contribution he had made for so long, as you say, to Mendaro Hospital. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u148	Mrs. Roncal, look, you're trying to make a porrusalda, but you're a parliamentarian, and a cook... well, I haven't had the taste, but the ingredients look bad. First, the replacement of the previous manager, who was not stopped – who was not stopped – has nothing to do with the nursing project. Mrs. Roncal, changes in directions are made every time a manager arrives, it's always the case. It's always like that. It has been so in this legislature and it has been so in the past, and you, who have been the manager of a hospital, should know. It does not change to three years, unless there is a problem; it changes when one arrives. Do you feel like a little 15 years in the government's exercise? Yeah? Why is he the only one who cares about you, the replacement of a nursing address? Why is she the only one that worries you and doesn't worry you about the previous ones? I will not remind you of glorious episodes of replacements at other times. I'm gonna insist, look, I'm gonna insist. Mendaro's nursing project is exactly the same as that of the other projects of the rest of the integrated health organizations of Gipuzkoa and Osakidetza as a whole, there is no separate project. In the clinical management project, we are against – and we have also expressed this in the Inter-Territorial Council – that it is basically legislated in what we believe to be a management tool, because we understand that management tools must have a margin of flexibility and should not be basic state legislation. Secondly, we do not understand that clinical management, which is the incorporation of all the professionals in charge of a service – all the professionals in charge of a service – is strictly, exclusively, in a professional category, whatever that may be. It's not a problem with doctors and nurses. I wouldn't understand a clinical management unit in hospitalization where there were no nurses, auxiliaries and cellists, in the same way that it seems foolish to me to make a clinical management unit in an operating room without the anesthesiologists or surgeons. We can call it something else. To have services by category, there have always been them, they are called nursing units, they are called medical services, they are called the administrative area of cellers... That has always been the case; therefore, a clinical management unit composed exclusively of the O.R. nurses and the supervisor, therefore, is no more than the O.R. nursing service. Don't look for three feet of the cat, don't look for three feet of the cat. No confrontation or anything. What has happened is a new orientation of the center based on what it interprets that it has to be a manager of maximum experience and that it has considered that at that time in some categories it needed a replacement. There's nothing else, Your Honor. Now, anyway, you've spent more time in Mendaro than I have. But, well, if so, I'm glad you explain it to me and tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u149	Thank you, chief physician. A third point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, made to the Chief Department of Environmental and Regional Policy, around the Begoña elevator." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u150	Egun on. Eguerdi on, better. Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Oregi, from your apartment it was announced three months ago that the Basque Government would restart the Begoña elevator. The Begoña elevator is not just any elevator. It has operated in Bilbao for 65 years – since 1949 – and stopped doing so a year and four months ago. I would dare say that it reaches the category of the funicular of Artxanda or the Carola crane, almost. I'm not going to waste time telling you how you've come to this moment, but this elevator, apart from the service it did to its users, is architecturally unique, as you know. In fact, it is a building protected by the Basque Government, it belongs to the expressionist rationalism. And that's why it's not just about fixing the elevator – which I suppose would be easier – but it's about rehabilitating the entire infrastructure. We understand that the process of reversal and conditioning takes time, but since September 1st this announcement of intentions was made by your department, I do not know if you are already in a position to be more concrete, to give dates, to confirm if finally the Bilbaos will be able to count on the elevator again, and that is why I ask you, Mrs Oregi, when the Bilbaos will count again with the service of the Begoña elevator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u152	Mr. President, Congressman, good morning. Yes, Mrs Ruiz, indeed, there have been a number of complications – I would say – in the administrative processing of the reversal and the different procedures that must be done in order to be able to enter into that good and carry out the actions that we need. At the moment we are awaiting the resolution of different procedures, which are the request for entry into the premises made before the judge, the request for the registration of the right of reversal of the estates affected by the provision of the service, and all this also without prejudice to the decision adopted by the General Treasury of Social Security in connection with the award made by the auction of the estate in which the entrance to the aforementioned elevators of Begoña is located. Until these issues are resolved and the effective reversal of the assets to the Administration – to our Administration – does not occur, we cannot accurately determine the state of preservation of the said assets or the date of commissioning of the service.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u154	Mrs Oregi, I did not know that the administrative procedures were still in that situation, which explains and justifies in part how we find ourselves. But, in any case, I understand that as soon as they are resolved – which I don't know what time it can take – a study will be commissioned to define what the repairs are, which has been committed to, including the cost and the deadlines for implementation. And so formulated, what we have all interpreted is that there is a firm will and intention to take over that infrastructure. Another issue will come after who manages it, whether the Basque Government will do it or the Bilbao City Council will do it, but apart from the fact that I cannot answer my question, because it cannot set time limits since administrative procedures still prevent progress with the study, and without knowing how to intervene and what works to do, it is difficult to quantify in time and resources, if I would be more calm and more satisfied if I unmistakably deduced from his answer that, apart from what the study says, this elevator will finally be rehabilitated and put into service, either by the Basque Government or by the Bilbao City Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u156	Yes, a little, to clarify some more issue of the problems. On 3 September, the successful tenderer – the operator – appeared and expressed opposition to the delivery of the goods at the reception ceremony. He also filed an administrative appeal, which is currently being heard by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. That is why it is very difficult for us to give dates, because it is not in our hands. In addition, there was also an auction announcement of the longline that is affected by the public service. From the Government, the General Treasury of Social Security was warned how we had this condition, but, however, it continued with the award and was awarded Real Estate Bilgomu 2012. We have also contacted them, with the successful tenderer, warning them that they have been awarded a public service property, on which a reversal decision has been issued since 16 July 2015. With regard to the resumption of the service, we have requested authorization for entry to facilities intended for the provision of the public service by the concessionaire Ascensores a Begoña, for the following reasons: abandonment of the concession, declaration of expiry, request of the Bilbao City Council to maintain the security area of the facilities, desire and intention of the Basque Government to resume the service, either by its own or by others, and the court has not so far given us any reply. Also, on 22 September 2015, the Director of Heritage and Procurement requested the Registry of Property number 7 of Bilbao to proceed with the preventive notation of the condition of the estates, of the loon and of the orchard to the public service of Ascensors to Begoña and the right of reversal in favor of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, as a result of the expiration of the concession, and neither from the Registry of Property have we received so far any reply. We are waiting for all these procedures to be resolved and we are talking with one another so that, once that resolution is known, we can enter the facilities to determine the state of conservation, the necessary works and the possibility of carrying out such works in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-27.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-nine.
