ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "The same proposal as the Socialists of Euscal, made by the legislature, concerning re-establishment of the housing, and the planning of an organization for the restoration of the cities. As far as the other proposal is concerned, it must be decided once for all by the convention of November 19, according to the 92.1 article of the ruler." It was a draw by the Euscal Socialists and the EH Collectations vote for the media corrections introduced. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 36; the opposites, 37; the whites, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u1	This point of middle-correction was not therefore accepted. We'll next vote for the general correction of the US patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the opposites, 36; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u2	As a result, the US patriots have accepted the full correction of the group. First point in theme list: "The understanding of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, of Manuel Michelna Iguuare, concerning the mutual compatibility of the legislature. Discipline and final resolution. A member of the board favors the judgment... ? No. On the contrary? No. That's all we're going to vote for. We're gonna vote for the union committee's resolution. Except the members of the legislative society, which is related to the Constitution, the rest of the legislature will vote, except the members of the legislature themselves, all the rest of the community. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u3	Therefore judgment is unanimously approved. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, introduced by the Congress of the Homeer Barbadillo EH Collector, about the position that the State can take against the Parliament of Catalonia. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Erriz, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u4	Good morning, everyone. The Constitutional Court of Spain was a verdict against the Parliament of Catalonia, where the law of Spain was once more used to oppress the democratic rights of the people of Catalonia, I made a thorough interpelation to President Urkullulus, and the only answer I obtained was that in a meeting with President Arthur Mase had given the proposal to reform the Stated. According to Artur Mas's political diagnosis, there is no possibility of making a democratic change in the Spanish State, if that is proposed the direction of the reforms he was proposing. That is to say, Artur Mas and 48% of the population of Catalonia do not think that the State of Spain has a political will to confess as a nation of Catalonia, and to respect it (auto-determination Right, and others) as well. Besides, 48% of the people of Catalonia don't think it's a matter of moment, or of the political party that's going to be in the Spanish government; In Catalonia, in recent years, they found that the new State of the Spanish State, supported by their Parliament, had been completely disfigured in Madrid. By denying all partiality, they have suffered that all requests of conversation were neglected. They have suffered the severe effects of economic suffocation applied by Madrid, and they have been insulted every time they have raised their voices. The thousands of citizens who have never been a catalanist in Catalonia are not willing to continue in the Spanish State which treats them so badly, because the Spanish State thinks differently, or punishs what is different from what it feels. And no, it is not a matter of moment; it is not a question of the political party in the Spanish Government, which is an idident of the Spanish State. What is thought or felt differently, what is different, is trampled on by the State of Spain, by its identity, by its identity, by the foundation it has built upon, always by the opposition of others. And we agree with that political diagnosis, which is not that of Arthur Mas, and much less that of the political culture that he historically represents: that of pactism at all costs, of a crumbling CiU, a CiU that made politics a real business. We agree with the political diagnosis of that 48 %, of that Catalan social and political majority, which has had the ability to place President Mas, so that we do not take away any of his political merits, much less. That is why we are not at all surprised, Mr Urkullu, that President Mas replied that he did not count on him to try to reform the model of state. Because he, like you, knows it's absolutely impossible. There is no possible political change in the Spanish State from within it. You have to get out of it to force him to change. It is the only way to make it recognize the Basque and Catalan nations and respect the process of self-determination of them. And the gentlemen of PP, PSOE and Citizens make it very clear why this change is impossible from within the Spanish state: because they intend to use all the weight of their law to crush the democratic demands represented by the majority will of Basques and Basques. A state pact is currently being concluded around Catalonia and will not expire on 20 December. They (the PP, the PSOE, Citizens) intend to decide the political future of Catalonia apart from what their citizens think, legitimately represented in their institutions. They, who deny the existence of the Catalan nation, impose a law approved by the majority of Spanish citizens to crush the rights that democratically correspond to Catalans and Catalans. They use Spanish sovereignty to crush Catalan sovereignty and destroy it. This is how bilaterality is understood. In the meantime, the course of freedom is full of dangers, obstacles, and threats, it is true. Sure. It's always been like that. The path which has led a people to liberty has never been easy and quiet; it is always a safer and more tranquil condition of dependence. Artur Mas just said again: "Freedom has a price and is very expensive, but the cost of dependence is unacceptable." It's important that every ruler who wants to lead his people should always have legs on the ground. But watch, feet on the floor, not knees. The knees, as far as possible, never touched the ground. The position of genuflexion subtracts political perspective, because from below it looks very little. You should always have your feet on the ground, but with your feet it's more than enough. We have before us a state that wants us bent, wants us submissive. He does not accept that a people, a small political community of 7 million inhabitants (what can we say of ours, of just three), wants to decide their own political future, in order to be able to build a new country, a different country. That state must be told loud and clear that, when a law and its application is unjust, putting before it the rights of citizens, whether Basques or Catalans, is an ethical obligation for anyone who intends to represent his people with dignity in an institution. Catalonia's opening the door. It's not our new door. For forty years we've fought to prevent this door from ever closing, and we've managed to get the door, all of us, because the transitions want to shut up the entire independence of the Basque People once and for all, because it's finally opening up. It is true that this people did not arrive at this opportunity under the conditions which we might wish for, but even this has been the result of a long, severe struggle. Now, in Catalonia, better terms have been collected to open the door. We cannot lose this choice, because the Spanish State is weaker than ever, and we have its weakness. Mentors and violent answers prefer the weakness of the state. The political change in the state is being altered by those who have boasted that it was possible about a year ago. They're the ones who're changing. Now they themselves speak of reforming the Constitution. Now they themselves praise the transition, the door which tried to close the Basque People's future. They were left at the center, in that empty space where the left and right do not exist, if there is anywhere. In the Catalunia process the efficient process was rejected, for the public affairs of Catalonia would also be solved within a state-wide process. In Catalonia, as in others before, the independence of Spain was again used to cancel the independence of independent nations without state. Recetas viejas en bocas de partados in nuevos. The Spanish State is sinking because it has no way of paying off its debts. In this state it must appeal to the synthesis of its institutional architecture, the other because it is irresistible. There's no coffee for all of us, and there won't be any coffee. If the model of the autonomical statue does not cease, it will continue to empty it with its rights, as it is doing. This is the essence of the centralization. State needs to drain autonomy to survive. He's in it, even here. In the last 30 years, he took more than $15,000 euros from us. That's, for years, a systematic failure. Maltrato sismutánico a la sociedad vasca por part del Estodo Spanish. Y además Tien la cara de acusarnos de insolidaries. But let's not deceive us. In order to defend what we have, it is the only effective way to step forward in the course of independence, if we remain in the position of defending what we have, in a purely defensive attitude, because they will continue to empty our own self-portrait more and more. We'll have jurisdictions, but those jurisdictions will be empty. We come today to say that with political will (the one we have missed during these three long years) the parliamentary majority that exists in favour of the right to decide of the Basque people can be activated. We have come to say that we can use the instruments we have at hand today to make them the tools that will build the future of a free and sovereign country, a new state in Europe. We have come to say that the twenty-one parliamentarians of EH Bildu are ready and ready for debate, negotiation and agreement, with the sole aim of making Basques and Basques the sole owners of the future of their people. We have come to say that we are prepared for the democratic confrontation with a state that despises us as a people, but that for this we need agreements between Basques and Basques, beyond even these four walls. If this is a law that will pass through history for nothing in a very important historical occasion, or, perhaps, for nothing at all, if it is a law which history will soon forget, it may perhaps be best to conclude as soon as possible. If this be not, we certainly expect the next law of independence, to have a law of right to decide. For this reason, EH Biltach asks the Parliament for the following day: two, to deprive the Constitutional jurisdiction of the Spanish Constitution, which denies the rights of the Basque People; and three, to request the Spanish State to negotiate with the Federal and Social Confederational Government, which has been decided by the political and social majority of Catalonia. Also, because in terms of solidarity we must move from words to facts (although today we do not bring it to a vote, we do bring it to a debate), we propose the creation of an inter-institutional, inter-group committee, composed of representatives of the Catalan Parliament and of this Parliament, opening the possibility also to the participation of the Parliament of Navarre if it so decided. It is time to take steps, it is time to learn from each other, from the other's constituent process, and that one can lean on the other, and that both are necessary to break down that door that closes the path to freedom. Because the objective of the Catalan people and the Basque people is the same. Mr Urkullu and Mr Mas failed to agree on the road map, on the road to sovereignty. Perhaps the change of partners, perhaps increasing the number of partners, will help to create synergies to open the door of the Spanish State, and that before late we can talk about a Basque state and a Catalan state in a different Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u6	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. I have come to say that it is certainly difficult to accumulate so much democratic ignorance in just ten minutes of intervention. EH Bildu in his initiative proposes that this Parliament express its recognition and respect for the democratic agreement adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia on 9 November 2015. We have come to say that it is not a democratic agreement at all, but it is a deeply undemocratic agreement. And, by calling it clearly, it is really a coup d'état that has taken place in Catalonia. EH Bildu proposes that this Parliament reject the annulment by the Constitutional Court of the resolution adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia on 9 November 2015. We obviously do not reject it; we support it. EH Bildu proposes that this Parliament should state that the Constitutional Court does not have the legitimacy to annul the agreements freely adopted by the Catalan and Basque institutions. And we have come to say that it has full legitimacy, and that it is also its obligation, with the aim of defending the general interest of Spanish citizens. EH Bildu proposes that this Parliament urge the Spanish state to start negotiations as soon as possible in order to facilitate the path towards a consensual process of creating the independent Catalan state in the form of a republic. We have come to demand that the Spanish Government prevent this process and therefore safeguard the rights and freedoms of all Spanish citizens. EH Bildu proposes that this Parliament set up a committee to monitor the process of democratic disconnection. I insist that this process is deeply undemocratic, and that we will therefore vote against all this nonsense that EH Bildu has proposed to us today, demonstrating, I say, above all his deep ignorance of democratic procedures and of what democracy itself is. For his political career and for certain initiatives that Mr Arraiz has defended in this House, we knew that he needed urgent classes of respect for the most basic human rights. Today, asking for the freedom of a criminal with his t-shirt, he has shown us again. We also knew that he needed urgent classes of democracy. Today Mr Arraiz has confirmed this with his initiative and his intervention. Lincoln has already said: "Better to remain silent and suspect of your folly than to speak and remove all doubt from them." Today Mr Arraiz has shown us that he does not know the most basic democratic principles. Something interesting said Mr Arraiz in his first speech, although it sounds strange. Mr Arraiz has come to say that it is time to learn from one another. Well, we for free will give Mr Arraiz some basic lessons of what democracy is. Without law there is no democracy (Legerik gabe ez dago demokraziarik). Law and law enforcement are the basis of coexistence among fellow citizens. We all know this, or we should know. Mr. Arraiz doesn't know you. Anyway, listen, take note, and learn what democracy is. The Government of Catalonia must comply with the law, and the Government of Spain must comply with the law, and enforce the law and the Spanish Constitution also in Catalonia. By bypassing the current legality that has been carried out in Catalonia by the crazy nationalist leaders is a coup d'état, and before that coup d'état the Spanish Government must restore democracy in Catalonia through all the legal procedures, through all the legal instruments that it has in its hand, including the application of article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, which, by the way, does not aim at suspending Catalan autonomy in this case, but at restoring the rights of Catalans violated by their own mad leaders. The right to decide (take note, Mr Arraiz, take note of all the deputies of EH Bildu, take note also of the parliamentarians of the Basque Nationalist Party) already exists and is exercised in Spain. It is up to all Spanish citizens, who can and must and have the right to decide on matters that affect and concern us. Thus, the territorial model of the State, or the future of the country, or the possible reform and content of the reform of the Spanish Constitution itself, we must decide among all Spanish citizens. That is therefore the right to decide that it already exists and that it assists us. What the nationalists (Catalan nationalists, Basque nationalists, PNV and EH Bildu), what the nationalists claim is just the opposite: what they claim is to deprive a part of the citizen of their right to decide. The Catalan Parliament cannot force us to take its decisions as inescapable and compulsory, because they are not, nor can it take decisions that are not its responsibility, because they are not within its competence. This, in short, is not UPyD's opinion; they are simple basic concepts on which the democratic system is based. It would be interesting if Mr Arraiz took good note of this, rather than listening to Mr Lehendakari by telephone at the moment. It would be interesting for you to listen to these concepts, because democracy is based on these concepts, and when you don't know these concepts you are outside of democracy. But, finally, we will insist on some other concepts, also so that Mr Lehendakari listens to them if he wishes carefully, because this is a political debate and it is interesting to hear us, and also to listen to him who thinks differently. Citizenship cannot be divided, sovereignty belongs to all Spanish citizens. The right to self-determination does not exist in any democratic constitution in the world, except as I have explained before, i.e. the right of citizens to participate in decisions affecting them. Under no circumstances can a part of the citizenry decide on the territorial organization of the State, or on any other aspect or precept of the Spanish Constitution, excluding the rest of that eventual decision. And that's what the crazy nationalist leaders claim, which, by the way, we're checking out how in the last few weeks they're making an absolutely horrific ridiculous. No authority or public authority has the right to deprive all or part of the citizens residing in its territory of the rights and freedoms which the Spanish Constitution recognizes and guarantees to each and every Spanish citizen. Finally, in a social and democratic state and under the rule of law, no one is above the law, and he cannot afford to cut the body of citizenship or redefine the subject of national sovereignty, which is nothing other than the whole of the Spanish citizens, who alone can exercise, by the legally established channels, the right to decide on the unity of the country and the rights of the whole of the citizens. As I say, these are not opinions of a political party, these are not opinions of UPyD; these are simple basic concepts on which any democratic system, and in particular our democratic system, is based. Some will come to say – we will certainly listen to Mr Egibar – that there is a political problem in Catalonia that needs to be resolved. One, no: in Catalonia there are many political and social problems that need to be solved. Among them, political corruption, complicit silence and political inaction in the face of political corruption in Catalonia, 3% and illegal commissions, unemployment, precarious employment, increased poverty, increased inequality, evictions, social cuts, split society and faced as a result of nationalist deviations, or the existence in Catalonia of public media that have been at the service of the Catalan nationalist government for decades. These are the problems that need to be solved, indeed, in Catalonia, and that the mad Catalan leaders have been unable to solve in recent times. They do not solve one of the essential problems faced by citizens on foot in Catalonia, and what they do is add new problems, break society in two, face citizenship. That's the baggage of nationalism in Catalonia. So these are really the political problems that exist in Catalonia and that need to be resolved. Finally, the Government of Catalonia intends to break the country with a representation in the Parliament of Catalonia that would not even serve to amend the Statute of Catalonia. His proposal is not only deeply undemocratic and clearly illegal, but absurd in the globalised world in which we live today and in the Europe of citizens we want to build. In any case, the most important thing today is to enforce and enforce the law in Catalonia. And, therefore, the question that needs to be resolved here today, and which must also be answered by the Lehendakari and each of the members of Parliament of the Basque Nationalist Party – because then something will be voted on – is whether the Basque Nationalist Party actually agrees that the law is being enforced anywhere in the country or not. In short, if the Basque Nationalist Party today will also support the coups in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u7	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u8	Thank you, President. Well, from a time to this part EH Bildu seems committed to turning the Basque Parliament into a kind of branch of the Parliament of Catalonia, and probably this dynamic is explained only by lack of imagination and own initiative to raise issues that really interest Basque citizens, or because the proposing group puts its particular obsessions – legitimate, but particular – before the problems that really affect Basques. Or perhaps because you may think that in this way you put the government party in a hurry, questioning the solidity of your abertzale convictions and inciting them to do here independenceist guranquism, such as Mr Mas. But my impression, Mr Arraiz, let me tell you, is that with initiatives like this they only get the first thing: to portray themselves in their monotheme and to show that they lack a real country project to manage the issues demanded by political citizenship. And it does not seem to us socialists that with such motions they can put the Basque Nationalist Party in serious trouble. Seeing the faces of their representatives here, and that of the lehendakari, I don't think they're overly worried after listening to him. On the contrary, I think you're doing them a favor. Because only someone very packed with ideology like you can think that what is happening with the secessionist process in Catalonia led by President Mas and Junts pel Yes and protected by the CUP is something that can be attractive to the majority of Basque society. I understand that you are very motivated by this wave of stellated flags and inflamed proclamations for the immediate disconnection of Catalonia, as if it were a switch that turns off the light, and the construction in the air of a Catalan republic – and I say well, in the air – where all problems miraculously disappear and happiness reigns, which is what the Catalan independenceists come to sell and yourself in this rostrum. Because I wanted to ask you: Do you really believe that what is happening in Catalonia is something that is attractive to most Basques, an example that we have to follow here in Euskadi, given the absolute disaster that Catalonia has become? For, gentlemen of Bildu – it is no surprise to you – do not expect the Socialist Party to accompany you at least in this kind of rush of social rupture and absolute disgovernment. The position of the Socialists on the labyrinth in which Catalonia has been involved is well known, and is summarized in the amendment we are proposing. It contains a principle that is of common sense: the need for all institutions (also the Government of Catalonia and its Parliament) to be guided in their actions by criteria of respect for the law in force, we share it more or less, because this is the only way to guarantee the legal security of all their acts in a democratic state, unless you are playing something else, not precisely legal or social security, but governance. Whether you like it or not, we are in a democratic state, with its flaws, with its virtues, with its aches as well, but not very different from those of the rest of the countries of the European Union. And I remind you, Mr Arraiz, that this Constitutional Court which you reproach for the annulment of the declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on 9 November is the same court that gave Bildu amparo and allowed him to run for office in the 2011 elections. And the same one that, months later, legalized Sortu as a political party. The same Constitutional Court. And do not try to counter, therefore, legality with legitimacy, because in a democratic state the legitimate is what is within the law. This is not a state that is not (that is not democratic); therefore, that is a basic principle. And no one denies that the Catalan parliamentarians who adopted this declaration are the absolute majority of the Catalan Parliament. Of course. What has been challenged is that they have the capacity to initiate a process of secession from Catalonia unilaterally and apart from any legal procedure. Because those same parliamentarians and that same Parliament – I remind you, Mr Arraiz – need a two-thirds majority to approve a reform of the Statute of Catalonia. With much less support, it seems unthinkable that a process of unilateral secession can be initiated, which achieves one thing (it has done so): facing half of Catalan society with the other half. And that's not exactly how a nation is built. And I will quote here something I have quoted on many occasions, when we have talked about these recurring issues. A phrase from the Galician writer Suso de Toro speaking of the nations: The nation – the one you defend or any other – "is an agora agreed," and if there is no covenant there is no nation. And what is being done in Catalonia is not precisely to seek the pact, but to seek the internal rupture within Catalonia. And they lack the legitimacy to do what they are doing, in the same way as this Parliament, even if we all did it together, we could not declare Euskadi's entry into the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of America, could we? Even if we all did so unanimously, the 75 parliamentarians, invoking that hyper-democratic right to decide that you do not fall out of your mouths. What we can do from this House, and that is what we propose in our amendment, is to urge the governments of Spain and Catalonia to open up ways of standard dialogue to try to solve the problems that really arise in that community and channel their differences through institutional channels. And we already know that it is not easy, that it is not the best time, when we have two governments in office. In the case of Catalonia, two months after the autonomous elections, it is not yet known whether a government is going to be formed, whether the CUP is going to bend to the demands, whether it is going to break the CUP due to those demands, or whether we are going to have new autonomous elections in Catalonia. And look at the tremendous contradiction they are encountering: the independence parties quickly formed the new parliament to decide by majority something about what they have no capacity to decide, something as serious as creating an independent state in the air because yes, and yet those same groups are unable to agree on what they have full capacity to decide, who will preside over the Government of Catalonia. Bad limbs to start any adventure. They must be the mysteries of that mysterious right to decide, that kind of conjure that some invoke to decide one thing, once and for all, but, yes, disregarding the legal procedures, transparency and equal opportunity in the public debate that is obviously not taking place in Catalonia. And finally, because we like to be constructive, we propose in our amendment to urge the members of the Catalan Parliament to lead the demand of Catalan society to strengthen its self-government by means of a proposal that follows the established channels, without disparate democratic legality or leaps in the void. And it's not an invitation in the air. Socialists have a concrete and viable offer, probably the only one that exists at this time in Spain as a whole, to channel and solve the problems arising in the development of the State of Autonomy, and it is called reform of the Constitution. A reform that we have defined to shield social rights, to regenerate the functioning of institutions, and also to respond to the issues we are talking about. And how? For the way in which they have been responded to in the most successful countries in the world concert, those with a federal structure: properly recognizing the plurality of the state (we have no problem in recognizing Spain as a nation of nations), solving the skills and funding problems detected so far, and creating the precise channels for the autonomous communities to participate in common governance. And, of course, since we are not going to help Catalonia, it is with initiatives like the one you are proposing today, with that kind of shambles to set up in this House a follow-up committee on the disconnection process. Because in addition, you can have more of the patriotic sophasia of Catalonia than knowing that you are going to want to make a government, your comrades of the CUP, with the bourgeois lords of Catalonia involved in corruption. And it looks like that's in the background. The important thing is to break the constitutional framework. For what? We do not know, but we break it, as if that fact turned Catalan society into the paradigm of universal happiness and social rights. And you know that's not going to be, and it's not going to be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u10	Good morning, everyone. At the moment when the Basque Country was introduced to the motion of the meeting, our team presented an entire amendment. The debate about Catalonia is not the first, it will not be the end of the legislature, for directly every one of us is following in his case, of course, the relationship between Katalunia and Spain. I mean, when there is no relation, and at least there is no motive or axis of our correction. We acknowledge in this correction which is expressed by us, and know the political process which is being committed in Katalunia. And this trial hasn't started in the final elections, it's coming from a distance at least eight or ten. What finally began with the change of a state has reached the point that has reached, and with all its freedom a legislature has decided to start a political process. And what we see here is a break. There was a pause, and not because the Parliament of Catalonia or President Artur Mas has not tried, but his interview, because all these demands have been denied. It may happen, as is the case, that there is no one on the other side of the Parliament of Catalonia, and a certain answer from the State, or from a reform of the Constitutional Court, or because it is all forbidden. And to face this reality, I think we must, as far as possible, look at what lies around us and what can be learned. And in the Autogobernun, the rest of the party brought by EH Biltek, the band of the rôn, which came from Quebec, and other people, have mentioned the subject of Quebec on that board. And I think there are some lessons there. If there is some advanced management that can even imply some kind of political jurisprudence on how to solve problems and conflicts that are taking place in our world, the experience of Quebec and Canada certainly points to a number of lessons, in the idea of marking the prevalence of democracy, both in its depth and in its extent. And they constantly wonder how to reconcile what the principle of legality can be with the democratic principle: the democratic principle and the principle of legality, how these two sources of legitimacy can act in symbiosis. And I believe that we have had on the part of our fellow Members, and I believe that in this House too, sufficient debates to conclude that we need to negotiate, that we need to dialogue and that we need to negotiate. But, of course, legality cannot be an obstacle, it cannot be a prohibition, but a guarantee of the realization of that which a society can freely and democratically or mostly determine. And it is in the configuration of the subjects or not; whether the Catalan people constitute a political subject, yes or no. Because then apply the procedure to say "No, no, we're going to decide all the Spaniards", is to run away, run away from the problem, conquer it, turn it into conflict. That must be resolved by democratic means, and of course the prevailing value of what Catalan citizens, or Basques, can freely and democratically decide, hence an obligation must arise, a political obligation to negotiate. And that is what the Catalan Parliament is constantly trying to do. Therefore, of that – let's say – triple idea of popular will on the one hand, legality, and thirdly political initiatives, the legitimacy of these political initiatives is what needs a solution. And politics is responsible for harmonizing that, it has to be responsible for harmonizing what can be a popular will, a public opinion, the principle of legality, and also the legitimacy of political initiatives. So, who harmonizes, when we see that the state sits in the trench of legality, says "That's not possible, that doesn't exist, because it doesn't appear in the Constitution"...? What do you mean...? I mean, is there only what appears in the Constitution? There are so many things that exist and that are not in the Constitution! Certain laws that regulate relations between people... Until recently, there were no such laws. And there were no problems? Yeah. I mean, the law has to take care of that will. For that is the challenge of politics, that is the challenge of politics. Hence it is in our correction that this democratic principle must suppose that it is an engine in political causes. And in a consultation asked directly, or in a referendum, the people become judges, the people, and their votes, that it must be their own decision to maintain what is really to be a reference to them. And what politics ought to do is to give this expression. I believe that in advanced countries they have begun to employ such means. If Spain wants to continue in its course, it will remain there, and we will stay there with the conflict. Progress and one-sided strategy. I don't think Catalonia has decided on its own: "Hey, we're going to design a one-sided strategy here, and we're moving forward." No, he didn't have a chance to do it. No one's been put on the other side of the table, they didn't want to negotiate. Then what is the democratic measure which must be applied to a one-sided strategy? Negotiate. If he comes to a one-sided strategy, if Catalonia works that way, you must offer him a negotiation. There's no other way. And the negotiation doesn't allow us to operate on one-sided strategies. It works in two directions: and, on the other hand, you can't deny it by saying "it's not in the law." You have to negotiate, you have to talk. It has been mentioned here that some parliamentary writers will proceed from what order they shall proceed, or in the succession of the laws. In 1990, when the proclamation of the right of self-determination was made in this parliament, the Jelt Party voted for it. Consequently, the attempt to change the constitution of Spain, and its alterations were made.... If anyone's efforts were made to penetrate the rights of self-determination into that Spanish constitution, he was the Jelt member of the Eunus in August 2011. Of course we picked up the wrong round one. At the same time, in the year 2004 of this legislature, a certain exercise of the right of deciding was made in favour of the Jest Party. Even in the year-relevation law. I'm not going in to tell you what the others did about it, we all know too much. What I'm trying to say is that the Jestric Party of the Euric wants to be independent, completely superfluous for this country. and this nation has been deprived of its opportunity for the last decades of making its progress. Then let each one consider what his strategy was. And if we must make effective steps in the future, see in what direction our fellow-men are. And the strategics must be clean. Let's not rush into these issues when we've had the strategies that suppose the delay of three or four decades. And above all, in order to begin the new roads, the old roads must be first closed, so as to have a minimum of confidence in each other. That's the opinion of the Jeltzaan Party. That's why, in front of the Katalunia trial, our full respect and our reconnaissance to Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u11	Finish up, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u12	I'm sorry. I'll finish it right now. We make an alteration, both the authorities and the Spanish authorities, of the institution of Catalonia, in order to set up a negotiation process. Because that's the way. Not one-sidedness, not one-sidedness to deny one another. It's a negotiation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing round the teams that have no corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u14	Good morning, everyone. President Señor, good morning. I must confess to you that it is necessary to respect this House very much, to respect this institution very much, to respect this Parliament very much, to come and discuss with serenity and to enter into the rag of this debate that is constantly being reproduced. We go back to the Basque noria, that no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-going no-no-going no-no-going no-no-going no-no-no-going no-go-no-no-go-no-no-go-no-no-no-go-no-no-no-go-no-no-go-no-no-no-go-no-no-no-no-go-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no- That what is happening in Catalonia, in any case, has one's political position on its merits, is a spurt. And this is increasingly shared in Catalonia itself, people who could even be in favour of an independence process, who could even be in favour of holding a referendum, but who are not in favour of this drift towards the nothingness in which Catalonia has been plunged, and with it to the citizens of Catalonia. But the reality, the stubborn reality, is that we have to re-debate in this House fundamentally together in two positions today, in two clear positions, which are concrete in what we are manifesting in this rostrum, but which are also concrete in what we put black on white in the documents we have presented. And in this way we have two clearly differentiated positions. On the one hand, those who want this Parliament to recognise and respect the political process initiated in the Parliament of Catalonia (the Basque Nationalist Party, you, the parliamentary group that supports you, Mr Lehendakari, want us to recognize and respect what is happening in Catalonia), and on the other hand, those who recognise and respect the democratic agreement – and "democratic agreement" in quotes, of course – initiated by the Parliament of Catalonia (and this initiative is that of Bildu). That's a block that looks good on what's going on in Catalonia and they want us to respect it today and support it (Vasco and Bildu Nationalist Party). And those of us who believe, the rest of the formations of this House, represented in this House, which is a spur. The first thing I am going to say is probably the most important thing of all, but I think we must start here: what is happening in Catalonia is not worthy of recognition or respect; what is happening in Catalonia, what is happening in Catalonia by irresponsible politicians, is worthy of rejection and, of course, political confrontation. Nationalist politicians in Catalonia, on their way nowhere, have plunged their autonomous community into an instability of uncertain course. The confusion and social tension that they have caused; the abandonment of any vocation of government, because they can only dedicate themselves to their particular and partisan power games, as we are seeing these last days; the consequent abandonment of citizens, among which there is a growing concern when checking the marketing (the marketing) in which the election of a president has become, cannot be celebrated, and cannot and should not be recognized. In Catalonia, nationalists do not understand politics as the representation of all citizens. They understand politics as the representation of a part of the citizens. And since the last autonomous elections we know that they only care about 48% of Catalans. In Catalonia they have political leaders who put forward a supposed right to break living together, a country and its economic stability at all costs, whatever the price. In Catalonia, political leaders are not only nefarious politicians, but also call for breaking the frameworks of coexistence, leading and driving lawlessness, and, if that is not enough, blaming others for their misdemeanours and disasters. And that cannot be celebrated or recognized, Mr Egibar. In Catalonia, Convergence (or as it will be called from now on), Esquerra Republicana and CUP are damaging Catalonia's progress and investment in Catalonia, and are causing a major and worrying impairment in the Catalan economy. The absence in Catalonia of a stable and sensible government, the unilateral journey towards the precipice of non-compliance with the rules of coexistence, is not worthy of celebration or recognition, nor of any kind of political respect. Today, on the other hand, we deserve our censure and the strongest political rejection, independently, I insist, of the positions that one and the other can maintain on the substance of the question that arises. But what is happening in Catalonia is not worthy of respect nor is it an upbuilding message, nor is it an upbuilding image of politics and politicians. And I know this thing I'm going to say now doesn't matter at all. It does not matter to the gentlemen of Bildu or probably to a large part of the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party, but, although it sometimes seems that we are in classes of constitutional law and in classes of pre-political law, if this exists, what is a reality is that the rule of law was a conquest of citizens, a conquest of citizens to guarantee their freedoms and rights vis-à-vis their rulers (also vis-à-vis their rulers), and also to ensure participation in public affairs. Because the rule of law enshrines that no one, no one, nor the rulers are above the law. And in the face of this fundamental principle of the most basic Western law, in the face of this, the Parliament of Catalonia has adopted a radically unconstitutional resolution, which is imposed unilaterally and which disregards any respect for the principles which, of course, inform the Spanish Constitution (but I already know that they care little), but which is imposed and which seeks to dispense with the basic principles of the democratic system, with absolute disregard for the rule of law. And with absolute contempt to the citizens of Catalonia, who in the last autonomous elections voted mostly so that this would not happen. Most of them voted that this is happening in Catalonia should not happen. And those who lead this process today have turned their backs on most Catalans. Those who have begun this process today turn their backs on most Catalans. And the first thing you should do, for a minimum of rigor, is not to speak of Catalonia as a whole, not to speak of Euskadi as a whole, and not to arrogate the representation of any people. Because it's starting to bother..., it's been bothering you for a long time, but the trouble persists when you speak and patrimonyize the Basque people or the Catalan people, or when you use Euskadi and Catalonia as a whole patrimony. And it's not like that. Although it hurts them, and it probably hurts them a lot, both Euskadi and Catalonia cannot be expressed or defined with a phrase, nor can all citizens be brought together on one side. I insist, in Catalonia the majority of voters rejected in the last autonomous elections that this is happening now. But surprisingly – and not surprisingly Bildu's position – the Basque Nationalist Party today in this House is asking us to support this, through its amendment to the whole. And it is something that surprises and worries, because, I insist, it is not worthy of political respect, it is not worthy of support or celebration what is happening today. And they also claim that the others join this drift. We believe, Mr Egibar, Mr Lehendakari, that what is happening in Catalonia is not the way. It is probably the way to a precipice, it is the way to disconcerting, to instability, to blockade, to shock, it is probably that road that they have taken in Catalonia take there, but it is not the way, of course, to any positive place. These gentlemen are interested in that path. They say it, they recognize it, and they put the cards up. They're interested in confrontation, shock, anger. It's a comfortable space, it's your comfort space. But you? Are you really going to approve your own amendment to the whole of it, Mr Egibar? Do you really believe that we must recognize what is happening in Catalonia? That's how we move forward, but backwards. We return to the national construction to mask the social construction. We go back to the territories and we open people up, unemployment, the problems of young people, families, citizens, the immense problems that exist in Catalonia and on which no one is speaking today. In Catalonia there is not a government, there is an absolute disgovernment, with a vocation of permanence in the disgovernment. Because they are now in trill games, because they have now created a situation in which they are seeing what one says and what the other does, to see if it supports me or the other. It is a market in what Catalan politics has become. It is neither a message nor an upbuilding example for anyone. Catalonia has worsened in recent years, and that has not been the responsibility of any Jewish-Masonic conspiracy, nor has any outside government or the rest of Spain any responsibility. What happens in Catalonia is the sole and exclusive responsibility of its leaders! Is there much to improve on the whole of Spain? Absolutely. There are many things to change, there are some to perfect and improve? Absolutely. Is this an exciting and necessary debate? Absolutely. But what cannot be, what we cannot accept as an indisputable truth, is that political leaders who add to their autonomous communities in the greatest of chaos blame the others, the rest of Spaniards and the rest of political formations, for their own problems, in which they themselves, alone and without anyone pushing them, have been involved. Because this started with an economic, financial claim...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u15	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u16	... and it has derived – and I conclude, Madam President – from the spurt that we are all having the opportunity to see. And I end up deeply regretting when politicians, instead of concord, sow confrontation, when instead of providing solutions to people bring problems, when instead of the future they gloat in the past. And the worst of all is that it is the people, in this case the Catalans, all the Catalans, independentists and not, who are going to pay (and hopefully not a very expensive bill), who are going to pay the misappropriations and irresponsibility of their leaders. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Mr. Erriz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u18	Good morning again. I think, if we must speak clearly, the principal problem of Catalonia is that of the Spanish State. The main problem in Catalonia, Catalans and Catalans, is the Spanish state. It's not an internal problem that they and they have. Their problem is called the Spanish State. It is not even called Spain, it is called the Spanish State, how democracy is understood by the Spanish State. What is happening in Catalonia arose from the daily needs of Catalan citizens, not from identity issues, but from problems and needs on a daily basis, and how the Spanish State has suffocated, aggrieved and insulted Catalans on a daily basis, giving no satisfactory response to their needs and, on the contrary, creating new problems. That is why many Catalans and Catalans who have never been Catalanists, who have never been abertzales, are today independentists. They feel Spanish, they are of Spanish culture, but they feel independent. They want a Catalan state where things can be done in a different way, we don't know if better or worse, but at least sure it is different. You speak of legality and legitimacy, and you do not understand that these confront. In the Spanish state it is a daily thing: laws go on the one hand, and many times rights go on the other. And we and we stand in favour of rights, over and above what some laws say that are obviously unfair, that are objectively unfair, especially those that talk about democratic rights, basic rights, civil and political rights of Basques and Basques. Those who have been to Catalonia in recent times will have realized that there is little internal rupture. Not much. The level of political dialogue is much higher today than we have right here, and really coexistence is not much less fractured in Catalonia, much less. And everyone knows that the problem, whether on one side or another in that debate, is with the Spanish State and with the attitude of the Spanish State. When we talk about the form of government and what is costing them, then we could talk about what it cost to form the Government of Andalusia to Susana Díaz, who cost a lot more, and it seems that for other issues. And when you speak of the nation of nations you have to say it in a clear way: we and we are not Spanish, nor do we want to be Spanish. We don't even want to be. And we want them to give us the opportunity to decide and to live according to it. And if you want to remain Spanish you have every right to do so and we and we will allow it, respect and guarantee, even if you live in an independent Basque state. That is our word and that is our decision. And that's what makes you different from us. Speaking of when you were talking about who ties up with the bourgeois and who does not, I would like to recall the budgets that you have just approved, those bourgeois budgets, with a correction factor, that is, 0.32%. There it is, there is the social factor that you print out to those budgets and to that alliance that you have today with a party, when you criticize those who are coalitions with Convergence. And finally, also tell them that they have no problem, have no concern whatsoever, that, without having more information than you, we have all the confidence and confidence that in Catalonia the political forces in favour of political change, in favour of independence, will have the talent, the ingenuity and the creativity necessary to create a government that will lead to the last place, to the last port, this process in favour of independence. And finally, about the past and the future, whether the old roads are closed or not. We believe that the old roads are closed. And it is the way of the eupscal, that is to say, the new way. We invite ourselves on this new path to be able to work together. Logically, we won't agree with the past, and we probably won't agree for a long time, but that can't stop the future. That's the request we make. We also plan with it that negotiations and differences are understood only to remain within the Spanish State. We understand that Katalunia demands that we negotiate and facilitate the way we leave. And that's what we want, too. Not to stay inside. And it seems to me, if we are to be positive, that he who has the first point and ours are sufficiently similar, or that the content is quite similar. Maybe it's a small deal, but we agree that it's the quintessence, in the end, whether Catalonia is a decision or not. We think we do, so do you. Perhaps small, perhaps weak, but there may be a medium in front of you to begin the journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u20	Yes, thank you, President. There was some spokesman who was thinking up, asking himself whether or not these kinds of debates are a waste of time. I believe that this kind of debate can be used to try to do democratic pedagogy. And I think all the debates are interesting. We already know that the nationalists are involved in their paranoia and that Mr Arraiz in his turn of reply never responds to the rest of the groups, and he does not even take notes while we intervene, because we already know (or already knows) what he is going to say exactly. But I think it is interesting that certain things are said in this Parliament and that we take advantage of our interventions to dismantle the lies of nationalism and to defend certain principles which are deeply democratic, which are not of a specific political party, but which are the very basis of democracy. And that is what I did in my first speech, beyond Mr Arariz having done as if he had heard nothing and refused to answer anything that a servant has said, as he usually does. But I think it is interesting to point out that the law has to be enforced; to point out that the law can be changed, of course, but through established legal procedures and through the majorities necessary to do so; and that what is happening in Catalonia is of extraordinary gravity. And it is certainly regrettable that today the lehendakari will support what is happening in Catalonia. This is the most serious part of today's debate: that the lehendakari, which is the lehendakari of all Basques, will supposedly say that he agrees with the Catalan scepter, will vote in favour of this coup d'état produced in Catalonia. Because here the lehendakari say that he advocates for other ways, advocates for other procedures, does not finish presenting his concrete proposal, but applauds the sluggishness and shame that is taking place in Catalonia. And I am certainly ashamed to have a lehendakari who supports what is happening in Catalonia, which is basically the violation of the current legality and the breakdown of Catalan society itself. A government in Catalonia that does not solve one of the fundamental problems of Catalans, and that, in addition, what it does is add new problems and break down society itself, surely fleeing from the political corruption that stalks it. And that you, Mr Lehendakari, will vote in favour of this process is of extraordinary gravity. He came to say again Egibar that in Catalonia there is a political problem, and that the current legality and the law cannot be an impediment to the progress of the citizens' will. But we must take into account what that will is, whether it is a majority or not, and whether it really responds to what a majority demands, in this case of Spanish citizens, to push forward the reforms that the leaders of Catalonia want. And I want to tell you, Mr Egibar, that the Spanish Constitution can indeed be reformed. It's no trench in a democratic state. The law can't be a trench. The law can be changed. But it has to be changed through established legal procedures. I don't think this is very difficult to understand. We too want to change the Spanish Constitution. There are other political parties that also want to change the Spanish Constitution. Each has its proposals, perfectly legitimate and democratic. What needs to be achieved is a majority in the Congress of Deputies to move forward and bring about these changes. But that's not what's happening in Catalonia. What is happening in Catalonia is something else. It is an anti-democratic process, it is a coup d'état, and it is certainly sad, Mr Lehendakari, that you support all this. I think this debate is also interesting to tell the Spanish Government what we think it should do. The first thing to say to the Spanish Government is that it has to comply with and enforce the Spanish law and Constitution in Catalonia. The next thing we have to say to the Government of Spain is that it implements, initiates the criminal route against certain leaders in Catalonia, for the commission of flagrant crimes, perfectly defined in the Penal Code. The third thing the Spanish Government should do is to apply Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, in order to defend the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia themselves. And the next and last thing we have to say to the Government of Spain is to stop financing independence in Catalonia; that is, not to allow the funds transferred by the Government of Spain to the leaders of Catalonia to be dedicated to financing independence, something that has been happening in recent years and that has been constantly denounced by UPyD. The problem in Spain is the peripheral nationalisms that want to break the country and that want to break the coexistence. But they are also responsible in all this for the great national political parties (the Spanish People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party), which have been constantly yielding to the blackmail of the nationalists. And it's a good time to remind you, too. To remind the PP and the PSOE to stop giving reason and give in to nationalistic deviations. Let them face their lies clearly. To defend the unity of the country and to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u21	Please finish, Mr. Maniro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u22	... the rights and freedoms of all citizens. This is what I think needs to be said in a debate like today, and I hope that it has not actually become a waste of time, even though I know that effectively nationalists on one side and on the other side are still in their nostrils, turning around the same thing, and defending the same old lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr Arraiz, you have your fault that you come out here and accuse the socialists that for 35 million we have agreed the budgets. I would like to remind you that you here, in this very rostrum, offered the Basque Government free of charge to support the budgets if they started the path to independence. Free! And that portrays you perfectly, as it portrays the Catalan independenceists. The homelands above ideologies, the flags above people, that's their scheme. Because you dress in progressive clothes, but in the end you end up being old believers, who want us to make others believe that with a Basque state, or a Catalan state, we would be in the realm of happiness. There would no longer be any social, economic, labour or management problems. It would all work out. And you know that that is false, because the one who started the cuts in Spain first was Mr. Mas; the one who charged fees for heating food in microwaves in public schools was Mr. Mas; the one who charged fees for sleeping in a public hospital with a patient was Mr. Mas; the one who applied the cuts in social rights was Mr. Mas. And that same Mr Mas, to whom his colleagues will end up voting, because the homeland is more important than people, is going to be the one who can boast of riding that Catalan republic in the air. And that, honestly, is cheating on the citizenry. That's not a secular left, as you do. That is from old believers in the old school, from renegade Christians, which is ultimately the position you exercise in this country, because you are not coherent. Because you will not want to convince me that a Basque state set up tomorrow, or within a year, solves the problems of Basque citizens. That's not true. Do not pretend to make citizens commulgate with mill wheels, nor in Catalonia either. Or do you think the Catalan citizens...? When you go to Catalonia, I think you only talk to some Catalan citizens. I have a lot of family in Catalonia, on one side and on the other, and they are having serious problems of coexistence, because they feel..., some are very euphoric, and the others are between angry, angry and resigned, but that doesn't mean that there are no social fracture problems in Catalonia. Of course there is, of course there is! And of course we need dialogue, and Mr Egibar is right (we also say this in our amendment), we need dialogue, because we continue to argue that the problem that has been created in Catalonia has a culprit, who is called Mr Mas, and has a political leader, who is called Mr Rajoy, who has led to the problem being overcome until he has virtually no solution. But that does not mean that other conclusions will be reached later. I have one thing – with all due respect, Mr Egibar – that I do not understand you very well in what you propose. We already know that the PNV always tends to place itself a little above good and evil, or in the best of the worlds, between Pinto and Valdemoro. He's got us pretty used to it. But it does not seem consistent to us to say that the path that the nationalists are using in Catalonia is supported fraternally, because in the background the objective is shared, to then say that Euskadi and the PNV have their own way and will not go that way, because, even if that is to be presented in this way, that behavior does not seem to me to be neither coherent nor good with Catalan society, which is said to be respected. Because, Mr. Egibar, if I really appreciate someone and he tells me that he wants to commit suicide, I do not tell him that I respect that he takes his life but that I do not follow his example: I try to convince him not to commit suicide and to solve his problems differently, that this is not the best way out. What happens is that, of course, when one wants to get well with everyone (with the electoral clientele, with Mr Mas and also with Bildu) one poses a position, because, that, of equidistance one does not know how, right? And that has its own way you say, don't you? Not because they're smarter or more pragmatic than the Catalans, but because we've been here for a long time with the Ibarretxe Plan and that consultation that you're still defending, and I think you'll have learned something from that situation. Because I want to remind you of what Mr Mas and company said when we were here in this situation, the same as you now say: that you respected the path taken by the Basque Nationalist Party at the time, but that they had their own, that it was different, that it was gradualism, the Catalan sign. See how the twists have changed! Fortunately for us, for the Basques. Because in the background, the question is that, because of the many grievances that they want to get into the grip of nationalism, some justified, of course, and others, of course, very exaggerated, try to solve the problems of the relationship of plural and complex societies, such as this one and such as the Catalan one, only by the way of identity leads to failure, frustration and social fracture.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u25	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u26	Mr. Pastor, do you believe that there are no more people than sorry for not having influenced the spheres of power of the People's Party, people of socialist obedience, of the People's Party itself, that certain actions or negotiations or previous steps, if they had been taken, would have avoided the so-called Catalan conflict, as is now warned? There are people, there are people with political trajectory who have said that the state cannot get to this situation, it must negotiate. You have to negotiate, but on what basis? So, we say, who ask for the effective recognition of the Basque people (effective speech, effective recognition of the Basque people) and the Catalan people as political subjects... We're asking for that recognition. Otherwise, the equation is already made by Gorka Maneiro! He says, "Right to decide? Yes, all Spaniards." And he says, "Reform the Constitution...! You're never gonna have a majority!". Therefore, the procedure must serve, legality must serve to give way to that democratic will. But, of course, you have to admit that there is a political subject; if not, it strikes to say that all the paths are doomed to failure. What is it that even in Loyola's papers we try to braid certain political formations? (And I will not say that peace was priced, because we all consider ourselves democrats.) We were talking about precisely that, how to give way, how to channel, how to make the decisions of Basque citizens effective. And that's what we're saying in the text. By the way, a text, if not identical, similar, was also adopted last year in this House, the first point. I want to read the two points. I do not know whether all the parliamentary groups have the text of the various amendments, but in the first point we say: "Recognize and respect the political and democratic process initiated by the Parliament of Catalonia, as a democratic expression of the majority will of the Catalan people, with the aim of giving effect to the exercise of the right to decide by the citizens of Catalonia to determine their collective political future". It is a recognition from this House to this House too, to this Parliament, of that representation of the popular vote. And the second point, which directly connects with the democratic principle and that political jurisprudence emanating from the Supreme Court of Canada, in reference to the conflict with Quebec, which says that "the application of the most basic democratic principle implies that the institutions of Catalonia and the Spanish State will understand themselves committed to ensuring a negotiation process"..., but not any negotiation process, and it is not a nuance: "a negotiation process that will enable the democratic will of Catalan society to materialize by mutual agreement". Those are the advanced conflict resolution formulas that are being applied in the world! Why can't we also look at and learn from those same formulas or experiences? And last, old roads and new roads. I have a question in mind. And I know that each one has his needs, and his subsidies, but it's logical to you after so many decades, that old strategy is still in love with him, but he's going to close up now, suddenly, after so many years of independence on one side, to set a march on the path of political, patriotic march, left-to-left patriots? Is there any agency? People don't see any efficiency. You always seem to have the truth. First, to do some strategies, to get rid of this town, and we don't believe in sudden deliverances. And now all of a sudden weapons disappear and he says: "Now, in search of independence, we have to start here in two months." People don't believe it. And the way must be suitable for us not to lose it, even for companions. But a little tranquillity will be required to determine some things, and to determine what way it is, and what are the companions. That unilaterality and the commitment to an independentist project do not become a fetish. It's not a stain remover. Not that the paths are defined, we all know them! And don't let it be an exercise in escapism! Do you not feel questioned, from the perspective even abertzale, after so many decades not of disagreements, but of strategic shock, do you not feel questioned to understand with someone, it seems that today the twenty-seven of this bench, to agree some basic minimums on the existence of the political subject, his right to decide, gradualism or not? Don't you feel challenged? We do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u28	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. In relation to Mr. Pastor... Because sometimes we make appeals all (here no one is free from this), appeals to dialogue, and I can assure you that, come on, I defend dialogue as one of the fundamental tools of progress and understanding, but not as an end in itself, not as an escapism maneuver or as a smoke bomb to cover up another series of things. Dialogue is important, it would miss more! And, of course, I understand that we are at a pre-election moment, Mr Pastor, and that you have to hand over responsibilities to one side and another, and it blames and almost puts Mr Mas and Mr Rajoy on the same level of responsibility; President of the Government, by the way, who has never denied the possibility of dialogue, who has never refused to dialogue. What he has said is that he refuses to be a necessary collaborator of non-compliance with the law. It seems reasonable that a president of the government is supposed to do that, and it also seems reasonable that a president of the government – and we certainly agree on that, Mr. Pastor – cannot do anything else except say that he is willing to talk about everything, unless he fails to comply with the law, to break the Constitution, and also to do so because he is pressured and coerced. Because if something has also happened on the part of the political leaders in Catalonia, it has been an advantageous use and a torturing use of an extremely complicated moment, as has been the one of the economic crisis that we have suffered and that to a large extent we also continue to suffer. A wind-up and twisting use that came to say "Spain steals from us". How can one dialogue...? It is truly difficult to dialogue with those who are constantly insulting to achieve a political goal. "Spain robs us", at a time of economic crisis when there were many families throughout Spain, and especially in Catalonia, who were having a bad time. They were apparently stealing, with 3%, CiU and the Pujol; we do know that they have stolen. The productive Catalonia in front of Spain subsidized... These are messages that have been launched in recent years that do not seem, Mr Pastor, to help, to facilitate or to invite, in any case, a calm and reasonable dialogue. Mr. Egibar said what they're asking for is... "We call for recognition as a political subject of the Basque people." Mr Egibar, that is already recognized in a fundamental document that I invite you to release, which is the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, which recognizes the political subject of this Autonomous Community. As a political subject, and I have told you on many occasions, as is a political subject Gipuzkoa, as is a political subject San Sebastián, as is Vitoria, as is Murcia, as is Albacete... Each is a political subject that has its scope, its capacity, its framework of political action protected by law and recognized by law. Euskadi has never had – and I must remind you again – a capacity for self-government equal to that granted to him by the Statute of Autonomy. Euskadi for the first time has been a political subject thanks to the Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. And this is something that you permanently refuse to recognize, but do not worry, that, although it is sometimes boring, Mr. Maneiro, because you understand that you have strength and desire, but you are much more interested in other more upbuilding debates for citizens (by the way, debates that I think are for those who actually pay us citizens, which is to solve their problems, and not to talk permanently about our own or the obsessions of the different political parties), we will remember, insist and keep on remembering it. Mr Egibar also spoke of the need for respect and recognition for the majority expression of the Catalan people. It is exactly the opposite of what Mr Mas is doing and what the nationalist forces are doing. Look, the last autonomous elections in Catalonia were raised by the independenceists as a plebiscite. This is something we all agree on, isn't it? They were raised as a plebiscite. And they called the citizens and presented themselves to the elections without an electoral program, with a single point in the electoral program, which was Catalonia's independence. And the campaign was also focused on that plebiscite approach. 48% of Catalans (48% of Catalans) gave them the reason, backed them in the polls. 52% said no, because they opted for other political formations. Those who have had less electoral support in Catalonia (those who have had less electoral support in Catalonia, Mr Egibar) are putting all Catalans in this drift. Is that the model of the Basque Nationalist Party? Is that what you're willing to do here, with that appeal you've made to these gentlemen to seek a minimum deal with Bildu? I say one thing to you – and I finish now, Madam President – to close this debate, and believe me that I tell you from the very bottom of my convictions: the worst for this society, the worst for Euskadi, would be for you to seek agreement at any price of minimums and maximums to build the future of Euskadi with these gentlemen. The best, the most opportune thing for Euskadi, would be to look for it with everyone, also with the Socialist Party, also with UPyD and also with the People's Party. That quest for understanding and agreement is progress. That quest for understanding with the different is progress for Euskadi. And that, if I may, I believe is the sign of identity of this land, which has always prospered from understanding and agreement, and has never prospered from the confrontation between political formations. Believe me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Since the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Eriz Barbadillo's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 21; contraries, 26; white, 0; Abstations 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u30	So, the original motion was not accepted. Then we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The opposites, 63; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u31	Integer correction of Mistto-UPyD not accepted. Next, we vote for the full order of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 15; contraries, 48; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u32	It's not allowed to be the full run of Basque Socialists. And finally, the eucipators in the whole circle. Dots? Okay. Is that possible? Yeah. We'll vote, then, 1. the point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrary, 26; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u33	So the 1st point is accepted. We'll vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; counters, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u34	As a result, the second point has not been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mouton, Javier Ruiz de Aurelo Cerio, member of the Pogula team, with the voluntary introduction of the millions of employees who are under the fire of the Euskion Society. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ruiz de Aubulo, it's yours to introduce and get rid of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. After a debate with a high political burden, as we had at the first point in this plenary, the previous debate, I am going to raise a very simple question to you today; very simple and very important for about 100,000 citizens of this Autonomous Community who work in the public sector and are practically dependent on the Basque Government. The question is simply – and so it is in a very short and simple way, so that it can elicit the support of all groups the message that we have put in our motion – that the Basque Government immediately... Parliament urges that the Basque Government immediately restore the contributions already agreed, generated and earned by public workers to its voluntary social security plans, which have not been made since 2012. It is a simple question, it is a simple question, which requires only two questions. The first, that there is money, and the second, that there is will to do so. Money, obviously, there is. We are in the process of studying and drafting amendments to the general community budgets for the 2016 financial year, and there are sufficient amounts to be able to allocate the corresponding part to make that income over the next year. In the motion it says to be done immediately. Well, we immediately understand not that they do it before the end of the year. Let's forget the part that could have been contributed in 2015, and let's think directly about the year 2016, to make it easier, to restore that right of workers immediately, from January 2016, or retroactively when it is done, but taking into account the already initial contributions of the first month of the exercise that we are going to start. Then, if we have money, what we need is the political will to do so. The other day (this motion comes as a result of an inquiry last day 13) Mr Erkoreka told me that there was a legal impossibility on the part of the Government to make such contributions. I told him it wasn't true, but, of course, in the time of the interpellation it doesn't give time to argue that reality either. And it is one of the amendments, that of the Basque Nationalist group, that they have tabled today: instead of "we are going to fulfil this obligation", "we are going to urge the government of the nation to lift the legal obstacles it has". There are no legal obstacles to doing so. There are no legal obstacles to doing so, because I recall that when Law 13/2013 of General Budgets for 2014 was negotiated, or which takes the measures of the General Budgets for the financial year 2014, General Budgets of the State, a spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party ran off, beating himself in the chest and saying that they had managed to pull out of the Government of the nation, from the absolute majority (because this seems to have been imposed by the Government; no, it was imposed by the parliamentary majority that exists in the Congress of Deputies), who had obtained permission to re-make contributions to the voluntary social security plans of all community officials. And he put on the medal. With which, if they had negotiated it and they had achieved it, I don't understand why they are now telling us that there are legal obstacles. Legal barriers that don't exist. Yes, it is true that the text that you proposed and that was approved, and that is included in that Law 13/2013 and that later – between 18, 19, 20; it is changing in number – is appearing in all the general budget laws of the following years, including that of 2016, yes, it says that the administrations will be able to make such contributions when they do not increase the salary mass, that is, Chapter I within the general budgets. Good. That Royal Decree-Law 20/2011 of 28 December, which provided for this measure, as well as withdrawing the extra pay of officials for that exercise (December of that year), that same Decree-Law had a number of measures, including this, to effectively thin out Chapter I of all public administrations of the State. Many administrations, many parties, many political groups, many spokesmen criticized these measures, but adopted them, because it was mandatory. In other words, there was savings. On that we do agree: we save money, and we dedicate it to other parties. But then we say it's the government's fault, which has forced us. Yes, but when you open the window and the possibility of restoring it again, then no; there are legal impediments. It's curious. Or fear of a state attorney's appeal. That fear that does not exist on other occasions, when there is really a will to do one thing or to contravene an existing legal provision. It doesn't matter that he says what the state attorney wants, because there's a political intention. In this case, Mr Erkoreka said that he was afraid of an appeal from the state's attorney, and that that is why they had not introduced the measure into the various budget texts that have been approved in this House throughout the legislature. For that royal decree contained another set of measures. There were a number of prohibitions on new recruitment by the public administration. And those measures, those duties that all the public administrations have done, it turns out that the Basque Government has not had to do them. If it's true that he hasn't decreased his salary. There has not been an increase in civil servants' salaries until the forecast we have for 2016 of 1%, but it turns out that it has not decreased. When that article – I believe it is the third of that Royal Decree 20/2011 – says that they cannot be replaced, that the seats of those officials who retire must be amortized, that when the contracts-programme terminate must not be renewed, that the interim officials who have a limited time for their contracts at that time must finish them and must not be re-hired, in the Basque Government that salary mass has not changed. The truth is that, if we look at the number of government officials from 2012 until now, they range from 37.083 (the lowest year) to 37.088. I mean, here, when someone has retired, or when a civil servant has unfortunately died, he has been replaced immediately. The law has been broken. There is no fear of the resources of the State Advocate, there is no concern. But in the meantime, all that money I'm keeping in my pocket, and I dedicate it to my private parties or to the truly political interests we have in the budgets. The measure can be taken. One of two: either you negotiated badly in 2013, when you demanded the Government of Spain to introduce that vest into the State's General Budgets, and what you did was cinnamon, which would be a possibility, or you have no political intention of making those contributions from now on. Mr Erkoreka reminded me that he told me on one occasion, in a committee, talking about this subject, that the Community of the Canary Islands did not do it, that the Community of the Balearic Islands did not do it either, or Castile and León. I repeat to you again: I don't care much about what happens in the Canary Islands; I care about what happens here. And it turns out that within our Basque public administration other entities (the outlaws, the vast majority of the Euskadi municipalities) are making the contributions. Why? Because they can do it, because the law allows them to do it. And I have not seen hundreds of appeals against these municipalities or against the three Basque outlaws by the State Attorney's Office saying, "You can't do this, return, stop making those contributions and request the return of the wrongs." No, no, But it turns out that this ban, apparently, only affects the Basque Government. I sincerely believe that what is not a political will. We have money, we lack political will. The Socialist Party is talking about bringing this matter to the negotiating table. Honestly, I don't understand what to take to the negotiating table. The recognition of a right? The right is won, the right is recognized! What should we negotiate with the workers' representatives when we pay for it? Whenever the government wants. They're gonna say they don't want to charge it? No, no, You know perfectly well you don't. They're going to say that they want to charge it now, and that they'd like to charge the 13, the 14, the 15, the 16... Every year, that money has been saved by the Basque Government. But these statements are not worth it, as they did to us here the other day about the famous 2012 extra pay: "Yes, yes, yes! We demand that you subscribe immediately, and the rest that you subscribe in the 2016 fiscal year." Now that we are dealing with the budgets, I would like to see, in that so-cracked budget agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, whether that subsidy that you made and voted here, the rest of the extra pay in 2016, has been reflected in those budgets. I wish I did. I would love to give you reason and see that you have the truth in your hand: you have voted one thing in Parliament and reflected it in the budgets, and the officials of this autonomous community dependent on the central government, because the rest already have it, will recover both the extra pay, the rest, and contributions to voluntary social security plans. I do not understand what to negotiate with workers' representatives, when the law admits it and when the rest of the Basque administrations are doing it. I believe that the problem is simply one of will, that it is very easy to criticize the cut when the Madrid Government does, it is very simple, and here they all came out on the trumpet. Buf, the one who gets hurt! Cuts that were necessary. We are not going to go into why cuts were necessary, we are not going to talk about the unusual hole that you left in the Administration and why we had to apply those cuts, which have then applied them all enchanted with life. First they make the criticism, then they apply the cut, and then they blame the third outsider. Has the wage bill been lowered in the Autonomous Community, in the General Administration? Is he down? I don't know. That would have to be said by the lehendakari, but the other day he wouldn't come up to answer. He simply says that there are legal clipboards in Madrid. No, there aren't. The law doesn't have any clipboards. And, I insist, when you have ruled and had the political will to do so (see the case of the Bizkaia Provincial Council), you have done so. In the City Hall of Bilbao, they did. In the hundreds of municipalities that you govern throughout the territory of the community, you have done so. There's no legal problem here? When EH Bildu did it in Gipuzkoa, in its municipalities, in all the municipalities that govern in the community, there was no problem. When the Gipuzkoa Foral Chamber did, there was no problem. When the People's Party, in those places where it has ruled, there was no problem either. And the government delegation has not said anything, it has not raised any resources, because it was you who went to Madrid and said, "Put this into the Law of the General Budgets of the State, which allows us to start the EPSV of the officials". But the time has come to make budgets, and it is many millions of euros that have to be devoted to that. Let's not think about what's right from the previous exercises, let's forget that chapter, but let's start thinking about 2016. Do you have the will to do it? They are voting on the motion that I am putting in motion today. Don't you have that will? Dedicate yourself to criticise the cuts, to tell a thousand stories, a thousand milongas, and then, in the General Budgets, approve them and say no to the tens of thousands of officials who are waiting for that right that is theirs to be fulfilled, that we must not negotiate with anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u37	Thank you very much, President. Once again, the Socialists want today to defend the negotiation with the workers' representatives as a nuclear element of the conditions under which their rights are guaranteed, referring today to the resumption of contributions to be made by the Basque Government to voluntary social security schemes. Also today, as I did at the plenary session on 29 October last, on how to return an extraordinary payment that was unjustly withdrawn and that we discussed that day in plenary. The PP comes today, on the eve of the elections, to present himself as a pyromaniac firefighter: he wants others to fix the problems he creates. It is the one who through the royal decree prohibits contributions to social welfare entities, and who today calls for them to be reinstated. Those who have imposed the restrictions as only the PP knows, with an absolute majority that hates the citizens, intend to stand, one month after the elections, as guarantor of their rights. We might call it postureum, but given the damage this government has done to so many collectives, it is simply a sarcasm. Because this additional cut to others generated it, such as the abolition of the December 2012 bonus payment, in addition to reducing the number of days of leave granted to the collective, among other cuts. They did not care to load new cuts on the civil servants' collective, and have also kept their wages frozen over the past four years. I might not have done it, but he decided to do it. That is, it has been a collective, that of the officials, highly punished for the cuts of the Rajoy Government. You may have taken other measures aimed at other groups that were not so punished, but did not. But now, as the elections are on top, despite the fact that the cut-off of this right has generated it, you want to come here and wash your face and demand that the Basque Government resume the payment of the contributions. The truth is that you have banned these contributions from continuing since 2012. They can't show up here today adopting a reaction from young children: I do things, but when the nurse asks for explanations, the child has done nothing, the fault always has another. No, let's be serious. We're not kids, nor are we in a schoolyard. We're adults, and we're in a parliament. And they take responsibility for their actions and cuts. In addition, little has been done to change at the national level the prohibition that makes it necessary to stop making such contributions. The only thing that has changed at the end of 2013 at the time of the adoption of the State's General Budgets is that they accepted only one amendment, in part, of the Basque Nationalist Group in the General Courts, admitting since then that contributions can be made provided that these contributions do not lead to an increase in the wage mass. In the case of the Basque Government, the Councillor for Public Administration and Justice, Mr Erkoreka, pointed out in plenary on 29 December this year that these contributions meant an increase in the wage mass in our autonomous community, since there is no budgetary allocation for that purpose in Chapter I. The problem is that no report has been drawn up showing that this is indeed the case. That is the question raised by my group, as do the trade unions. For this reason it is important to sit down and negotiate with the trade unions, which represent the workers affected by the different cuts of the Rajoy Government, and sit down at the collective bargaining table. Because it is necessary to sit down to resume the contributions of the Basque Government to the social welfare system, and to really know whether the law is being complied with, because they are passing from the payroll, or there is a margin to be able to make such contributions. The vast majority of the administrations affected by the ban have already made such contributions, including municipalities and deputies. The Basque Government has not yet done so. All these administrations had a clear intention of resuming these contributions as soon as possible. Not here. It is true that the Budgets Act makes it conditional on the absence of an increase in the wage mass, but in order to continue to defend that position the Basque Government should demonstrate that this situation is indeed so, and has not done so. That is why my group, the Basque Socialist Group, believe that a report should be drawn up showing that this is indeed the case. And that has not yet been done. And once it's done, it's transferred to social representation. They can't ask us for an act of faith. If they truly intend to resume such voluntary contributions, prepare that report, which is shown whether or not there is actually an increase in the wage mass. On the other hand, the People's Party comes here to demand that the contribution be resumed, but there has been no change in the wording that for the year 2016 contains the Law on General Budgets of the State and which has remained exactly the same since the end of 2013. If they are so interested in the resumption of such contributions, why have they not changed the wording of the ban, as it was drafted after that amendment at the end of 2013? Because if the law exists, it must be enforced. You have had the majority in Madrid to do so, but you have not, and you often come here to demand that these contributions be resumed without changing the existing wording. What an irony! This only proves once again, as demonstrated in the plenary session held in the House on 29 October this year, when a debate was held on the payment of the outstanding amounts owed to the December 2012 overtime officials who are presenting these initiatives exclusively for election purposes, thus winning a few votes from the officials. You want to make the citizens see that you can start paying now, because the situation is better, because you have general elections on you, but you take the officials for fools, and we are not. They have kept their cutbacks for at least four years, four long years, and now come, at the door of the next elections, which are held on December 20, to present initiatives and say that you can already start making those contributions, that you can already start making the payment of the rest of the outstanding extra pay for 2012, and you have also returned the days of leave you took. But in my parliamentary group we strongly believe that the whole situation generated by their cuts (because they are cuts) must be negotiated with the unions, that is, with the representation of the workers affected by them. Because the situation that has been created is of great importance. That is the line that was approved on 29 October regarding the outstanding amounts of the 2012 extra payment, and in this line we want to continue insisting on this plenary. It is vital that these issues be negotiated with the representatives of the workers concerned, because the situation created by both cuts is complex, and their solution can under no circumstances be imposed by the Government on the personnel concerned. It is not enough to sit down and report on a decision already taken in advance by the Basque Government, as was done with regard to the payment of the amounts still due with respect to the December 2012 extraordinary payment. Just as he cannot decide for himself what to do with the resumption of contributions. It will be necessary to see what situation it is in, and, if there is any margin, to start applying it. But the first thing you have to say is whether they are actually moving from the payroll, in which case they have to comply with what the Budget Act says, or whether there is room to make such contributions. And I end with the same sentence I said in the plenary on October 29. And what the Basque Socialists really want is for them to learn to sit at a social dialogue table with those who represent the interests of these employees, to agree with them on how to return everything that has been left behind in this crisis. That is why I continue to support our amendment as a whole, the amendment by the Basque Socialist Group. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u38	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u39	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning. Congressmen, good morning. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said that we came from a debate with a high political content, and it seems that this one does not have so much. I do not agree, I believe that this has a lot of political content, and a lot of electoral content, especially for the People's Party. Because in preparing this debate, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I have had some doubts about its form and content. If I made my speech on the basis of purely formal points, it might be useful for me to include a summary of the various legal provisions issued on this subject over the last five years, in the last few years; to review the many judgments that have been handed down, the various interventions of the parliamentary groups in this House, and ultimately also the measures actually taken in the last few years by the various executive bodies located in this autonomous Euskadi. But in the few five months I have been a parliamentarian in this House, I must confess that I have lost my innocence. When I inquired about the issue that brings us here today, I discovered, although I suspected it already, that the key to this debate does not go down those lines. Last November 13, a day of infamous memory of the tragic events of the same night in Paris, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, while defending the measures contained in Royal Decree-Law 20/2011, drastic measures that greatly affected public sector employees, fell into a sort of Freudian lapsus. You said: "Government contributions to voluntary social security entities were stopped, many officials were forced to work more days because productivity had to be increased. They were courageous, courageous and unpleasant measures, at a very delicate time, which the People's Party had cost many votes of public employees. We all know that." End of the date, what would that say. I have for myself, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, that the orchestration of this initiative lies in this mental slip, which seeks nothing but to recover those lost votes. Difficult task, on the other hand. But that lapsus of yours comes devoid of mental censorship, and reveals clearly and clearly that you actually think that. Go ahead, I have had the opportunity to meet Mr Ruiz de Arbulo over the past few weeks, and I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by his parliamentary skills and his good legal standing. Now, I must be frank with you, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo: your apparent safety, aplom and vehemence do not sympathize at all with the truth. On this occasion he is intentionally contradicting the truth, and that is why, in my view, his argumentative speech loses all credibility. All parliamentary groups have the capacity to present initiatives, of course, but based on political responsibility, the question is: What is the People's Party looking for with this initiative? On the other hand, what does this plenary session offer you today at this very moment? Noise. This is a magnificent resonance box, and you see yourself in the short-plated texture of raising the volume, of increasing decibels, and so, if the bronchus were possible, honey on the leaflets. I was grateful to hear Mr Semper at the previous point talking about concord and coming here to provide solutions. I was so funny, I almost fell out of my seat. And when I come to this debate, I will make a major reference to the General Budgets of the State, but it cannot and must not be obviated that there was and is basic legislation that conditions the day-to-day nature of public administrations, subordinating, among other things, their personnel policies. We cannot forget that budgetary stability is constitutionally enshrined, and that in April 2012 the Rajoy Government passed a law (organic law, for more signs) called budget stability and financial sustainability. But, going to the subject before us, all the general budgets of the Rajoy State expressly prohibit the administration of the Autonomous Community from making contributions to voluntary social security institutions of public employees. Although it is true that as of 2014, as a result of an amendment tabled by the Basque Group in the Congress of Deputies, as you have said, this obstacle is sweetened, when the people's government partially accepts the amendment that makes it possible to make contributions, provided that they do not lead to an increase in the wage mass. Well, well, let's get to the legal texts, the facts. The State General Budgets Act for 2016, published very recently on 30 October 2016, repeats the scheme in its article 19, paragraph 2. And it is literal: "In 2016 the salaries of staff serving the public sector will not be able to experience an overall increase of more than 1% compared to those in force on 31 December 2015, in terms of homogeneity for the two periods of the comparison, both in terms of the number of staff and the age of the comparison". That is to say, if the Basque Government or this Parliament decides that the salaries of staff in the Basque public sector are increased by 2%, they will not be able to do so. They couldn't do it, could they? We agree on that. However, the following paragraph reads exactly as follows: "Subsection three. During the financial year 2016, the administrations, entities and companies referred to in paragraph One of this Article" (which includes the administrations of the Autonomous Communities and their dependent bodies) "may not make contributions to pension, employment or collective insurance plans that include the coverage of the retirement contingency. "By way of derogation from the preceding paragraph and provided that there is no increase in the wage mass of the reference administration, in the terms laid down in this Law, the said administrations, entities and companies (...) may make contributions to pension, employment or collective insurance plans which include the coverage of the retirement contingency, provided that the aforementioned insurance plans or contracts have been signed before 31 December 2011." That's what the law says. You are a jurist, and you know that the interpretative capacity of this rule is what it is. And more so when you have come to the appearances of different advisors, when they presented the budgets of their respective departments, and you have repeatedly and repeatedly asked (I was there) about contributions to voluntary social security entities and other public service issues, such as the issue of extra-deleted pay. From these appearances and from the draft general budget of the Autonomous Community presented by the Basque Government a few weeks ago, one conclusion is drawn: the forecast that expenditure (again I repeat), the forecast that expenditure in Chapter I will be increased in 2016 by 1.8% compared to 2015. It's a data, a data not subject to interpretation. You know that, in the absence of budgetary appropriations for contributions to the EPSV in previous years, these contributions would mean, in the case of the administration of the Autonomous Community, an increase in the wage mass. But, like so many others, this is not a new issue in this House, much less. This is not the debate, but it is not a new debate, it is a repeated debate. In December 2013, less than two years ago, EH Bildu was pleased to discuss measures affecting public employees (see wage freezes, the abolition of extra pay, prohibitions on contributions to EPSV, etc.). In that debate, her co-religionist, Mrs Llanos, who is in front of her, was defending with her fingernails and teeth the measures taken by the People's Party Government, praising the financial foundation in the governance regime of public administrations and the budgetary orthodoxy applied to the public service. In particular, Mrs Llanos pointed this out to the representative of Bildu, Mrs Zulaika, and I quote: "What is not worth putting forward is measures without their being accompanied by their funding model, as this responds to a model of demagogic, easy, with little rigour and, ultimately, hypocritical policy." End of date. Ironies of fate, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I see myself in the thesis of answering you in similar terms to those made by your party partner to Bildu's representative. And the most incomprehensible thing, Mr Arbulo, is that you, precisely you, have to do this piece of paper with this initiative, leaving principles as dear to you, to the Group of the European People's Party, as they are to legal certainty and budgetary rigour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. A group that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u41	Thank you, President. I understand that there are two opposing positions in this matter. On the one hand it was defended by the proponent of this initiative, and on the other hand the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government, beyond the position, let us say, intermediate that has also been defended by the Socialist Group. The Group of the European People's Party proposes and calls for us to demand that the Basque Government reintroduces to the EPSV funds of officials, contributions that were banned in 2011 within the cut-off package that the Government of Spain approved in order, as was said at the time, to avoid rescue and ensure budgetary stability. The Group of the European People's Party, during the debate in this House two weeks ago, pointed out to the spokesman for the Basque Government that, in fact, the outlaws and some municipalities have been able to do so, and have not been met with resources from the State's Advocate, because it was said that it was a question of finding the right formula to do so. And he asked the Government to look for that proper formula and proceed to do what he was asked to do. Basically what the People's Group says, therefore, is that there are no legal obstacles. Therefore, we have the position of the People's Party, which comes to say that we can indeed, or the Basque Government can, while the position of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government is "No, we cannot, because the law prevents us." It was also explained two weeks ago by the Basque Government spokesman, and today by Mr Latxaga. Erkoreka interpreted that the Basque Government cannot make contributions to EPSV because it is prevented by law, since the condition is that the realization of such contributions does not mean an increase in the wage mass. And Mr Erkoreka said that when financial economic conditions permit such contributions will be made, provided that this ban is lifted. And he accused the spokesman of the People's Group of Electoralism, and pointed out to him that "Do not force me to fail to comply with a basic rule of the State that is approved by you, by the PP. The prohibition is restrictive, decisive; there is no margin." Therefore, there are, let us say, two positions: one defended by the People's Group, which comes to say that it can actually be done, the law allows it, and the position of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government, which comes to say, "You cannot because the law prevents us from doing so." It certainly draws attention to how the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party recall the current legality and the impossibility in this case of applying certain measures, thus resorting to the basic norms and the Spanish legality, when on other occasions what they claim is to violate that existing legality. In any case, I am saying that what the People's Group was saying, and it has been saying, is that we can, and that the Basque Nationalist Party is saying that we cannot, that the law prevents us. On the other hand, it is true that this measure was one of the many cuts promoted by the People's Party against officials. Now he intends to wash his face, and in pre-electoral times he proposes this initiative. I believe that at this point we are all basically in agreement. UPyD position, to finish my speech. The contributions to the voluntary social welfare plans of civil servants are not a formula that we like too much, and, on the other hand, it is certainly a sarcasm that the PP is now presenting this initiative, but we understand that it is an acquired right of public employees, and therefore we will vote in favour of the initiative, because we also understand that the law allows it. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative, beyond being defended by the People's Group, because we believe that it is fair and that the law could allow it. And if this initiative does not come out, and I suppose it will not come out, we would be willing to vote in favour of the Socialist Group's initiative. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Arrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u43	Good morning, everyone. To-day, Populous groups again, in the election court, we would like to mention a few things about the suggestion that the volunteer system of public officers has made about the introductions of the Euskozoics. On the one hand, before we speak of social precedent systems, we mean that EH Collect stands out for the public pension system and that this system must be the fundamental column in a purely and solid society. It's a social priority to guarantee the dignity of public pension systems. And that's why we've insisted on the slowing reform we've made in the past few years. We defend a public system of pensions, and we defend ourselves in order to decide and manage it, in other words, in order to prevent a restrictive policy. Pents must live with dignity, and to-day it is not so, even at a distance. There's lots of pensions that don't support enough to live. And he is the Popular Party, which is attacking the public pensioning system for the last few years, and the latter by means of the various reforms established and established. So the priority is this: ensure the worthy public system of pensions for all of us. The systems of social pretention must, in any case, be supplementary, voluntary. And on this road, at the moment of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, two social preventive systems began: Membership on the one hand (firstly) and, after Izari, they are both connected with the circle of collective negotiation. There have been great debates, and they are now even now about the setting of these systems, and they are both engaged in a collective negotiation. And many contrary opinions, especially in the case of Izarri. In a certain sense, it has been a system imposed on many workmen, far from being voluntary. Consistency, as has been said before, is fostered by supplementary pensions, whilst public pensions are diminished, and other interests by default. With regard to contributions, as already mentioned in the previous interventions, the 2011 Decree-Law of 30 December of urgent budgetary, tax and financial measures for the correction of the public deficit imposes significant cuts in the working conditions of public workers. Among them are the contributions of the administrations to these plans, in our case to Elkarkidetza and Itzarri, entities of supplementary social security. Cuts that were applied and applied to public sector workers in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. One more, one more cut, this one we are talking about today, among many cuts: wage freeze, staff freeze, 10% replacement rates, increase in working hours, among others. With the adoption of Law 22/2013 of 23 December of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2014, the door is opened, with conditions, to reactivate the pension plans of employees and public employees, limited, as has already been said also for 2012 and 2013, to the contingency risk. It didn't make any sense when the reductions were set. As it was forced, it was very easy; But now it's a different thing, but now it's a good idea. They have allowed him to return from Madrid, as it seems, a large price taken from public workers in 2012, but he will not return anything in 2016, although this legislature has asked him to do so. It's just the same with the introductions to the social promissation team. The forums and the councils are doing it. They're getting along together for a long time, and I'm afraid some of them have never stopped doing that. You know, it's not, it's not. It doesn't do it for the people, or for some few transfers of workers in union. And the explanations which Mr. Erkoreka gave are also relevant. And I tell you, after all, not to pay for extra fees, because he spoke of the stability of the budget as an argument, which came from Madrid: "There's no money," stability up and down... And he said he couldn't make social appeals because the basic rules that Madrid had established don't leave him. Neither. And it seems to us that there must be a face in order not to take a single step at all to use such arguments. There is time to decide here what concerns public workmen and public services, rather than to be always under what Madrid says. Sometimes, I'd say, it's just an excuse to keep it down or keep it up. The point of the meeting of the "EH" and the whole 29th of the proposal goes along the way of what was discussed in the discussion of special fees. It's been a lot of public employees that's been taken from Madrid and for the past few years. What we're discussing today is another reduction between a lot of people. You get it in your labor agreements and you need to make a way to get back what you've taken from. Not because Madrid permits it or not, but because we want it here because public employees deserve it and are grateful for public services. No correction has been made for us, since our opinion has been received in the other proposition, which has been received in the whole of the 29th of the first October. What did you say? On the one hand, apart from the charges of reduction, two important things were said. The first thing is that when you're going to say that you're going to get back to the big pay of 2012, you're gonna have to go back to 25% before Christmas is over in December, 50% of 2016. And the third point, in order that all the other restrictions which we have made should be carried back to the point which we are discussing today, was to open a way of restoring what was taken away, and to this end it was said that it must open and expand the way of the collective negotiation. We're asking you to do this today. No more, not less. And we have to say that we don't even see anything about it from the side of the funk. Why do we say this? It is not foreseen in the budget, and it seems shameful to us, and incomprehensible, all that. And those who, in some cases, have maintained, protected, and brought these proposals... because in this case the Social Party, regardless of all this, is either agreeing to the budget, or because it agrees to it. PP's proposal is an informist, it's clear. What you're doing, after doing what they're doing, it's not credible to bring such proposals back at the moment. In the case of justice, which has been done by the Socialist Party, as I have said before, is the same here received in the assembly of the previous party, which is already admitted. And EAJ again throws the ball out: All the fault is in Madrid, all the fault. We don't agree. So, as I said, we confirm that we have accepted on October 29th. We're asking you to do what the law has agreed to, and we ask you to bring back what you've taken from the public, and that's what we're asking you to include in the budget games that don't belong to today. It is not a dispute whether the Government of the State permits, whether the mass is increased or not, whether it is necessary to make an inquiry. It is a question whether there is really any political will here to restore what has been taken from the public workmen, and give them the place of public services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Passing on the answers, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u45	Thank you, President. All the representatives of the groups coincide in painting the electoral initiative, and I will tell you that it is not. I introduced this initiative when I arrived in this House, but it is that I entered in October (I formally entered in July, but until there were no plenary sessions I did not enter), and as soon as I had the opportunity and saw the budgets I put it. And when I was told in the budgets that absolutely nothing was going to be done, because it was not of interest, so I raised the question. The lehendakari, what? He's gone again! The other day he didn't even go up to the gallery to answer me. He has left for the debate today. That is their concern for the officials of the Basque Government. That's when I raised it. I don't care exactly if there are elections, because this is not a regulatory problem, Mrs Sánchez. And you come here with your speech written from yesterday or the day before at home, you come, you read it, and you don't care exactly what I told you before. You read directly the leaflets you had, and you didn't answer any of the questions I asked you, Mrs. Sánchez. And you have important legal knowledge, and you are also a civil servant, and you know that what you have said is not true. Look, this is not an electionist. I was in the outlaw government before I was in this House. In 2014 we began to make contributions to the voluntary social security plans of the civil servants, when the law allowed us to do so and when we made the necessary adjustments in the payroll. Require the government to make its adjustments! No one's asked for them! "No, we'll ask you for a report..." The reports are made since 2012 by Elkarkidetza, they can be used, they are exactly the same, and you know it, or at least you should know it. And, Mr Latxaga, it was not a mental lapse to talk here about the votes that those measures cost the People's Party. Not at all. I said it was a tough measure, a brave measure. And why was he brave? Because I knew that measure to the People's Party in the polls was going to cost you a lot of votes. And when the conditions have been met, we have changed the legislation, at your own request. Why did they ask for that possibility, not to fulfill it, what have they done? Don't tell me anything about the payroll. Take appropriate action. I repeat this: the Foral Diputation of Álava, that of Gipuzkoa, that of Bizkaia, hundreds of municipalities of the Basque Country, are making the contributions. That's not electoralism. We started doing it in 2014. And the other day we were talking about the extra pay. Where is the legal cut-off to introduce 75 % of non-payment into the Community's 2016 budgets? There's no legal clipboard. Hello? No, no, Why? Because it doesn't matter. Because it was interesting at the time to criticize the Rajoy government that had taken the step, but when they have the chance to return the money they do not. Is there a legal clipboard here? No, no, See if your argument is inadvisable. And I like you very much too, eh! (I give you back the hijacker from before), of course, but you come and try to deceive us, and you read us a legal text that if you read it well tells you that the wage mass should not be increased... Don't increase it! Do not increase it in other concepts, which other institutions do, I repeat it again! But, look, when they didn't know the final text of the State's General Budgets – that is, that collectible that said it doesn't have to increase the wage mass – but they were negotiating in Madrid to introduce that, they present budgets here. Where was the EPSV departure? Where was he? I wasn't! Then, if at the beginning of my speech I told them that money and will are needed, there was money; will, zero. It was not in the text; the standard had not been adopted in Madrid. But we're going to the next year. The standard has already been approved in Madrid. Where are the measures taken to make the payment of EPSVs effective? Nowhere. Willing, zero. They bring back budget law, and there's no such thing as a line. It's curious. And the rest of the institutions didn't have the line either, but they made the budget change and paid for it. Do not tell me anything about legal clippings, but simply fulfil the will of this Parliament to finish those cuts, which I assume was made by a People's Party government, of course I assume, which is not a lapsus, of course I do. I know. And they were very painful measures, but they were necessary. And the administrations that took note of these measures can pay the extra pay, the contributions and another set of expenses. What's going on? That when we make the budgets we look elsewhere. All right, that's your problem, but you go out and tell the officials. If you don't want to tell him today, let's not talk about electoralism. If I remain in this House in January and they have not fulfilled, don't worry, I'll be back. And there's no election there. I don't know what they'll call me then. It's not a matter of criticism. It is very simple: do you want the contributions paid to the officials?, do so. By the way, apart from other institutions, I think this very house is doing it too. And I have not seen anywhere the complaint of the government delegate, nor the appeal, nor the sentence that condemns him for failing to comply with any existing legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u47	Thank you, President. Today I am not going to exalt myself in the reply as I did on 29 October in plenary, because I come to the conclusion that it is useless. It's just that you don't listen. They don't listen to what others say in the rostrum. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, in this case you have taken the decision to ban contributions by public administrations to voluntary social security schemes since 2012. You have an obsession that already so much to listen to sounds a little horny, and is that your government makes cuts in Spain, but you always look for something that others have done to blame you for the cut you have made to someone else. You have punished officials with your policies for four years, and even the gates of an election have not been agreed upon again. That's the reality. And when the elections pass, we'll see what this collective again worries you. What I hope, however, is that it is not you who have to decide what to do or not to do with that group, but it is the Socialist Group who decides later. They haven't... Their desire for their motion to come out is such that they have not even called, at least to my group, they have not raised a phone, nor have they sent me an email to try to agree. Those are the wishes they have to agree with the rest of the parliamentary groups that their amendment should come out. All they want is to wash their faces in this rostrum, because, otherwise, they would have tried. It is the first time that anyone who proposes an amendment or a motion has tried neither the least nor the least approach to anyone. No one. But, well, you just wanted to do a pose today. I'm telling you, on the budget issue... The other day he didn't listen to me. What I said the other day is that the Basque Government has to sit down and negotiate with the workers' representatives, because it can be a problem. It's just that there's an advance payment. When you pay 25%, you only have to pay 50% of December's. And what if they decide that in December they stop moving forward and only pay 50%? Well, maybe there's money left! It's just that you can give the case, that it's being paid in advance. Or sit back and negotiate... Of course you are, man, you're charging yourself in advance! You could give that case. They have to decide when to stop paying that advance and how to pay the 50% that will remain outstanding once 25% is paid. That's the reality of the situation! That is the reality, because one has been charged in advance. And they still don't realize the situation. How it won't be necessary for you to remember! Well, of course it's necessary. And I agree with the EH Bildu group that, anyway, with what we already approved the other day, the cuts that took place with regard to the issue that is coming up today are already included in point 3 that we approved the other day. Because it was said: "Also, it will negotiate with the unions the recovery of those lost working conditions and of the employment destroyed during these years, taking as reference the last labor agreement". So, whether we leave today or not, the amendment tabled by us... But I did intend to be like the Malay drop again, to want to continue insisting on something that is necessary, and it is to say to the Basque Government "Sit down, negotiate with social representation", because it is important, because the situation that exists right now is complex, and at this very complex moment it is far more important than ever to sit down and negotiate with trade unions. But I have also said that it is important that it is defined exactly whether or not the wage bill is passed or not. The key is that, if you happen, then you have to comply with what the law says; if you don't, then maybe there's a margin to start resuming voluntary contributions. But they have not demonstrated, nor have they reported, nor have they said to the workers' representatives "I am here", with no report, with nothing. That is, it is not really known whether it is not fulfilled, whether there is any margin, or whether they have gone beyond the wage bill. So, what I'm saying is that the serious thing is, listen, if you're saying "It's happening to me," okay, make the report, prove it to the unions, and if you see in that report that there's a margin to resume again, because then the law is being followed by that margin, and that contribution can be made during 2016. That's serious, and that's what we've been defending here. And, therefore, what my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialist Group, is going to defend today is its amendment, because it continues to insist on the same thing we said the other day: the situation is complex; sit down and negotiate with the trade unions, because it is important. I know that you do not give importance to collective bargaining, because you have carried it out, and to bargaining with trade unions, because you have carried it out during those four years, or you have tried to carry it out to the maximum. But we, my group, do attach importance to that negotiation. That is why we ask the Basque Government to do so, because the situation you have created is very complex, and that has to be done by agreeing with the trade unions. In this way it will be much less traumatic for workers affected by all their cuts. Nothing more, and thank you very much... I therefore call on you to support the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. Forgive me, and Bildu, who I had forgotten, because they supported our compromise amendment, because we signed it together, and our amendment today is practically the same as the third point that we approved the other day, because I ask you for your support, because it is exactly the same, practically, as what we approved the other day. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u48	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u49	Good afternoon again. We are going to defend our amendment. We are going to defend our amendment because we are putting legal certainty ahead of any circumstance that comes here, in some way, by putting it on the table. Legal certainty is not something I've been walking around. Life is at stake and you have thousands of public employees. In that connection, we call on the Government to continue to work, and to use all available resources, taking into account, as I say, the principle of legal certainty, to take measures to improve the working conditions of employees of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community. Because in this matter, in improving those conditions, on which there will be no doubt, and accessions and unanimity will be called for virtually everywhere, but in this House, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, it is up to us to work and reach agreements on how. And how I have not heard any party, no parliamentary group, speak exactly of how we can achieve that; how we can improve the living conditions of the workers of the Autonomous Community. Regarding what Bildu said, it rains on wet. It gives me that you are not fond of Bible readings, but here I think the phrase that "by their deeds you will know them" applies. Briefly, I refer to what was done in this matter by the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council when you were ruling. Txintxo-txintxo, bete eta betearazi egin zenituzten egonkortasun ekonomikoari buruzko acting guztiak, age gay Honetan era bai. Anyway, I would like to have the magic potion, the magic potion or the formula by which all the value, all the value and the brilliant initiatives come to mind as long as they are in opposition. As far as the Socialists are concerned, I am deeply sorry that I was unable to reach an agreement. We've been talking about a transactional... And I'm deeply sorry because I think there was common ground for that agreement. We were talking about the resumption, and we had shown a willingness to resume those contributions whenever possible within the existing legal framework. But I would, in some way, like to stress the lack of consistency of the Socialist Party, which has just announced a budget agreement to, supposedly, improve the accounts of the Urkullu Government, and one day later proposes resolutions that directly undermine that agreement. I think it's an obvious contradiction, and I think anyone sees it. Have you seen the forecast for an increase in Chapter I of the budget document? Because there is an increase of 1.8% in that section from 2015 to 2016; there is an increase in the wage mass. Is there any interest in the Socialist Party's failing legal framework? The truth is I would have liked to see a little more rigour, or at least a little common sense. I am not going to demand legal and economic rigour from those who oppose everything and give everything absolutely the same, but a party with purported aspirations for government can be asked for that rigour and common sense. Because we have to make a brief review of history, and the brief review of history tells us that the governments of Madrid (Mrs. Sánchez, if you will listen to me)..., the governments of Madrid between 2010 and 2012 (in 2010 I do not have to remind you who was ruling) decided by decrees on salary cuts, wage freezes, the withdrawal of extra pay, deferred salary, the prohibition of contributions to pension plans, to EPSVs...; all of them measures that have directly affected the purchasing power of public employees. But the Urkullu Government has not adopted any of these measures, nor has it proposed them, nor has it taken any initiative at its own initiative. It's just to remember something I think you should keep in mind. As far as the People's Party is concerned, the surprising thing is that it obviates or throws principles as close to it as legal certainty and budgetary rigour. More when, for this and other issues, we are accustomed to crutches like "the law", "the law will be enforced", "we must scrupulously abide by legality"... It seems to invite you to fail to comply with a very forceful basic rule, by the way, of the State, which is approved by you. It appears that the Basque Government would like to submit to the appeals of the State lawyer or his co-religionist the delegate of the Government, who continues to closely monitor the regulations of the public administrations. You suggest that there is no problem, that there is no litigation. This is an act of faith, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo. Today, the Basque Government has more than thirty open judicial conflicts with the State. And when he talks about doing the homework around chapter I, what exactly is he referring to? Are you referring, in order to somehow be able to make contributions to EPSV, are you referring perhaps to amortizing places in health and education? Oh, no? Well, tell me, how you're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u50	Go to the end, Mr. Lachaga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u51	I repeat, if instead of a sterile initiative you want to seek solutions, you have us at your side. Because if you are really willing to make clear in this House what legal and economic measures must be taken, I am ready to learn. The group I represent, Euzko Abertzaleak, is willing to observe, listen, analyze and collaborate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Maniro, Mistto. He won't say a word. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u53	A couple of questions in this last speech. First, it is curious that today the People's Party wants to show itself as the greatest defender of workers in the public sector. The policies that PP has made, where there are some of the policies he makes, I believe they are both very clear about public services, and even about public workmen. In the case of public services, these weaken and destroy as much as possible, and the conditions of public labor bend over to the archasure, as often as he can, with an excuse, or other. To the Socialist Party two questions. One, we agreed in the plenary in late October, and we agreed on three very concrete things, one of which the Socialist Party will no longer comply with, which is the payment of the extra pay due from 2012. Point 3 is accepted, it makes no sense to bring it back to decide again. We don't understand that position. We do not understand the position of defending a few things and deciding a few things and then, in two weeks, signing a budget agreement that does not take a small step, nor one, in that sense. It is not that everything that was decided in that non-law proposal is not accepted or respected. It's just nothing, you don't even take the slightest step in that direction. And the E.A.J.... Legal security told us. To make cuts we are always told about legal certainty, one cannot do anything else, and they always impose us from Madrid. When there is legal certainty there is no money, or we have budgetary stability, which has also been imposed on us in Madrid. There's no room for us to move here. It's not true, and not only do we not share it. No-it's-it's not. There are other possibilities. El comodín de la Divación Foral de Gipuzia es ya más que un comodín. But, as you know very well, the Gipuz Indulous Foru, for instance, made another way round the extra fee, and led another way, which you don't mention. And in the case of association, the deputations (all) and the councils (even the Councils of the EH collect) have been making contributions for a long time. And, as I said before, some of them have never ceased to do so. And those paths can be done if there's will. It is enough to always come with the same discourse. At this moment, there are means of restoring to public workers what they've been deprived of, there are possibilities, and there's money. It's just a matter of course, and that's what you're not ready to do, and these budgets are a clear illustration of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Ruiz de Arboulo Cerio. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 10; contraries, 42; white, 0; abstinence, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u55	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the full order of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 16; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstinence, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u56	Integer correction not allowed. And in the end, we vote for the full rights of the Eubertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of the contrary, 27; contrary, 24; white, 0; Abstations 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u57	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Eusscal Sozialist made the same suggestion as the parliamentary party, Juan Sebastian Elkano, the Gorican sailor, finished the world's spin of the world. about getting the worst of the century out of here. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Azkue, representative of the Basque Socialists, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u58	Mr. President, Mr. President. Of course, first of all, I want to welcome the mayor of Getari, Nikari, he's with the sheriffs, and also I love Cruzado, Director of Tourism in Gipuzia. Thank you for being here, at home. Hasi aurretik, Eta legez besteko proposed in Honen zergatiez hitz egiteko, Gare egunkariaren joan den asareranen 17ko azken orrialdea erakutsi nahi dizuet. Bertan said, "Elcano, on one of Norwegian's planes." Baita ere gave: "The face of the navigator who completed the first round of the world in 1522 decorates one of the Boeing 737-800 of the Norwegian line". The news points out that for the first time Norwegian breaks with its policy of limiting to Norwegian characters this policy of images that highlighted or highlighted characters that have challenged limits and norms and inspired third parties. And the question that arises is when it's up to us to start what others are working on and how we're going to do it. Before we had the news of Norwegian, our Socialist team presented the other proposal as we are going to discuss today. We could not afford to spend the days, months and years without the Basque Government taking over the work and steps taken to lead the commemoration of the fifth centenary of the first round of the world by the Getaria City Council (and a special memory of Andoni Aristi) and the Government of Patxi López, in collaboration with the Government of Spain through Ramón Jáuregui, who was in the Ministry of the Presidency. Once again we have to start up at all institutional levels, because we certainly believe in the great opportunity offered to us by the Basque Country and its citizens what was once a great event: the first circumnavigation carried out by a human being. On 22 March 1519 the expedition led by Fernando de Magallanes, consisting of five ships and 234 men, departed from Seville to Sanlúcar de Barrameda. On September 20, 1519, he sailed the fleet towards a new route in the search for species from Sanlúcar de Barrameda. More than three years later, on September 6, 1522, Nao Victoria, under Elcano's command, arrived at Sanlúcar de Barrameda, completing the first round of the world with a total of 18 crew members. The captain of the nao Victoria was our Juan Sebastián Elcano, born in Getaria in 1476. The crew members who completed the round of the world with Elcano were natives of Axio, Rhodes, Bermeo, Vicenza, Savona, Merida, Nauplia, Huelva, Sevilla, Bayona, Aquisgran, Bilbao, Cueto and Barakaldo. Although I will come back to this later, I would like to recall the origin of the crew members who have completed their journey around the world, because this fact tells us that the feat is undoubtedly a feat whose commemoration must not only have a localist vision, but also bring us closer to celebrating a European feat, which the European Union itself must assume as such, remembering it and celebrating it as a common part of our Europeanism. The wars have been constant over the past five hundred years, and it is time to remember in this globalised world that the united Europeans were able to carry out great feats that have, without a doubt, left a mark on the progress of the Europeans, yes, but of humanity too, with Europe. The fifth centenary of this return to the world, perfectly comparable, in the days we live, to a coming approximation of astronauts to other planets, is undoubtedly for Getaria, Gipuzkoa and Euskadi a great opportunity to place us on the European and world map, which will undoubtedly help to make our economic and cultural reality known, opening up multiple possibilities for development for all Basque citizens. To this end we must establish an open program of commemorations, with cultural and other events that will undoubtedly be held also in other cities such as Sanlúcar de Barrameda and Seville, also in other territories of several continents, and, of course, in Sabrosa (Portugal), birthplace of Fernando or Hernando de Magallanes. We have to use this three-year term and bet to place it in this globalized world as European representative. We have three years of opportunity for Getaria, Gipuzkoa and Euskadi to do well and have an open window so that the world to which we have made a full tour knows us; know our capabilities, know our products, what we are able to do in the industry, in the seas. In short, three years in which we must take advantage to create human and economic ties that will surely place us in more progress and employment opportunities for our unemployed, and especially for our young people. Even for our stalls, and especially for the Getari, we need to attract and demand investments. Let's think of three years in which we can approach those ports where brave sailors did it 500 years ago. This time offering on behalf of Elcano products such as the wine of Rioja Alavesa, or chacolí of Getaria, Araba or Bizkaia, also our cider, with excellent preserved fish or cheese of Idiazabal. Let us also think about bringing our industries closer to an internationalization that we cannot lose as a goal, extending our R & D & i knowledge to other countries. And it will be a fact that if we are able to be known, they will want to see us, and they will come to show them our corners, our land. A window to consolidate a tourism that without massifications, as corresponds to our orography, climate and way of being, brings wealth to the whole of Euskadi. Others have understood it this way, and one feels sorry that we are late thinking that we still have a lot of time left. Even the pope has received authorities from the so-called network of Magallanic cities. Work is also under way on the inclusion of the Magallanes-Elcano route in the UNESCO World Heritage List. We must move and work together with the rest of those who feel they are also part of this feat, each in their own way, but taking advantage of the synergies that will undoubtedly arise and sharing initiatives with the populations and territories that had to do with circumnavigation, thus enhancing the actions that are programmed. There are issues to be corrected, and one of them is that, without a doubt expressing our appreciation to Magallanes, we extend the same recognition to Elcano, who, although it hurts us from here, does not have it. Let us therefore begin our journey in Getaria with Elcano; let us participate with Bermeo remembering Juan de Acurio, countermaster or pilot of the no Victoria; let us continue to Bilbao with Juan de Arratia, grumete, and let us finish the journey in Euskadi with Juan de Zubileta, paje, in Barakaldo. Let's follow the tour on the peninsula, stopping in Cueto, with the grumete Juan de Santander; visiting in Bayona (Galicia) Diego Carmena, sailor, and Vasco Gómez Gallego, grumete. We pass towards Extremadura, in Mérida, with Hernando de Bustamante, barber and sailor; to go to the south, in Huelva, and meet with two sailors, Antonio Hernández Colmenero and Juan Rodríguez, and saying goodbye in Seville to sailor Francisco Rodríguez. And let us jump to the rest of Europe with the crew of the Nao Victoria: two pilots of Axio and Rhodes, Francisco Albo and Miguel de Rhodes, and two other Greek sailors, Miguel Sánchez de Rhodes and Nicolás the Greek, of Nauplia; the Italians Antonio Lombardo Pigafetta, outstanding and travel writer, and Martín Yudícibus, sailor of Savona, along with Hans, of Aquisgran, German. They add up to the eighteen I wanted to name as a tribute, yes, but to remind you that it was a European crew. I am convinced that, as they did, we can do this, and that today in this House this begins well, with a transacted amendment that captures the important points of conclusion, which are only tasks to really open that window that gives us the fifth centenary. Tasks that the Gipuzkoa Council, the Gipuzkoa Council and the Government will undertake (we will undertake) successfully in collaboration with all, also with the Government of Spain, so that the Basques who live here in a hundred years can say proudly "Lan ederra egin zitean orin dela ehun urte". That's what we say by the geriatrics for those who a hundred years ago proposed a commemoration that involved much for the development of the people and Gipuzkoa. My country is stable. I'm a marinine too, and the people of the Vale love the sea. Salitrous gives us something; many say so, it is singular. I call it a chip. No doubt Elkano was very fond of them. We need a shot of what we've got here to get to the right port. Let's all work and have the best wind. I wouldn't want to finish this song without remembering it, to make it everyone's song: "Long live Elkano! Up up and up / Getari's strong man, and be with Ludi ally / Rotate the carnival! / Your wanderings suffered, and for man the sea, / Showing the posterity of the world, how great the desire of those who were in it was, up and up, the good son of the G's for ever! "I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u59	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u60	Thank you, and good noon to everyone. Before all, I'd like to say hello to the mayor of Getaria and the councilmen, and also the representative of the Gipulic Fordun. Welcome to all of us. And let's hope that what we're going to accept here today is really his career for years. Good-bye, in our opinion, of the Emperor Elkano of Getaria, the V. century of the Gauria sailor, is of strategic importance in order to spread the Basque Country into the world. And that's why we think we should remember and protect this incident. First of all, from his historic value: Not only was it the first tour given to the world, but it also strengthened the theory of the roundness of the earth. But besides these, there are other reasons why this memory should be counted worthy of its value. As Jon Azku has well said, there were more Basque crews besides Elkano, among others. Of the 18 living sailors, for instance, you mentioned the Hartian Juan de Acurian, Diego Carmen, the Bay, Juan de Arria of the Bodibo, or Juan de Barakal, or Joan de Bridgelet. And among the departure sailors, the number of eucalypcans would not be small. And this is a part of our history, a part of our memory, and to restore and rebuild it, at least it seems very important to us. So we call it a very interesting initiative to establish and proclaim the history and legacy of the Basque Country. Secondly, he must consider the international influence which he exercises, because it is an excellent opportunity to give the Basque people over to the world, and to make them know it; such as the fundamentals of the technology, the science of navigation, and the administrative structure of Europe, are the origin of the Euscanic nation. Thirdly, The project is of importance to its nature as well as to its share. The project which extends to all the institutions and enterprises of the Basque Country, on the one hand, and on the other because it is also sought to encourage the countries which occupied it. And finally, because of the social, cultural, and economic benefits that it is capable of, we think, without doubt. And that's why we signed the middle-way for all that's left for today, thinking he's getting the people's will and the message: From breakfast to Basque People and Basque Town to the world. First of all, beginning with the Council of Getaria, the rest of the euskal institutions. On the other hand, to share the enterprise with the country of the circus navigation: one with Andaluci, Portugal, and Leon, in this case, and Ruta Magallanes-Elcano at the time, as Jon had mentioned. Thirdly, Let the different Institutions of the Common-wealth, Europe, and the United Nations be made necessary, to the remuneration of all the Basque Institutions, in the memory of the Regeneration of the World of Elkano. And finally, considering that the ceremony will be from 2019 to 2022, the same time as the time of the journey, the project will be a share of money since 2017. PSE, EAJ, is a medium agreed on between us, but we hope that for the reasons given, we may also receive the support of the other groups. And, finally, just to thank Jon Azkue from the Socialist Group and the Son of Jelzaz, for the presidency you have shown to Aguirre. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u61	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u62	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. President, Congressmans, good morning to all of you. And the mayor of Getaria and the authorities who came with him and the Director of Foru Indundo. The Basque Country, although it was a small nation, has been the home of many famous peoples throughout its history. Some of the names, for example, are the founder of the International Law of Francisco de Vittoria, of Juan de Zuzinaga, defender of the Indians, not Ignacio de Loyola, the founder of the jesuit company, and of Francisco Javier his friend, or of Juan de Garay, Bruno Mauricio de la Lala, and Jose de Anchieta, Buenos Aires, Montevideos, and Sa Paulo's founders. And if we mention America, of course not, the Simón Bolívar Liberator. In other parts too: We've had musicians (Suraga or Maurice Ravel)... All these made our name known to them throughout the world, in the eucacution. I believe that at other times, in other parts, famous persons have come out of our country: physics, opera, sport, or not, as we saw last night in cooking. All men and women with great names. But, I think, if the Basques have been specially distinguished somewhere, they have certainly been in the sea. At first, some anonymous fishermen went to Terrana to look for whales, and then we've had so many famous seafarers in our history. Here we have Urdaneta, Legsub, Okendo, Blas de Lezo (as the Admiral Edmiral One Leg, was called by the English bakulcates, and the only one who defeated the invincible army) and Barruz and Mazarado, like many others. And all these, not only were separate sailors, but most of them were astronomers, geographers, and mathematical ones. But, no doubt, our first universal Basque was Juan Sebastian Elkano. From childhood he lived in a state of marine culture, fishing and commerce. In classical biography, it is the usual image of Juan Sebastian Elkano: a brave sailor and a conspiracist. And many historians have treated Elkano as an ordinary person: he was a little vagabond, coarse, warrior, and little cultured person. But Elkano was a man of the Renaissance, and it turned around. It is only to be seen what books he had at that time, such as geography or cosmography, and where they were not bought or read by anyone who did not buy or read these books. A few days later Elkano, a man of arms, took Oran in Argelian, a town of Cisneros on the expedition of Ciseros, and later took part in the operations of Gonzalus Fernández de Córdobas in Italy. At this time the Basques were a connection between the Atlantic and the Mediterranean, with their monopoly and their cargoes moving from one side to the other. Juan Sebastian Elkano, who was thirty, arrived at Seville in 1519, and, as we all know, in order to find a substitute for the western expedition to the rich lands of Asia, the rich lands of the Indies, was preparing the Portuguese Ferdinand Magellanes. It is true that most of the Houses of Seville had been eucalized at that time, and it is probable that Elkanos, Acurius, and others of the Basques had been introduced by this expedition. After all, the Basque Basques of Seville worked like a phactic power, and we'd say today that they were a hobby. The voyage to the sea was very difficult from the beginning. They crossed the Atlantic to Patagonia, and, after having defeated with great difficulty from the sea which is now known to the name of Magellanes, and so many revolts, entered the Pacific, leaving America behind them. He reached the Philippines, where, after killing Fernando Magellanes, Elkano took over the command of Victoria. From this point on, by his firm will and the experience of the sea, he had also won the command of all the expedition by crossing India. The return to Elkano's expedition was a terrible achievement for my part. He confirmed all the theories of the hour and opened a commercial road. On the second expedition, in 1525, on the expedition of Loaïs, who was going to Molluk and Ozeania, four-fifty of their friends, and they all died, except Urdan and Artia. And that was a terrible disaster. Elkano died as he had lived: in the sea, and in the face of the unknown world. Juan Sebastián Elcano is undoubtedly a historical character of undoubted universal value, which at the same time reflects the international importance that the Basques had at the beginning of the 16th century in maritime navigation. In our view, the milestone to be commemorated is more the culmination of the expedition than the beginning, it is more 1522 than 1519, but it is also true that other actors, such as the World Network of Magellanic Cities that Mr. Azkue has quoted earlier, have been moving for more than two years to obtain on the one hand a series of commemorations throughout the route, and on the other hand that UNESCO recognizes as intangible world heritage the Magallanes-Elcano route. I therefore believe that the Basque Government will also have to coordinate with other bodies, other institutions, the programme to be implemented. I believe that the commemoration program of the fifth centenary should allow for a better knowledge of Elcano, but also to publicize the importance that the Basques had at international level in the transatlantic adventure of the time. And it is also true that we could take advantage of the ephemeride to enhance all the other activities of Euskadi (the economy, culture...), and also offer, why not, our solidarity to the countries that need it. There is no doubt that the involvement of other institutions will also have to be sought. I believe it is key that the European Commission is involved, and also that UNESCO finally approves this initiative from other cities, to count the Magallanes-Elcano route in its world heritage. Today – it has also been remembered here – unfortunately, in most history books there are Magallanes, and Juan Sebastián Elcano is a perfect stranger. I believe that out of here and from the peninsula, from Euskadi and the peninsula, everyone believes that the one who did the pregnancy was Magallanes, and Elcano has always been a perfect stranger. So we must recover the image and property of Elkano, and in the world we need to project the action that Juan de Acurius, Diego Carmen, Juan de male and Juan de Bridget, and others that succeeded with Elkano. And that's why we're asking him to make a program for this action with other institutions (both the Getarian City and the Gipuzian Momental Foru). Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u63	Thank you, Mr Aguire. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Miss... He won't say a word. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Michelena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where we're supposed to be. Mr. Lehendakari, good morning to everyone, including the guest gentlemen. I would also like to say a special greeting in my first speech in plenary. We are debating a non-legislative proposal to urge the Basque Government to prepare a programme of events on the occasion of the commemoration of the fifth centenary of the Magallanes-Elcano expedition. When we had before us the text proposed by the Socialist Group we decided not to table amendments to it, because we agreed that this expedition deserves a special commemoration on its fifth centenary, as it has already had, on the other hand, and we also agreed with the terms set out by Mr Azkue in his original text. But I want to take advantage of these minutes offered by the Rules of Procedure to show the satisfaction that for all Basques, and especially for those of us who are Gipuzcoans, it brings to mind the journey initiated by Magallanes and completed by Juan Sebastián Elcano, Gipuzcoan of Getaria. Indeed, without Magellan the expedition would not have been born, and without Elcano, which culminated, it would not have had the enormous international impact that this three-year journey around the globe has had. In the facade of the building of the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation are carved the names of some Gipuzcoans who are remembered as important people in the history of the territory, and draws the attention that many are navigators: Legazpi, Oquendo, Churruca, and naturally Elcano. It is not easy today to imagine what forces led the people of the early 16th century to embark on fragile ships and sail towards the unknown, without having guaranteed the return, but they did. Some failed, and others marked historic milestones, with important consequences. One of the latter is the one that will be commemorated in four years; the journey that, departing from Seville in August 1519, was made to the sea definitely in September in the port of Sanlúcar de Barrameda, and returned three years later, in 1522, to the same port. More than two hundred crew members left in command of Magallanes, and eighteen returned in command of Juan Sebastián Elcano. Why is this expedition commemorated in a special way? First of all, it is necessary to understand the economic importance of finding the way to the West for the Indians, despite the efforts that had been made since Columbus' first voyage. However, beyond commercial intentions, the discoveries of these expeditionaries had an unexpected significance. We'll just quote two. The discovery of the Magellan Strait, at the southern end of America, is crucial for the development of communications between South American ports on the Pacific and Atlantic coasts. And that in our days, I'm talking about our days. Because, to give an idea of the economic impact of the discovery of this step, we will say that in 2008 they passed from one ocean to another through the Strait of Magellan 2,258 ships, avoiding the passage through Cabo de Hornos. Secondly, we have to think about what it meant for the navigators, geographers and scientists of the time to be aware that the expeditionaries had completed the return to the globe, at a time when there were still defenders of the theory that the earth could not be round. Humanity at the beginning of the 16th century was aware of the dimensions of the globe, with the enormous consequences it had for the mapping of the time and for science in general. In fact, this last discovery is the one that has given world fame to the Magallanes-Elcano expedition, and of which as Gipuzcoans, Basques and Spaniards we pride ourselves. As proud as the Getarians themselves, since the fourth centenary they have commemorated every four years the landing of Elcano and his crew in an emotional and solemn reminder of the moment when he was awarded the right to wear the slogan " Primus circumdedisti me ", which does not need translation. Our group therefore fully agrees that the commemoration of the fifth centenary of the circumnavigation of the globe completed by Juan Sebastián Elcano and his seventeen companions is an event that must be supported by the Basque Government in the terms that called for the non-law proposal of the Socialist Group. We would also like to point out that in the justification of this proposal and in the intervention of Mr Azkue, and some others, the origin of the eighteen survivors is cited in due course, which could be taken as a sample of the total of the coils at the beginning of the expedition: Basques, Cantabrians, Galicians, Andalusians, extremists, Germans, Italians... Finally, this justifies the appeal to the European bodies to highlight the international character of the nautical feat that is commemorated. In short, the position of the People's Group is based on three points. First, the importance of the nautical feat of Juan Sebastián Elcano, worthy of a programme of acts and activities promoted by the Basque Government, must be recognized. Secondly, the Basque Government should be urged to coordinate with the institutions that will also commemorate the event: municipalities, the Foral Diputación de Gipuzkoa and the Government of Spain. Thirdly, we call for the necessary steps to be taken to ensure that the commemoration takes the character of a European event. These three points which were in the original proposal are still kept in the transactional; therefore, our vote will be in favour of the transaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. Michelena. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u66	Mr. President, good morning again. Two words to finish. One, to thank Mr Aguire and Mr. Aguire, because it has been easy for us to explain a proper job in this Chamber. EH Collectors and Eunciers of Euncipators. And so is Mr. Michelna's, for the words he said from the Poptular Party. I think we needed him to get out of here today in a single voice. Elkano deserved it. I didn't say anything about Victoria ship, because there are theories. Some say that the rhinth is a drill, that Patxi Elola is a rule, and Elkano (which is more dangerous, but I always say no). I didn't say anything. It's just to tell history that Victoria was owned by a local gunman. Where is he? The Ondarians say it in Ondararos, and Patxi Elols in Zrez. Traditions too. You will forgive me if I say again: I think it's a big day. But the big day always brings back work. And we only wanted to offer this to everyone today that he's started for Euskalis (for Getai, Gipulia, but for the Basques and Basques) and that we'd have to take advantage of it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u67	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Mrs Breñas... He won't say a word. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. I finished my first shift by saying that we had to recover the image and property of Elkano and project it all over the world. After all, Elkano succeeded in not having Christ Colón. In his original GNP, Mr Azkue said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to draw up a programme commemorating the fifth centenary of Elcano's return to the world, so that Getaria, Gipuzkoa and Euskadi will open a window of European and world recognition". Mr Azkue also said in his second point of the GNP that "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to share initiatives with the populations and territories that had to do with circumnavigation, and to strengthen the actions that are planned". Eta guztiz teens nago, honekin bat nator. But in order to achieve what Mr Azkue asked of me, it seemed to me much easier, and above all much more effective, that Euskadi could carry out these actions directly, without having to have any kind of mediation or guardianship. And for that, what better than having your own seat, your own seat in the UN? And that is why I put in a full account of repentance, asking, and asking, another: "On the way to the Gorea, the European and the worldly confession that is worthy of the Basque and the Euskula, and the circus navigation, to share with other nations and countries which concerned it, the law demands the MUDY of the United Nations to inquire what steps it is to make in the United Nations." Para culminar ese concimumenteto, reconocimiito europeo y munal que Getaria, Gipuese y Euskadi se meecen, y compartire inlicatii con las poblinoes y tererías porde Elcano, decir, todo the planet. That is why I asked that the Basque Government consider what steps should be taken to sit at the UN and have a seat. After all, it would simply be to resume an old tradition of the Basque Government, since in 1945, seventy years ago, the Basque Government participated in the San Francisco Conference, which was the creation of the UN, and a year later, in May 1946, that same Basque Government in exile met and held a meeting with the first UN Secretary General, Mr Trygve Lie, and also gave him a report on the political situation. Therefore, to make it clear to everyone, also to some media, and to be reflected here in the minutes, the Euzko Abertzaleak Group has not been confused in its amendment to the whole, and asked for what it was asking for. At least today, we haven't made a mistake, maybe another day. It should also be recalled that the Basque Government has already signed several agreements throughout its history with UNESCO, with Unitar, with Habitat, with Unicef, with UNDP, and that it also signed the Millennium Declaration. Finally, as we are talking about navigators, I would like to point out that this year is the four hundred and fiftyth anniversary of the Urdaneta and Legazpi tornado, and that this Parliament, perhaps before the end of the year, could use it to make some kind of institutional declaration. And I'll propose a text to the groups to see if we can come to some kind of agreement. And I just want to thank Mr. Azkue and Mrs. Breñas, because it was very easy, really, to work with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u69	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Michela will take the word... ? Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the mediumal corrections signed by Basque Socialists, EH Collectors and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u70	Thus, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Gather up [as] a band of the congregation of the congregation, concerning the departure of the house of Arnuldo. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. At thirty years old Michael was murdered under torture. Good-bye and honor. Free bakery, free them all. This is what it says about the campaign that has started in the wide world to free the Usabiaga, and the rest of the euscal prisoners. The politics of the world, the Nobel prizes of Peace, the manners of the Basque Country and Catalonia, the simple members and citizens of the European Parliament, have been attached to this campaign. There have been hundreds of actions and initiatives made to claim the freedom of the bakers. This campaign has been effected from a committee. The only crime of the baker's was politics. It has been a political driver, and therefore a vast and deep attack against him has been carried out. Repression against the vineyard, persecution, cocion has been constant. The person of the bakery has been the object of these penal processes. Not for what he has said, or for what he has done, but for his nature and nature. It's because of everything he stands for. Let's remember the late ten years' represidual route, harassment, against the bakery. In May 2005, Grand Marska imprisoned the baker's house. His theory: HB, EH, are part of the Union and the Union, and part of it with great probability. In November 2005, the king was sentenced to the charge of the torturers. The Court of Human Rights in Europe considered innocently, and punished the Spanish State for breaking the liberty of expressions. In March 2006 Grand March, Grand Marchka, once again brought him back to the Ocera prison, accused him of all the attacks against the goods which had occurred on a general strike. In June 2007, José Miguel Beñaranna, the Thin, was punished for claiming to be the victim of Batallón Vasco. Meanwhile Garzón sued him at 35/02 briefing against the local bars and the Union. In January, 2009, with Łódź, and so many other politicians, they made him sit down on the bacilloe for an oath of disobedience. This case is also filed. And in 2010, the following case, an accusation against the temple of Arnuldo Ocera, was made in a mitina in Ano. In 2010, he got a two-year prison for rising terrorism, because Joseph María Odulduy with Nelson Mandela had compared the prisoner's prisoner, for his long, hard, heavy whip. The Supreme Court abandoned this sentence by the lack of independence of the office of the Ángela Murillo of the National audience. Murillo himself punished the five o'clock in the Circle, and another trial with Murillo's talk. In the Supreme Court the question of the five members of the Union was examined again, and the three conservative judges took advantage of the penalty, while the other two were destructible, the progressists innocently, the mere lottery. This trial is repeated in the Constitutional Court and this game of lotterys: in this case, for the preservation of seven voyces, against the preservation of five. Of these I refer to the opinion of the only Basque man in the Constitution of the Court, of Adelaide Asú, who, perhaps, knows the reality here, and, perhaps, because his opinion is more detailed. "The conviction is based on a series of objective facts that are totally inconsistent to believe that the appellants on those dates would have made the decision to submit to the collective designs of the terrorist organization and offer their availability to it." "Completely inconsistent facts", that was the version, that was the appreciation, interpretation of Adela Asúa, vice president of the Constitutional Court. Today we have heard the decision of another court, in this case the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It rejects that the PP's militancy of the President of the Constitutional Court harms its independence, something that may be questionable (may be, although I believe we would all deserve a reprimand assessment), but warns the European Court of Human Rights that it will prosecute the performance of Judge Murillo; it will assess whether that process in the National Court was carried out at the beginning of 6.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which speaks of an independent and impartial tribunal; it will enter into the fund and position itself before that assessment that stressed by Adela Asúa, who considered the objective facts totally inconsistent. I would like to point out that the lack of consistency does not occur in the evidence provided. It occurs in the absence of criminal acts, of objective facts that could be imputed to him. That is the most plausible conclusion that we can make in addition to that historical, of those nine processes that I have commented have been opened against Arnaldo Otegi. Sentence is sought even without criminal acts. There is an interest in condemnation which also shows a will for political persecution; an inconsistent persecution, as Adela Asua says, but which is effective. An obsessive will that Arnaldo Otegi cannot express himself freely. The continued and systematic violation of their right to assemble or organize around legal acronyms. The violation of their right to pursue public policy action, transparent, in a standardized manner. A criminal prosecution not for what it says, not for what it does, but for who it is. Who's the one who says it and who's the one who does it. Pure copyright. Someone will think that Otegi has a problem with justice. Many others think that it is justice, this Spanish justice, that has a problem, an irrational blindness, a persecutory mania against Arnaldo Otegi and all that it represents. We believe that the Government, successive governments, have delegated to justice the task of removing it from political action in a way that is more consistent with an appearance of the rule of law. That said, I propose to analyse why, that is, why such a repressive effort. Why? Because they thought that by imprisoning the person, the people, they buried the political project they were defending. Because they were sure that by removing the key pieces from the middle the political chess board might be more favorable to him; because by deceiving a political sensibility that was taking crucial steps towards a political change of silence perhaps they could continue to manage the old-fashioned political times in that way. Because if nothing changed, the political landscape might be more favourable to them. For pure and hard political advantage. And while we are speaking of this, the pusher of all these initiations, the author of this absurd theory, the creator, shows himself again: former Judge Baltasar Garzón. The former examining magistrate in the national audience, who imprisoned the baker and his friends, has recently gone out public again. And perhaps time has affected him, because he has now changed his mind. He thinks Arnuldo can do more for peace than outside prison. If he were free, the same judge who sent him to prison in 2009 thinks would be a much more profitable figure to make peace. For this reason he proposes that punishment should be directed. Responsible and insolent. Hitz hauek ezagututa, Jesús Eguiguren PESren president ohiak were a Baltasar Garzóni eman zion. He said that the one who would have to be in prison is Garzón, not Otegi; something that sounds sensible, in view of the prevarication that this judge committed, or perhaps now recognizes. Howard Zinn, a civil rights representative and the peace movement in the United States, said in another way: "The wrong people are in jail and the wrong people are out of jail." Unfortunately, too many times this turns out to be so. Today we once again call for Arnaldo Otegi's freedom, and we also call for it in this Parliament. As has been said on more than one occasion, this House is not a last instance of appeal; therefore I do not want to make a legal reading. In addition, a legal reading of which the European Court of Human Rights is going to have the last word, a decision which we are going to take and which we are looking forward to. And it also seems that this decision of the European Court, which leaves open doors to recognizing the arbitrariness that has occurred against Arnaldo Otegi, Rafa Díez Usabiaga and the other three components of the Bateragune case. I want to make a non-legal reading, as I say, but a political one, because today we are going to take a decision that is political, a decision that is based on the majority of this House or, in other words, on the majority of the population that has lent us their votes. A decision that suggests that such persecution should never have occurred. A decision that seeks to empower Arnaldo Otegi and Rafa Díez Usabiaga, those persecuted for their political positions. Today we are going to make a decision that affects this idea of respect for all rights, for all people, throughout Euskal Herria. A decision calling for the protection and protection of the most basic civil and political rights. I'd like to thank EAJ for the addition he's introduced to, which we're very happy to protect. As an example of all these abuses which we named the winelet, as an indication, we shall yet agree with the addition which you have set before us. This protection we're going to test now, we're going to stestify Rafa Díez Usabiaga, when the punishment will be longer than the baker's. Perhaps even he will be benefited by the decision of the Human Rights Court of Europe. Today we make a decision to defend and carry out all political projects. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Eunus patriots. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u73	Good morning again. As we said, it was a correction to our corrections. Because we must follow a logic even in this legislature, because every time we've discussed the whole meeting, five names have been given. In his time the Parliament has spoken of more than once about Artun Rodríguez or Sonia Jacinto or Miren. Besides these, Rafa Díez Usabiaga and Arundo Ocera. We think that adding is included in a logic. And I'd like to point out, at least as far as Rafa Díez Usabiaga, that he's been the secretary of LAB for many years. In all the circumstances in which the patriotic left hand had been placed, and in applying an exceptional law against them, at the time when there were so many illegal siglas, Rafa Díez kept the patriotic union on his left. And not only in legal fashion, but I think he got the political qualifications. And to-day I think it is right to make witnesses of that past which is so near to it. And, on the other hand, around the centre, I agree with many things that have been said. And Mr. Arzuga said he had a political impulse. Of course, from the first moment. I think at that time... The effects of a state strategy, which had been set up in the thirtieth year, were subsequently recognised, whether it was the law of the Policical parties, hairizing, and the rest, and, I believe, when the trial of the year 2006 fails, the Social Party, the Sociistic Party directly assigns the political impulse to Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, and says: "This won't stop." And at that time he had a great fight, another trial, and it was Mr. Garzón, but he gave him a political impulse and he did what Garzón did. Now, what Garzón says. We don't know when it was true, either now or now, now and then. The point is, Eguiguen himself said he was on TV the day before yesterday that what he's supposed to be in prison is Garzón. And when there had been arrests at the centre, Eguigu's ideas and considerations joined this strategy with Rubalcaba, and then time seemed to have changed her opinion. That's why the joint process will lead to the end. At least with regard to the courts. "But as for the punishment of the prison, they shall go out at the end of the day. Then one says: If these men, desirous of giving a political impulse to their world, had they succeeded, as has been shown, and had vanished from our lives, where is the crime? Why if history has shown anything, it is true, it is true. These people, some of them left the prison, but two of them are missing, and these need to be in the street. They didn't have to go to jail, to make politics on the street. That's why we've given our opinion about the meeting process again. Most of the time, they voted for their freedom. And in this case we would like two persons to be mentioned: the one was Arnuldo, the same baker, and the other Rafa Díez Usabiaga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u75	Thank you, President. Mr. Julen Arzuaga is the person who testified yesterday in favor of the heads of ETA in Paris and is the person who thus again justified ETA's criminal actions. And he is the person who has come to defend the release of a criminal, specifically this person we have here. This is the person, this is the offender whose release requests EH Bildu. [[Shows a photo]] This is a document prepared by Covite, by the Euskadi Association of Victims of Terrorism, which summarizes who this criminal is and what his career has been over the past decades, in a summary and very concrete way. Arnaldo Otegi has justified the selective murder of 856 human beings. He entered political-military ETA in 1977, and military ETA in 1981. In 2009, the Strasbourg Court ruled that Batasuna leaders, like him, proposed a project that did not respect the rules of democracy. He was sentenced to six years in prison for kidnapping the director of the Michelin factory, Luis Abaitua. Zero is the number of times he's condemned the murders of ETA. Zero is the number of times he has recognized that killing men, women and children was unfair. He served 15 months in prison for thanking all the Gudaris who have died committing attacks. In 2011, the National Court sentenced him to 10 years in prison as a leader of a terrorist organization. Zero is the number of times he has recognized that ETA violence was unnecessary. This is the criminal, Mr. lehendakari, whose release you are going to ask for today. This is his trajectory. This is all he's done over the last few decades. This is their shameful contribution to Basque society. And you, Mr. lehendakari, are going to ask that this criminal be released, someone who has never convicted one of the crimes committed by ETA in recent decades. Another big shame that we are going to see in this Parliament today. This is the offender, therefore, whose release is going to ask nothing less than the lehendakari in today's session, a person whose fundamental trajectory has been to defend ETA's criminal actions. And that's why he's in prison, with a final sentence, with a sentence from the Spanish courts, with a sentence endorsed by the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court. It is a big shame that you again join those, ETA's friends, in asking for the release of this criminal. Over the past decades there have been dozens of anonymous people, public positions of the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, who have been persecuted by these people, by the friends of the criminals and by ETA itself. Those are the people to be recognized, those are the people to be valued: tens and tens, hundreds of people, public offices and anonymous people, who have been defending freedom and democracy in Euskadi. But you, Mr. lehendakari, are going to request the release of a criminal whose criminal record we all know. By the way, if you have any data to contribute to Wikipedia, you can do so. Perhaps some of your misdeeds that are not collected on Wikipedia can be complemented by some of you, who may first-hand know some of those misdeeds. A big shame, Mr. Lehendakari. This is the person whose release you are going to ask for today. And this is the book that collects the more than eight hundred murders committed by ETA. (Liburu bat erakutsi du) These were persecuted by ETA, Arnaldo Otegi and all those political leaders who did what they did was defend ETA's criminal ideas and justify their murders. They were persecuted by ETA, they were persecuted by Arnaldo Otegi, they no longer have a chance to defend themselves, they did not have a fair trial. What do we tell these people or their relatives, Mr. lehendakari, when you today, with your vote, are going to ask for the release of this criminal? These were persecuted by ETA, the criminal gang, Arnaldo Otegi and so many others who today still do not condemn the murders by ETA. A masculinity. Fortunately, Arnaldo Otegi is in prison. Fortunately, Rafa Diez is in prison. It is fair that they are in prison, taking into account their criminal activities, taking into account their trajectory. A shame, therefore, what you are going to do again here today. Shame on this Parliament. A shame that we have a lehendakari who is going to ask for the release of a criminal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u77	(I don't know if the book leaves it to this Member of Parliament because you are determined to increase the bibliographical list of this House.) Well, although no political system is perfect, my party continues to believe in the separation of powers that operates in democracies. We believe that it is the executive power that has to govern, the legislative power that has to make laws and control the government, and the judiciary that has to enforce laws and ensure their enforcement. We therefore seek to be respectful of the judgments of judges and courts. And we do it in all cases: when the resolutions are to our liking, when we like something less, and when we do not share them at all. And there are many cases of these. I assume that all those present in this House consider that they exercise their parliamentary responsibilities with absolute rigour and professionalism. For we have to get used to thinking that judges also try to do their work in the same way, and that we have to abide by judgments even if we are deeply disparate from their content. For this is the ability to reasonably criticize them and to resort to them until the last instance. Mr. Arnaldo Otegi and other Batasuna leaders were convicted by the National High Court on charges of recreating the structures of a political formation that had been declared illegal because of their links with the terrorist organization ETA. A decision, by the way, the latter, which was fully validated by the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights. As Mr Arzuaga recalled, the 2011 National Court conviction was ratified a year later by the Supreme Court, it is true that with a very tight majority, and in 2014 the Constitutional Court rejected the application for amparo, also with a tight majority, so Mr Otegi's lawyers brought the case to the Strasbourg Court. Today we have heard (precisely today, on the day we discussed this motion), the European Court of Human Rights ruling on whether or not the principles contained in the European Convention on Human Rights were respected in the criminal proceedings against the Batasuna leader. As far as we know, three of the defence's arguments have been rejected, and on the next one the decision has been postponed until the Government of Spain makes allegations about the action of the National Court. I am already telling you that the Socialists are going to abide by what the members of the Strasbourg Court say, in the same way that we accept their resolution on the application of the Party Law to the illegal formations of the abertzale left and we also take the judgment on the so-called Parot Doctrine. And we do so out of conviction, because we believe that it is not the task of this Parliament, or of any other, to prosecute those who prosecute, let alone supply judges and courts in their judicial role. This is the position that we make clear in our amendment and which we will always stick to. It is not, as I have pointed out, that judicial decisions cannot be criticized. I'd miss more! What we say in our amendment is that the criticisms that institutional representatives can make of court statements, within their exercise of freedom of expression, always respect the principle of separation of powers and judicial independence. On the other hand, central and Basque governments are urged, in accordance with their respective competences and acting in coordination, to promote actions that favour the social reintegration of prisoners convicted of terrorist crimes who decide to break their past and publicly assume their responsibility, recognizing before the victims and society in general the injustice of the damage caused by their actions. And finally, prisoners who have been convicted of such crimes are asked to recognize prison legality, while recalling the right to appeal against judgements that are not unappealable. There is no doubt that Mr Otegi's conviction has political significance, as did the illegalization of Batasuna, but it is very adventurous to say, as Mr Arzuaga has done, that it responds exclusively to political motivations. Following Bildu's argument in his own justification of the motion, Arnaldo Otegi's conviction would have been fully justified in 2004 or 2005, but not in 2009, when the abertzale left began to turn towards politics without guns. Well, we don't think so. The Bateragune conviction was due to the existence of a law prohibiting the continuation of formations that had been illegalized and dissolved because of their links with a terrorist organization, and three judicial bodies, three, found that the convicted persons violated that prohibition. And you may or may not agree with the Parties Act, the application of which to Batasuna was deemed necessary and fully in line with the Human Rights Convention by the Strasbourg Court, as I have indicated before. And one may disagree with the rulings of the National Court, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court on the Bateragune case, which, as has been recalled here, was decided by seven votes in favour and five against. As you have recalled, it was one of the rapporteurs, Vice-President Adela Asúa, who cast a particular vote, and I would like to recall that she was a judge proposed by this party, by the Socialist Party of Euskadi, to the Constitutional Court, and finally elected Vice-President of the Constitutional Court. But from that discrepancy in judicial decisions between the various members of the courts, to the conclusions of reducing everything to reasons of political motivation, I think there is a long stretch. I can accept that the fact that we have been living in our country for four years without attacks or threats, specifically since ETA ceased its violent activities, causes important sectors of society to be shocked by Arnaldo Otegi's prison stay. But that's another issue other than the one we're dealing with here. Because, entering into political motivations, we could also talk about why Euskal Herria Bildu is focusing his entire campaign on Mr Otegi's release, which will happen in any case within five months, and he has forgotten about Mr Rafa Díez Usabiaga. It has had to be remembered by the PNV in the amendment which supports its initiative. Nor would it be out of time to point out that Arnaldo Otegi could have been released from prison long before he had taken up the possibilities currently offered by prison legislation. And it has had and continues to have the opportunity to show ETA prisoners with their example the way they have to go to benefit from reintegration measures and shorten their sentence. He did not wish to exercise that right; he was entitled to do so. But let us remember that there are ETA prisoners, sentenced to far more severe penalties for murder, who have gone that way and are now at liberty or with attenuated prison. And for all these reasons the Basque Socialists are not going to support the motion put to us by Bildu, and of course we are going to vote for the amendment we have tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arzuaga, you, with that flat tone that you are trying to give to your speeches, that tone of speaker, yet you have not managed to cover at all the falsehood of your statements. Because all your lecture given here (which, as has also been said, is the beginning of the electoral campaign, of the next election campaign for the Bildu bench in the figure of Otegi's exaltation) has been a truffle conference of absolute falsehoods. What he does is to show what his intention is: his intention is to falsify the past, to tell a past that has nothing to do with what happened, and to falsify judicial decisions as well, such as the ink of the squid, saying that the quality of Spanish democracy, and therefore of its three powers, is absolutely low. True, it is not new that Otegi's freedom is called for in this House. Just over a year ago, on October 23rd of last year, or two years ago, we were asking for something similar. The same, in 2013. Nor is it new – and you have said so – that you intend to turn this House into an appeals court. And they do so by making political arguments, because the legal ones have made them in the courts of justice, which is where the judiciary resides, and because those arguments were insufficient, as those arguments do not produce the resolutions that you want to happen (not the just ones, the ones that you want to happen), so they bring them here to bring this Parliament to justice. And I already know that what I am going to say is going to fall apart, because it is still difficult for you to assume certain democratic principles, but you have been told here: the separation of powers and judicial independence are indisputable premises in a rule of law. And in this rule of law it is up to the judges, the judges, and not this Parliament, to issue judicial decisions. It is the judges who decide the reasons why a person is or is not in prison, or why a person may remain or be released from prison. It is not this Parliament that will decide, no matter how much you wish, because thanks to the help of the Basque Nationalist Party, if that were the case, if this Parliament were to decide, Mr Otegi would already be on the street. But it is the legal reasons, legally substantiated, and based on conclusive evidence, even if you say no, that give rise to judicial decisions. And of course, a judicial resolution in democracy is critical. Of course. Of course. What can no longer be done, which is what you do, is to put in sulfide the quality of that judicial power. That is, when the sentences are not favorable to them. Because you were talking about the sentence being taken by three to two. And the sentences that are favorable to them and are also taken by three to two, those do not have democratic quality either, or those, as they really agree with their postulates, do they? And it's that in democracy, when a court is composed of equals, everyone can give their opinion, but in the end the majority opinion, which is shown by numbers, is the one that ends up saying what the meaning of the sentence is. And judgments must be criticized with minimal legal arguments; not with political arguments, which is what has been done here. Mr Otegi, as has been said here, was sentenced to six and a half years in prison for a basic crime of integration into a terrorist organization, for trying to rebuild the illegal Batasuna through that process that has been called Bateragune. And, as those who have spoken before me have done here, it must be remembered that this Court of Human Rights which you always awoke when it suits you, and which today has awoke it here, that same court, the same one, was the one who said that the illegalization of Batasuna was absolutely justified. The same. But, of course, what I'm saying to you: judicial decisions are only fair – just like what court it is, even if it is the Human Rights Court – when they satisfy our candidates. And you are trying to exalt the figure of Mr. Otegi, someone who did not condemn, who has never condemned, even criticized ETA's criminal activity. But it is not that I have never rejected it: this man of peace, as some have called it, also has a past to participate in the terrorist band ETA. This man of peace, when he delivered his first political speech in 1995, points out that the admirable and only organization that for the past thirty or forty years has led a movement for freedom has been ETA. That man of peace, when he was murdered by the member of this Parliament Fernando Buesa, with whom he shared debates, was unable to raise his voice, he said nothing. Until the previous week, he'd been arguing with him, and he didn't condemn his murder. Moreover, far from condemning him, all he did was criticize the rupture of the government pact that he maintained with the Basque Nationalist Party, and point out that what was being done was to submit to the media and political pressure of Madrid and Paris. And that political decisions could not be made at the dawn of visceral reactions. That is, condemning an attack and opposing an attack is a visceral reaction that cannot be succumbed to. He also pointed out at that time that no one had more moral authority in this country than the abertzale left, because they were the ones who had contributed most through the use of democratic channels. It seems like a satire, like your previous intervention, Mr Arzuaga, a joke of bad taste, which would provoke the smile when listening to that joke, if we weren't talking about something so tragic and so serious. In relation to the victims of ETA, he has apologized to them, but not for the attacks: he has asked them in case any of their statements could have offended them. That is the man of peace, and that is who you are trying to make political reference to. And, as I said, in September 2011, the National Court condemned Arnaldo Otegi for wanting to re-create Batasuna, ETA's political arm. The Supreme Court ratified this sentence in 2012. In 2014, the Constitutional Court rejected the possibility of granting conditional release to those convicted of the so-called Bateragune case; therefore, it decided to remain in prison pending a resolution. In the face of this resolution, it is true that Mr Lehendakari himself hastened to say that these people had not been imprisoned for that reason, and I asked him in this House for those statements. Because, as I say, the reason why these people were held in prison and served their sentences is to try to rebuild an illegal party that had been considered part of the ETA terrorist gang. It is true that there were more statements, like that whole process was a nonsense, that was based on clues and assumptions... But the Constitutional Court itself denied that there were indications or assumptions that had led to the conviction; it pointed out that the constitutional requirements had been respected to consider the presumption of innocence angry, and it pointed out literally that it was not the fact of sharing the secessionist objectives of ETA that was conclusive in inferring that they were acting under the direction of the terrorist organization, but that it was the fact that, as it was credited by different evidence, its action was entirely coincidental in terms of achieving political objectives, as well as in terms of the use of violent and illicit means to achieve them, which is what defines terrorist organizations. True, Mr. Garzón has now said that Otegi out of jail could do for peace more than inside. Apart, as I say, from Mr Otegi's dubious work for peace, a judge should know more than anyone else that judicial decisions only have to take into account legal criteria, strictly legal, and in accordance with them decide on the duration or possible reduction of a sentence, and those who have been charged with responsibility should be required to do so. I'm running out of time, 'cause I'm running out of time. What you want – I have said it on other occasions in this House – is an abertzale justice, a justice that gives you reason, and that is only justice when it is given to you, and that, if not, it is not justice. Otherwise, it is not justice, and there is no democracy. And I want to end with one thing. In this campaign that you are doing, with the iconography of the T-shirt, of the number (and then we can talk more about it), trying to compare it with the pacifist leaders, I will only tell you one thing. You're talking about political persecution. Look, no, political persecution on that bench. Those of that bench, we couldn't defend our ideas if we weren't taking two people behind so they wouldn't shoot us. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u80	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collectors. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u81	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. To respond to some of the things that have been said here. Mr. Maneiro says it's a big shame to request the release of Arnaldo Otegi. I imagine that precisely, if that is what Adela Asua demanded with that statement that the facts that had led her to prison, those objective facts, were absolutely inconsistent, she will also be in that area of capital shame that you want to establish. It seems that if you don't say words, not say words (it's no longer the problem what you say, but what you don't say), that is, if you don't reproduce words that UPyD says or that maybe the People's Party says, then that would be a reason for imprisonment. What I say will, in any case, be the cause of political debate, of the debate on ideas, but never of a criminal repression (yes, repression). You speak in your amendment of a request to the State Security Corps and Forces to redouble their efforts. What do you mean? To double in police resources, to double the arrests of politicians, to double the repression of this country, as if it had not had enough? His irresponsible position again I think he's giving him away. Mrs Llanos tells us that we do not protest when the sentences are favourable to us, I imagine that when in this kind of process a resolution of acquittal, filing or declaration of innocence is obtained. Of course, you may consider these to be favourable sentences, but for us any process that is sustained in the violation of basic civil and political rights, for us that process is unfavorable. With its mere beginning, with its mere beginning, with the arrests, with the acts of investigation, with the statements that are taken from them, with the oral trial, in all these cases we are being given an unfavourable judgment before the very drafting of the sentence and the sentence that in most cases is paired up. Mr. Pastor tells me that we seem to have forgotten something when we brought only Arnaldo Otegi's claim. I said, it is an example, perhaps it is the case that best symbolizes what has happened in this country, but we do not forget anything. We do not forget Rafa Díez Usabiaga, nor do we forget Rodriguez, Jacinto, Zabaleta..., nor do we yet forget all those people who are in prison for exercising civil and political rights: people of the summaries of 18/98, of Gestoras, of Askatasuna, of Segi, which I believe should also be reflected in the decision we are going to adopt today. We don't forget anything. In its amendment it introduces that prisoners convicted of terrorist offences must break with their past in order to obtain certain benefits. Of course, an immediate past, that of Mr Arnaldo Otegi, who just before entering prison initiates a political manoeuvre of silence in this country so that all political projects can be defended by democratic means. Is that what Mr. Arnaldo Otegi must abjure? Should you abjure the ideas that led you to prison? How can you work with authorities to detect or perhaps arrest other ETA members? How can you recognize the damage caused?, by your statements? I think he does. I think he does. But what is the harm done, beyond it? It tells me that it is a trial that has a political dimension but does not arise from a political impulse. And I say to him, perhaps paraphrasing Montesquieu, that an injustice done to the individual is a threat made against society as a whole. It is true that there have been other injustices, and it is true that many threats have been identified about this citizenship, but it is you who often give us lessons from not matching or comparing injustices. Let's go to the case, let's go to the case: Arnaldo Otegi's case can only be understood in terms of political revenge. We have spoken more than once of the quality of Spanish justice. We have several times said that the independence of Spanish justice is equal to Iran. And I'm also going to say that in Gallarardón's time another post came back. We've discussed it, and we've made decisions in this parliament, with the ability that the Spanish tribunals have to invade here in political matters. We have rejected the beauty of justice and the judicialization of politics from the Spanish courts who do not know the context here. Perhaps you think Spanish justice works well, but that's your problem, because there are few people here who understand that. This, Spanish justice, is your problem. And there is our need: to create a Basque justice, which will work according to the principles of social reality, the justice which the judges who know this social reality exercise. For this change, Arnuldo Ocera and Rafa Díez Usabiaga will be in the first line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u82	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u83	I didn't mention it in the first session, but later I saw that the Polytic Party Act had been mentioned twice. And what I'm trying to remind you of is what kind of context all this was born. I said it started in the '90s. But 2000. In the year of December you sign the Social Party and the Poptular Party, the pacto Antiterrorist, and after certain murders, and the law of the Police parties is from 2002. What's going on? In 2001, there are elections in this country, and there were results, 33 or 32. Gau hartan bertan, Alderdi Popularrak esaten du: "Let's perfect the project". To perfect the project was to remove the tool from the Political Parties Act. And the Parties Act was passed in June 2002. And I believe that on 26 August (26 August) your ladies and gentlemen had a plenary session in Congress, because the Government was already going to urge the illegalization of certain political formations, to take action, with the law in hand, before the Constitutional Court. That same day, Judge Garzón starts with his cars. That same day. He doesn't wait till the next day. That same day. There was a fight for who came before and who was the most effective in the counter-terrorism task. And I end up with a relationship. Mr Eguiguren met before and after, and referred to Mr Garzón as well. Judge Garzón, who started with that 18/98, et cetera, today, who wants to listen to him tells him that the Bateragune theme was "a headquarter of Alfredo". Alfredo's head office. Of course, it is Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, and the stubbornness or political impulse has had its effects. And then Mr. Garzón talks about Arnaldo Otegi's need or fitness on the street, because he can do more for peace. Well, well, if that's the judicial independence there has been, if you want to deny again and again that there was political momentum here, and that after the failed process of 2006, when ETA breaks the ceasefire, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party holds someone responsible... Not anyone who has committed the crimes, of course, the one responsible for the attacks, but politically he needs to do something, and he finds himself in the Bateragune process. But reality has denied it. The reality shows that those who were acting under Bateragune's umbrella were creating a radically different scenario than they knew. That's the reality! And I think it's a lot closer to the truth than the other story, a story in which you have to constantly justify decisions that are made in the political sphere and then have your judicial dress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u85	Thank you, President. Very brief. Otegi and Rafa Díez Usabiaga are convicted by the National Court, ratified by the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, and are therefore in prison, fortunately. We're fine, we're happy about it, we think it's fair. They are in prison for crimes committed, crimes that are perfectly defined in the Criminal Code. And, given his entire decades' trajectory, we effectively reaffirm that it is right for a person with this trajectory to be where he is today. It's fair. And what is a big shame, I insist, is that the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu call for the release of this criminal, and that we have a lehendakari who calls for the release of a criminal. There is repeated talk of political motivations, of political impulse... What was Otegi's long-standing political motivation? The political motivation, the political work, the political impulse of Otegi was to accompany ETA, to justify ETA, to allow ETA to exist, to extend ETA's life. This was the fundamental work Otegi did for years. And as a result of this work there have been more than eight hundred murders throughout the country; tens, hundreds of people who were killed as a result of this work carried out by Otegi and his friends. This is the reality, and this is what can be said. Not one of those murders was convicted by Otegi. Not one of them. Not one. And not only were they not condemned, but they were justified in various ways and with different statements. That's the reality. And as a result, these characters ask for their release, as a result of which they worked in favor of ETA. We are therefore glad that these people are still in prison. Mr Arzuaga says that Otegi is starting a political manoeuvre so that all political projects can be defended. No, I'm sorry. Democratic political projects could perfectly defend themselves. With enough difficulty in the case of the political projects of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which had to be defended under police protection, as a result of the criminal actions of ETA that Otegi always justified. This is the reality. Political projects could therefore be defended, except for the political projects defended by the People's Party and the Socialist Party. This is, therefore, the reality. Mr. Lehendakari, do you consider yourself a social referent or a political referent to a person with Mr. Otegi's trajectory? Do you consider Mr. Rafa Díez Usabiaga's career as a social, trade union or political referent? Because this is what Mr Egibar has come to pose. Do you consider these to be references? For us the referents are the victims of terrorism, the anonymous citizens who for years faced ETA, the people who tried to defend their ideas with voice and word. Those are our references. Our references could never have been the ones that justified ETA. Never, never in life. And that is what your spokesman said again today in this House. Not only did he not criticize or condemn ETA's criminal actions, but he justified them. This is what Otegi said after the murder of José Luis López de Lacalle, this is what he said on May 8, 2000: "With this ETA puts on the table the role of the media and certain professionals who pose a strategy of manipulation." And of this person who said that at that time, you ask for your release. As I say, a capital shame. And indeed, yes, what our amendment proposes is that we urge the State Security Corps and Forces and all State institutions, of course, to redouble their efforts to arrest all members or collaborators of the terrorist gang who are still fleeing today. Indeed, this is what we ask: that all criminals be detained and that justice be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u86	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u87	Thank you, President. Look, Mr Arzuaga, I do not deny either you or anyone the ability to criticize judicial decisions. What I'm telling you is that you can't pretend to turn a legislative chamber into a kind of last instance of justice, to ask for what hasn't been given you by justice. Because that's not what you do in a rule of law. You asked me what else Arnaldo Otegi has to do than what he did in that statement. For I suppose you know it perfectly well: exactly the same thing that you have done a few floors of the Nanclares road that you have welcomed the prison benefits and that you are enjoying them right now. And I want to believe myself, really, when you say you want to do a self-criticism and a review of your past. But they stay in that statement. Because four days ago, when you had the opportunity to support a text in which we only remembered that in this country there had been murders for thinking differently, you even refused to have that word, that phrase, that expression, appeared. Well, honestly, these kinds of attitudes say very little about sincerity or real possibilities. I do not know what problem you have to really make that self-criticism and that critical review of what has happened in this country. So, I think they'd have to make him look at it. Because justice can be criticized. And at that time there were other political leaders also prosecuted (I want to remind the lehendakari Ibarretxe, Patxi López and Rodolfo Ares), who were in a judicial process for carrying out a political activity that consisted at that time of meeting with representatives of the Abertzale left to advance towards the end of terrorism. And we did not go out to report to the courts of justice, although we did not share the admission to the proceedings of that complaint which did have political intent. And we didn't set up any public show, like others did, by the way. What we did was gallantly defend what we had done, exercise our right to defend. And fortunately, sanity and common sense were imposed. And we didn't do anything else. And that same performance that we have performed when it has touched us is the one we ask you to exercise exactly the same. Look, Mr Egibar, I had no intention of referring to the Basque Nationalist Party on this occasion, but you make it very difficult for me. You make it very difficult for me. Because it has come out here, as usual, to tell us the theory of global conspiracy, and I would like to remind you that you based your entire strategy of opposition to the legislative measures made by the then government (or governments), in particular to the Party Act, your entire strategy was based on violating the European Convention on Human Rights, and then you forgot that that same court validated and said that the adoption of the Party Act was timely. That's what you forget. You forget that, yes, because that issue has already disappeared. Since they did not give you the reason in their argument, you forget the matter. And I think they should be a little more cautious when it comes to making some political expressions and always talking about the appropriate political context, obviously always to get into the relevant victim phase. Because it's not. Be a little serious about the issues! A little serious. Forget a little their ideology or that intention to always stay well with everyone, often with these gentlemen (not because they love them more or less, but so that they do not pass political revenue the opposite), and do things seriously. And when you don't give them reason, admit they don't have it. And when the Party Law, which you have criticized to the point of satiety, turns out to be endorsed by a court, no less than the Human Rights Law, it has the gallantness to go out and recognize it. Because I'm about to hear you once recognize that that happened as it happened and not as you wanted it to happen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u88	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u89	Thank you again, Madam President. I will begin precisely where Mr. Pastor has finished. Indeed, you, the Basque Nationalist Party, have always shown yourselves to be against the Party Law, which became a necessary law, and a law which, no matter how much you say it, and say it very loudly, until the European Court of Human Rights removed their reason, did not violate, did not violate that freedom of assembly and association. No, no, The judgement itself stated that it was not intended to prohibit the defence of ideas or doctrines that question the constitutional framework, but to reconcile freedom and pluralism with respect for human rights and the protection of democracy. And from European courts it came to be recognized that the terrorist band ETA was not only the command that shot the neck or the command that put the bomb, not: that there was a political arm, a political arm associated with the terrorist band ETA, that was in charge of bringing to the institutions that strategy of ETA. And that was said by the European authorities. But you want the political context – and that is going against the separation of powers – to determine what the rest of the powers have to do. You don't want any arrests, because you're jamming. No, listen, when someone commits a crime, you have to stop him. You don't want court proceedings, because you're blocking the process. No, no, When a person commits a crime, he must be tried, and if there is sufficient evidence to find him guilty, put him in prison, and if he wants to leave prison and be released on parole, he must meet the requirements that are legally established and that we have all given ourselves to be able to leave prison. But no one can, by virtue of a political context or a political idea or political pressure, skip the law. Which is what you want. Are you talking about a justice here, judges here, those same judges who had to go with escort here, here? And you talk about a justice here. And Mr. Grande-Marlaska, who is a Basque judge? You don't know the reality here, either, I guess. Or is it that this one is politically contaminated and then, even if he is a judge here, his judicial decisions are not valid either? Look, I told you before. It is that you believe in one justice, your justice, the abertzale justice; that justice according to which the State Security Forces and Bodies commit torture and extract statements with torture; the investigating judges commit torture and obtain statements through torture; and the hearings, as well as the Supreme Court. Everything, everything is contaminated, in all, in all resolutions. The process is flawed because, as I say to you, you are the ones who set the parameters of what democracy is and what justice is, and anyone who does not submit to those parameters is not a Democrat, and of course does not impart justice. And before, we couldn't even do politics. Because, look, you guys, of course with the lord... They only name Mr. Otegi because they have a campaign. But that's what they're... You're marketing experts! If at the concert he was copied, when Mandela was wearing the number, you copied it and put Otegi's prisoner number! And you've tried to compare it to Mandela over and over again. Over and over again. What they don't count is that Mandela's party gave them the door in their nostrils when after the T-4 attack they didn't say mu, and Otegi didn't say mu. And it seemed to you... what you said, those other injustices that have been here... It is necessary to have courage to call injustice to the shots to the back of the head, to the bombs, to the pressure to which they have been subjected to the whole Basque society. That's the injustices. Well, they got the door in their nostrils. And I'll tell you something else. You're trying to show that Mandela, if he lived and came to Euskadi, would be on his side. Don't be mistaken. Don't be mistaken. Mandela wouldn't be on his side. Because, look, what Mandela was doing was defending the blacks subjected to apartheid, and here the blacks we've been subjected to apartheid are that bench, and you were the whites who were jealous of that apartheid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u90	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The discussion is ended, and we shall put it to the vote, as we have already observed, first in order to add the addition which the Eupric patriot has introduced. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 48; opponents 25; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u91	It's accepted. Next, we vote for the original text of the EH bill as well as the other team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 48; opponents 25; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u92	As a result, the original text has also been accepted. I interrupt the whole meeting here until about four-fifteen. The meeting was interrupted at two o'clock in the afternoon and eleven. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-five.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u93	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "Euscal Socialists made the same plan as the legislatures, about the destructation of Radio Vitoria. Discipline and final resolution. The number on which the proposal has been made: Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, it's your word to introduce and get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, good evening to all of you. We have to report bad management of the EITB board again. In this case, we have to talk about the situation of Radio Vitoria. What we shall say is not new: In June 2013 this legislature had to appear in favor of this Arbatua radio, with the first attack on this radio by the EIB manager of the present year. Two and a half years later, we must repeat what has been said again, for the course of this problem has not been corrected; on the contrary, it has gone deep in error. On 6 June this Parliament urged, inter alia, the management of EITB that any measure which might affect jobs should lead to agreement with the staff representatives. Today, November 26, 2015, we can see that the ERE that was imposed on Eusko Irratia and that affected Radio Vitoria was not much less consensual. On the contrary, it inaugurated a phase of unprecedented social conflict in the public undertaking of Radio Televisión Vasca, which still remains in force today. Because those measures affected the staff of Radio Vitoria, reducing the number of workers by 20% in two years, but those measures have also damaged the professional performance of those who continue to work on Radio Vitoria. Less people to meet the same needs; conclusion: they stop doing things that should be done, and others are done with less dedication. All this could, logically, result in less quality of service, which is only pallied by the strength of the staff, and this is a step towards the gradual dismantling of the dean station of Álava. For us, the Basque Socialists, and of course for the Alavese Socialists, the difference in this matter with the leadership of EITB has a structural and historical character. Our idea, our concept of Radio Vitoria is diametrically opposed to the current direction of the public body. In my opinion, the lack of respect that this direction is showing towards our station has to do with ignorance or historical contempt for the work and meaning of Radio Vitoria. I am going to be allowed by your ladies and gentlemen to make some history, because I think it will be good to contextualize the debate on its fair terms. With the recovery of self-government, the Basque Government considered it necessary to structure media coverage that would meet its communication objectives. The purchase of written media was not carried out, it was not timely, it was sufficient that the party supporting the Government could acquire or create and subsequently compete in that difficult market. The view of the Government was then set in the audiovisual media. In the case of television, for obvious reasons, there was only one remedy (by the way, as one of its first directors said, for nationalists, made by nationalists). In the case of radios it was different: it started from a market much more local than that of the other media. Basically we can say that the market for our radios continues to have great strength today in that local area. Aware of all this, the Basque Government tried in the early 1980s to use three radio stations located in the capitals of the historical territories to structure its own network of local public radio stations. Radio Bilbao and Radio San Sebastián were the property of the Chain Ser, which did not have among its plans to get rid of them and which, in any case, would have had an unattainable price. Radio Vitoria was something else: owned by the then Caja Municipal de Vitoria, which had no greater interest in keeping ahead of the radio and which, therefore, was willing to sell, in addition to at an affordable price. It is from this moment when the group of Basque public radio stations begins to be gestated. Then Euskadi Irratia was created in Basque and Radio Euskadi in Spanish, to complete the network of public radios. It is an idea extended to the popular level, and corroborated by the audience, that Radio Euskadi is the radio of Bilbao and Bizkaia, that Eusko Irratia has more presence in Gipuzkoa, and that the radio of Vitoria and Álava is Radio Vitoria. Let's go back to the same thing: radios meet local criteria, even if it is the alavesa that most consolidated has this character. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that any of you will be spared that a rather widespread feeling among the people of Alaves is that the media of EITB despises this territory. All you have to do is witness a ball game at the White Party, to hear repeatedly the slogan "ETB, Bilboko telebista", shouted at his cameras. I think it is a reality that on Basque public television the news about Álava is relegated behind those of Navarra or Iparralde, for example. And I'm not just referring to sports news, where Alavés and Baskonia don't occupy the space they deserve. I am remembering right now a news issued in ETB about a past harvest, in which the information was not issued from Rioja Alavesa, as would have been logical, given the importance of this in the region: the news about the beginning of the harvest was transmitted from Baigorri, which, without taking merit from the wine produced there, I do not think that it can be considered by far not a wine-growing area of the importance of the Alavesa region. What I'm saying is all the more hurtful when all of Alavesa's citizens contribute with their taxes to support the public environment. Why is it more necessary to spend on correspondents, networks, broadcasts or personnel to report Iparralde, politics in France or Navarre, than in Vitoria and Álava? That is why we demand that Radio Vitoria be allocated the budgetary part and the technical and human means sufficient to continue its information work, aimed at those who pay these taxes. This isn't a whim. It responds to the criterion that the public broadcaster must perform its task before the public broadcaster essentially. It is the only one that offers a generalist and local programming. The success of Vitoria's audience is due to this criterion, that is to say, closeness and empathy with Vitoria and Álava; a radio that has a trajectory of eighty-one years of service to this citizenship, a radio with which the majority of Alaves and Alaves are identified, a medium that forms part of the urban and cultural landscape of Vitoria and Álava, and which is included as another element of their own self-esteem. A territory like Álava and the capital of Euskadi deserve to have a private and public channel of information. There's no doubt about it. Radio Vitoria is a local, generalist and public information channel, which requires the means to remain. It is also perfectly demonstrated that this space is not covered by the other radio stations of the public autonomous group. I insist, it is necessary to strengthen Radio Vitoria and not to dismantle it, as seems to be the intention of the current EITB management. As I said, in 2013 we started to cut staff, and despite the majority position of this House, they are deepening in that cut, that if we don't straighten out the course will end with our alavesa radio. Let me make this very clear: the Socialists of Alava and Basques are convinced that the current leadership wants Radio Euskadi and Eusko Irratia to absorb Radio Vitoria. The strategy is very clear: in these two and a half years there are 20% fewer staff on Radio Vitoria. In addition, from this staff, some people devote much of their working time to working for Radio Euskadi. Saving the connections for information and night programs, the rest, from six in the morning to nine in the evening, Radio Vitoria must continue to offer this public information and entertainment service. Apart from the information, programs produced by the radio itself that are connected to the Alavesa reality. Radio Vitoria's own workers complain, for example, that cultural information has become orphaned, because the professional specializing in this subject has gone on to perform other functions. In principle, a measure was taken in 2013 that was the background of the ERE that would come later. The non-renewal of the contracts of several professionals with long experience in Radio Vitoria was that milestone. It seemed like an isolated decision, but it has been shown that it was due to a perfectly planned strategy, which leads us to a reduced local programming, for example, between 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m., and then connect with Radio Euskadi.. Less programming, less own production, less quality in the offer, this is the future that awaits Radio Vitoria, if the management does not change its course. Because what EITB's management intends is to relativize the function of the alavesa radio and try to prove its inviolability. And his staff will have nothing but to integrate into Eusko Irratia and Radio Euskadi, or to go to the street. Against this is what most of the professionals, people with a long experience, who made their position clear on 25 September and who have repeated at the door of this Parliament today at nine o'clock in the morning, have said. Honestly, we believe that Vitoria and Álava do not deserve this; that the professionals who make Radio Vitoria possible every day should be stimulated by the leadership, and not abandoned by it. We have presented this non-law proposal to support Radio Vitoria, so that it is endowed with sufficient budgetary and human resources, so that both the information and the entertainment it produces continue to have the label of quality, prestige, rigour, professionalism, close to its surroundings, which has characterized it in these eighty-one years of existence. We have brought this debate to Parliament because we continue to believe in the need for Vitoria and Álava to have a public information service appropriate to their reality. We want the principles that inspired the Basque radio-television entity's creation law to be respected. We demand the management of EITB to comply with the mandates emanating from this Parliament, with all, but in this case with regard to the definition of the structural staff; to ensure the continuity of Radio Vitoria in the terms expressed, to have the appropriate staff, to be negotiated with the radio workers. This is what is expressed in the compromise amendment that we Socialists have signed with EH Bildu and to which the PNV group has also joined. I believe that the Socialists show every day the importance we attach to the agreements, and when these are possible we accept them and celebrate them. That is why the acceptance of this resolution by the Nationalist Group takes it as a rectification of what EITB's management is doing on Radio Vitoria and on the whole of the entity. We take it as a change forced by its inability to solve the labor and management problem it has. A problem which, as I said earlier, was demonstrated this morning by the demonstration of Radio Vitoria's workers before this Parliament. I hope that the adherence to this resolution of the party supporting the Government, of the only party supporting the leadership of EITB in this House, will bring about a change in the attitude and direction that that leadership is taking. I hope that the sum of your signature and your votes to this transaction will mean that what is said here will be fulfilled. Be assured that we will ensure this, and if not, we will again insist on this House with more initiatives in this regard. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u96	Good afternoon, everyone. Rudio Vitoria is a plain communicative reference to the Agra, which, on the side of the audience, confesses, is close to him who has made local information, which is more difficult for the rarese to find out in other ways, and, beyond that, has become a symbol of the same country. That's how his 82-year-old careers and years confirm it. It's not the first time we've been talking about Radio Vitoria in this Chamber. In May 2013, the direction of EIB in the United States of the EIB, announced by the restoration of Radio Vitoria, was the cause of anxiety. And this led us in June, as in several institutions of Araba, to discuss the matter, and to summon the EIB manager's original intentions, and to restore the state, in order to weaken the service, as well as to compromise the survival of the radio itself. And we all joined together in this, all of us put together to the value of Radio Vitoria. To be sure, there were fewer dismissions than those which had just been foretold. Later on, in April 2014, two other places were outraged by the public meeting of EIB's Department. And since then, some other reasons have been lost. And at that time the management expressed her engagement with Radio Vitoria, and reduced the engagement to three o'clock. On one hand, he said he would keep the mark on the radio. On the other hand, he would keep programming without reducing local radio hours. And thirdly, he mentioned that he would also maintain the structural plan. On seeing the progress of two or three years, we believe that in this development there has been some influence on the work of Radio Vitoria, and that the decisions received have been somewhat weakened and damaged by Radio Vitoria. In June 2013, on the other proposal of this Chamber, any decision on personal or structure was previously made to discuss with the representatives of the workers and the representatives of the administration, while the strategic plan at EITBn was at that time continued. In February 2015, however, a new decision was made in this Chamber. And then, almost unanimously, the direction of the direction was called to determine the structural planilla of the EIB team by means of the regulatory suggestions derived from the public calling of the Eus radio. And we think that the key is there, and the key remains, and if we do not do it, we shall find ourselves again with such questions. That's why we've got it both in our correction and even in the middle that we agreed on. It is necessary to determine the planilla of all the EIB teams, the structured planet, and, derived from it, it will be necessary to determine the planile plan for each of the societatrate companies (ala fact, Eitbnet, ETBn, Euskitadi on the radio, Radiokadin and Radium Vitoria). This question follows, and as long as it is not solved, the matter will continue. We have seen from this point of view that they have not even begun, and that, according to what they say from within the house, there is no sign of them. Therefore, in our middle course, we must, in my second place, receive this request. If you don't do that, the problems will continue and, like this year, we'll have to continue to put thousands and thousands of dollars in the budget to face the damages of the personal person. But beyond personality there's another problem in Radio Vitoria. If we look at the budgets from 2013 to this day, we can see that though the budget of ETB has increased eight million, it has no reflection at all in Radio Vitoria, and if it is simple, there has been a decline in the budget of Radio Vitoria. We believe that it is necessary to change this, if we place Radio Vitoria in value, and all agree that Radio Vitoria has to do it again. So, what are the decisions that have been made for a period of two or three years or longer? We think it's very obvious that it's an enormous overestimated burden over personal editorism, or rather in the substitutions of technicians, and directly the programming of afternoons and weekends. The decisions taken have been affected in the work of Radio Vitoria in function, in everydayity, in the negative effect. We don't know the direction of the board with Radio Vitoria. Sometimes, to get rid of what is not convenient, he lets himself die instinctively, with the homeopatic doses, little by little, without much fuss. We do not know whether this is the stake of the management, but we know that it is possible that it should not be a sound wager. "EH Collector for Radio Vitoria wants to show a clear attitude towards the Arabic society." Hence, in the middle term which has been discussed, we make a direct appeal to the direction of the EIB. Let him fix EIB's structured plan for once, and socitate with the workers' representatives, so that he can adjust the planillas as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u97	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u98	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. In 2013, there was a debate on the issue that we are debating again today when we announced the reduction of ten contracts on Radio Vitoria, a measure that was subsequently implemented despite the majority rejection by this Parliament and the Alaves institutions. This involved a 20 or 25 % staff cut, an unmatched cut on any of the other public group stations. This new initiative by the Socialist Group is essentially intended to bring the staffing back to this point before the 2013 cut. Let's say the rest is advertising, propaganda and election campaign. This is in particular the basis of the initiative. And we said and said at the time, in 2013, that Radio Vitoria has been performing for many years a public service function that now, by an absurd and arbitrary decision of the EITB management, can be broken. And we said that it makes no sense or any logic that a pen should reduce its staff by 25%, and that it makes much less sense that this threat of layoffs from the new EITB director should be made without any study or reasoned proposal that supports and justifies its decisions. No study on Radio Vitoria, let alone on the wholeness of the EITB group, which was what we asked in that debate from the director general of EITB: that the new direction of public television radio present us within three months a study of reorganization and resizing of the group. This was what we asked, because we thought at that time that it was necessary. And today we still think about it. Because we do believe that we need to slim down, resize EITB, but not precisely on Radio Vitoria, a station that does comply with what we believe should be a public radio of quality and public service, beyond the fact that everything can be improved. And we were giving some ideas on where to cut down on the hundred posts appointed to fingers, heads and heads, we were saying, that they control the whole group, that they represent 10% of the current staff and that they represent 4.5 million expenditure; the delegations of Pamplona and Baiona, that they involve several million more expenditure to report things that most Basque citizens do not care about, or the television channels, through a restructuring more than necessary. And we said you can't do things like that. And we said that before that we will have to do a serious and rigorous study of the whole group, of the staff of the whole group; of the expenses of purchases, of the expenses of programs that nobody sees or hears or interests, of realities that have nothing of public service, of the participation in some companies more than doubtful, of the oversized and very well paid staff. This is what we basically said two years ago and today we continue to defend. With regard to the compromise amendment and with regard to some of the things that have been said during the debate, we basically agree with what is proposed, in addition to the fact that we had tabled an amendment in its entirety, in which we wanted to recall that the commission remains to be set up in order to analyse the EITB in depth and to take the necessary measures to try to recover an EITB that can be considered to actually carry out a quality public service. That initiative in which we called for the creation of that committee was approved a few months ago, and it has not yet met. Therefore, it is a matter that remains outstanding. But, beyond that, we obviously basically share what is pointed out in that transactional. In any case, I believe that an overall view of the outstanding issues which, in our view, remain urgent today needs to be made. Every day that happens is more urgent. A number of measures need to be taken in relation to EITB, and since the Counsellor is here, I would like to explain what those measures are which we consider absolutely essential. The law of EITB needs to be reformed. The way in which the Director General of EITB is elected needs to be changed. We need to depoliticize his address. The board of directors of EITB must be depoliticised. We have to resize the structure of the entity. We have to rationalize the entity. It must be depoliticized (to this day it is evident that it remains an instrument at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party), and it must be made to comply with the principles which it should comply with and which remain unfulfilled to this day: professionalism, information objectivity, truthfulness, or information plurality. Madam Counsellor, since you are here in this plenary, paying close attention to the things we are saying, the politicization of EITB today is a shame and a shame. To this day, EITB is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party, and this must be radically and urgently changed. We can observe some of the events that have occurred during the last few hours, even during the last few days. EITB has decided to leave UPyD out of the debates of the electoral campaign, despite the fact that UPyD has representation in the Basque Parliament and despite the fact that UPyD has representation in the Congress of Deputies. Obviously, this decision we are going to appeal. Throughout this week, Radio Euskadi has decided to conduct a round of interviews with the different Basque political parties: United Left, People's Party, Basque Socialist Party, Bildu and Basque Nationalist Party, and has decided to leave UPyD out again. This is a defagment and a shame, and they're not gonna get us to shut up. They will not, however much they claim, get UPyD to reduce its criticism of the Basque Nationalist Party or the Basque Government. It is a defachation and a shame that we are not willing to tolerate. Last night the "Minute by minute" program on the Economic Concert was broadcast. Which political parties attended that debate? Basque Nationalist Party, Bildu, Basque Socialist Party, People's Party, Citizens and Podemos. Citizens and Podemos have no representation in this Parliament. And who does he decide to leave out? Again to UPyD. In a debate on the Economic Concert, the only political party that clearly criticizes the Economic Concert and that has representation in this House, look at where the EITB Directorate-General decides to leave it out so that it cannot explain its position on this issue. This is intolerable, this is a shame. And it rains on wet. Six political parties debated yesterday about the Economic Concert, and, look where, who's out? UPyD, the only political party that says something different about everyone else. Is this objectivity? Is this plurality? This? What do we call this? Do you know what tweet just sent the "Minute by minute" program about the broadcast of yesterday's program? "Last night Pedro Luis Uriarte gave us a master class on the Economic Concert." Is this objectivity? What about the political parties that we think differently? And it turns out that EITB is advocating a specific position of a person who went there to explain for an hour and a half what their position is on the issue. This is a shame. This is a shame, Counselor. We will be talking, by the way, about the press release issued today by the Office of the Prosecutor in connection with his appearance yesterday at the Education Commission. That is another issue, but this issue is also a shame. So, of course, we can talk about Radio Vitoria, it is an important issue, we can talk about the decisions that have to be made on this issue, but what is unacceptable is that we have an EITB that is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government, and that tries to get revenge on UPyD in that way. Let him seek revenge for UPyD only because we are a free political party, who dares to criticize the Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. A real shame. We are not going to tolerate it, it seems profoundly unfair to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u100	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. Indeed, Mr Unzalu, unfortunately this is not a new debate. You've defined it very well. And if I say unfortunately it is because when a pronouncement is made by the whole House, or by a large majority of the House, on a subject that was socially sensitive, the Government is disheartening the House, and we have to reiterate the debate from 2013 to 2015, and we continue in 2015 and we have to bring it back on the table for the simple reason that this Parliament is not being heard. I share with you the historical analysis you have made and much of your initiative, because I think the problem is on the table, but I cannot share the solutions. The solutions do not go beyond reforming the staff or complementing the staff in the situation in which the Government of the Basque Nationalist Party has left Radio Vitoria. Obviously, it wasn't a money problem. There was no economic problem. No numbers were put on the table to say "We must fire a large part of the staff, 20-25% of the professionals in the house". Moreover, many of these professionals have been replaced by others. And here comes the problem. That's the problem. And I also agree with you, Mr Unzalu, in your sentence: ETB was a radio made by nationalists... sorry, a television made by nationalists for nationalists. And that's the problem with Radio Vitoria. I am very fond of the radio, Mrs. Counsellor, since I was a child, and I remember very well the proximity of Radio Vitoria. It was a very local, very Victorian, very alavesic radio station, but it's what citizens want to hear on the radio: the very close news, the news of your town hall, the things that have happened on the street, the traffic problems, the problems of time..., I'm not going to say gossip, but the comments of the things that happen in the city, in the families of the city. Vitoria is a moderately small city, and Radio Vitoria was the one who gave that service, the only one who gave it. And that's what you've been carrying. I am surprised that you are joining the compromise amendment today, because what you would actually have to do was stand up and applaud yourselves. Because with all these measures they have managed to transform what was Radio Vitoria, when society was asking them repeatedly and by all means and by all possible loudspeakers that Radio Vitoria should not be transformed into something else of the ETB group, that their proximity should not be lost. I am not going to enter into the issue of the political independence of professionals, because they deserve my respect, but I am going to tell you my personal situation (it is not something I have heard): to me, when I have arrived at interviews with Radio Vitoria, I have been told not to take it the wrong way, that more than an interview is a debate. People have told me that they were working there and that they are still working there. That is the reality: they want to turn it into an instrument of indoctrination, not a nearby radio. Certain policy options do not have the support they should have, or at least the impartiality of professionals. Are we going to replenish Radio Vitoria's staff with the human media he had? Yeah. But we have already taken the independent professionals out of the way, which is what it was all about. And now we're going to make up the staff and we're going to hire more people, more spending (then the problem wasn't economic, I repeat it), and we're going to have that radio again to the extent of government interests, not to the extent of the need for citizenship. And, unfortunately, my arguments will be given the reason for the close ratings when they are published. We got up in the morning the Victorians, we could get up, and those who arrive in Vitoria in the first hour of the morning, with the program "The Early Morning", a program from six to eight in the morning, leader of undisputed audience. Those contracts had to be avoided. For a program that is done in Spanish, it is essential that these authors be bilingual. A program that is done in Spanish. In other words, other professionals are hired in EITB. If for some reason the job relationship had to be replaced by someone who no longer had knowledge of Basque, who was bilingual, it could be done, but the programmes could be maintained. No, no, It's just that interest is not the template. The interest is to eliminate this type of programming. We'll see if the current professional – with all due respect – who wears that slot now will either maintain or not maintain the ratings and, of course, the audience leadership that previously held those who were. That's a loss for society, because it was a kind program, no political dyes. It was a fun program, to get up in the morning with a smile and go to work with joy. No more. That is why I think that restoring the number of workers is not the solution. When there are professionals who have been making radio for years and years, they are fired (unbelievable) and replaced by people who are bilingual. What's important is that they're bilingual, regardless of whether they've worked on radio or not. We're back to the usual! I care that the doctor has medical knowledge; then he talks to me as he can, but the important thing is that he has medical knowledge. No, no, We replace journalists with a very long work experience, audience leaders, by people who actually... And we all agree that our officials speak Basque, very well. But do you know how to radio? No, it's just that that's secondary, that at the time of the exams wasn't the important thing. That is sad, and that is to the detriment of the quality of the programmes offered. And every time – and you won't be able to deny that – there are greater disconnections from that local radio to the programming of Radio Euskadi; that I don't say it's bad, but if I want to hear Radio Euskadi change of tune and put Radio Euskadi. Why that eagerness not to maintain its own programming? If I'm going to live in Durango tomorrow, I'm going to be next door to Mr. Lehendakari, I'm going to live there and I'm going to work on a local radio station, and I want to do Durango society programs, I'm going to last two televisions, because I'm not from there, I don't know Durango, and it's going to cost me a huge effort to re-position myself in that society to get to know her and to be able to talk about her on the waves. Why should these professionals be fired? To generate less own production – that was the reason for the amendment to the whole that we had tabled – and to continue to disconnect with the radio of all Basques, with Radio Euskadi. But for that we already have the option of following it on the dials from which it is heard here. The important thing and the idea of what Radio Vitoria had been bought for, and the important thing that this Parliament has always said, is that we have to keep a radio close by, which was a local radio; that it is not an autonomous radio, nor is it regional, it is a local radio. There's money, there's means. Why has it been done? I don't know. Will you ever listen to this Parliament and take the necessary steps to ensure that this situation does not continue to be repeated? I no longer ask you to re-hire all those people who have said good-bye and go back to the previous programming, which would certainly have a lot more audience than you have now, and you know it. But I can ask you that from now on those workers who make the live radio (not those who are in the writing, those who make the live radio), when they end their working life and retire, of course they are not replaced by a disconnection with Radio Euskadi. It just doesn't make any sense. That is not Radio Vitoria, and that is certainly not what this Parliament has repeatedly asked of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Mrs. President. Good evening, Chief. I was about to ask for the presence of the medical services of the Chamber, because I was concerned about Mr. Maneiro's health. He managed to stay ten minutes in a row talking about EITB without asking for his director's resignation. Are you okay? Then, on the next shift? I continue then, because I usually ask for it four or five times in every intervention you have. I'm not going to talk about EITB; the subject that brings us here today is Radio Vitoria, and I'm just going to talk about Radio Vitoria. We don't think it's possible to talk about the dissolution of Radio Vitoria when the same program is maintained and the workers have been reduced to 10 percent in the last four years. The workers on the radio can't be excluded from technical developments, programming changes, economic outcomes. We have signed a compromise amendment with Socialists and Bildu, and I believe that we agree on the three points of the amendment, but, Mr Unzalu, we do not agree on the previous history that interprets those points, nor on the title of the proposal. We have already told you that dismantling and I think you know it (that is called your proposal, "Dismantling Radio Vitoria"), is a very catastrophic, very destructive noun, for nothing indicates what happens on Radio Vitoria. Radio Vitoria has not been dismantled, Radio Vitoria is not being dismantled, and Radio Vitoria is not being dismantled either. Radio Vitoria continues to broadcast its twenty-four hours of programming every day, continues to bill its advertising, and also continues to appear in first or second place in almost all audience studies, depending on whether it is the EGM or if it is the CIES. We all know there's been a downsizing on Radio Vitoria. Mr Maneiro said that 25%, you said 20%... my notes are that it is 15% in recent years. But we have some causes, which are the same causes that caused the ERE of Eusko Irratia and Radio Euskadi. The judicial decision that comes to read to them says the following, which protects that ERE, which is the closest thing to the suspension of Radio Vitoria's temporary contracts: "It is concluded that it does compete with economic cause enough to justify collective dismissal. Eusko Irratia and Radio Vitoria are in budget deficit in the last four quarters of the 14th and forecast of the 15. They are also in a loss situation and are at risk of dissolution. There has been a decrease in income in the 2014 financial year. Despite the measures that have been taken to reduce expenditure, they are insufficient. In short, job depreciation is shown to be reasonable, proportionate and adequate to meet the objective of budgetary stability." Let's make some history, which you have also started making history of Radio Vitoria. We all know that at the beginning of Radio Euskadi and Radio Vitoria, when news had to be covered, a car from Radio Euskadi or Radio Vitoria, a driver of that car, a technician from the station and an editor were coming to the place. At the age of fifteen or twenty there were two people left, because the editor with his mobile phone could do the function that the technician, the editor and also the driver with the car did before. There is also the theory that to maintain radio programming it has always taken three people, to be able to be: a technician who was with all the low-frequency devices, a speaker who kept the talk and kept the broadcast, and a editor who read the news. Ten or fifteen years have passed, and now with only one person we have the whole picture: the same person is the editor who reads news, is the speaker who maintains communication with the listeners, and, thanks to technological inventions, is the person who with digitization can also do the services that previously did radio control. We are against the savage capitalism of private radios, which, of course, as new apparatuses were invented, reduced the presence of personnel on their stations. That's an extreme. That is, we believe that technology should not be used so much to reduce staffing. But the other extreme, that we regard public radio as a sacred totem that cannot be moved according to the demands of programming and technology, does not suit us either. What would we do if, for example, there were five technicians left on public radio for the sake of technological progress? Readapting them, first of all. But if not, what would we do? That he's reading the paper waiting for retirement? I believe that public radio too, although its objective is obviously not profitability as in the private sector, but rather that its objective is a public service, must also have a certain waist, a certain flexibility to adapt its staff, especially to the new times of communication technology. We don't like to get involved in giving advice to those who run public radio and television. Mr Arbulo said in his amendment that local content should be prioritized on regional programming, with the aim of avoiding the loss of hearing. With your advice, Mr Arbulo, you are against the public and private radio theory of the last forty years in Europe. The tendency has been quite the opposite, to reduce local time. Because, of course, the listeners of Vitoria are not Martians who only want to know about Vitoria. They want to know what's going on in Bilbao, Donosti, Madrid, Paris, Syria... And they also have a universal interest. I can't imagine a Vitoria listener saying, "Give me twenty-four hours of Vitoria content," because neither the city generates so much content, nor in the citizen's interest do the shots go there. But, anyway, I'm going to give you some data so you can see that your request has no feet and no head. How much do you think private radios devote to the subject of praise and victory? I tell you, three hours a day, an eighth part of the day, which is something like 12%. The newspaper that is most sold in Álava, the newspaper that is the most printed in Álava and Vitoria, devotes approximately fifteen pages on every ninety-six pages of the daily edition, which is also approximately 15%. Radio Vitoria spends sixteen hours a day, which is two-thirds, which is 66%. Look at the comparison. Any private radio that operates in Vitoria, Bilbao or Donostia, 12% local content; the newspaper with the largest circulation, 15%; Radio Vitoria, 66%. And do you still ask for more local content, knowing that local content is obviously the most expensive content on the radio? With this we would increase the cost of the radio, and then we would be told that the size of the radio is excessive, and that obviously it is spent much more than it should be. I think Radio Vitoria's local programming is perfectly well-rounded. It has forty-four people on payroll, which I think is also moderately well provided the number of workers with the local time number. And what I would tell you... I do not want to describe provincialism as rancid, because it can be misunderstood, but you are always looking for Radio Vitoria as a ram against the public entity EITB, as saying "We complain about Radio Vitoria with our Victorianism, in front of the information imperialism Gipuzcoano and Vizcaíno". I think it should be the other way around. We should be grateful in Álava that the public body, when it buys Radio Vitoria from the Municipal Savings Bank, does what it does, instead of saying – what any private company would have done – "I remove Radio Vitoria, I take advantage of its frequencies and antennas, and through the antennas those broadcast Radio Euskadi's programming"... Because don't forget that Radio Vitoria is a differential element in Euskadi that we pay for the Alaves, but also the Vizcains and Gipuzcoans pay for it. They could also say, "We're taking over a radio that we don't listen to and whose content doesn't matter much, and yet we don't have any local public radio in Gipuzkoa or any local public radio in Bizkaia." And I would invite you, instead of always complaining about that constant comparative aggravation, to realize that you have a prize. They have a prize in the form of a local public radio that we pay all Basques and that listen only to the Victorians, for geographical reasons, and for reasons of informational interest. So, they're always complaining. His deputy general said a year ago that EITB had devoted two more minutes to the drum of Azpeitia than to the drum of San Prudencio; the following month they said that Radio Euskadi had spoken two more minutes of Barakaldo than of Deportivo Alavés... Let us leave to the heads of information and sports of Radio Euskadi and Radio Vitoria who decide themselves to see what time they spend, and we do not interfere in their task. Especially what I just said to you: 66% of local radio time. With that time, it bores the listeners. No more time is needed for Radio Vitoria; Vitoria does not generate so much information as to be able to speak for sixteen hours. But there are 66%, which amounts to a very high cost. And what I told you before: let's not see Radio Vitoria as a reason to protest against EITB. Let's tell the Alaves that Radio Vitoria is a gift that EITB gives us, and that it is a comparative aggravation in our advantage over Vizcaínos and Guipuzcoans. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. On the answering shift, Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u103	Yes, thank you very much. Mr Ramírez-Escudero, every time you talk about Radio Vitoria, it is that you are consecrated. He has gone to his seat saying that Radio Vitoria is a gift, as if the citizens of Alavese and Alavese do not pay the taxes so that we have this. Come on, it's... No, no! That's what you said the way it was ending. And, well, I'm going to start with the beginning of your intervention, which I really believe your signature of the transactional amendment responds to what I thought, what happens is that it's not our attitude to deny, to anyone who says they agree with a transactional amendment, to deny you the signature. But you said you're not going to correct the course, that everything is fine. You have said that they will continue in the same, when precisely in this compromise amendment that you have signed what is said is the opposite. It is that the course is corrected, that Radio Vitoria is maintained in the conditions that it has now, and that it does not go in the drift in which it is being carried two years ago. That's what they say, and you say no, it's all going very well. I'm afraid what you've done is an election gesture. That is to say, in order not to create any more tensions in the Alavesa society, and since we are less than a month away from the general elections, you have signed today something to wash your face but that, ultimately, is the same as you told us here on June 6, 2013, a day that, by the way, was not glorious either: you did here a series of disregards on the staff of Radio Vitoria that deserved the strong response of the Radio Vitoria workers themselves. But today I am going to refer to what you said and have not fulfilled. You said here on this stand that "EITB's management will maintain the current local programming of Radio Vitoria and the current template". And then, continuing his intervention, he said: "I repeat the commitment that the Radio Vitoria brand will continue to exist, with its usual programming and with its staff." For I say this, but also the workers of Radio Vitoria say this, twenty-three professionals with a long career, with a long experience, and precisely these workers on 29 September made a statement in which they said the opposite: that the contents given on Radio Vitoria regarding the local are coming down; that there is an inability to perform certain tasks because they are being left with less means. That's all they say. I believe it, I agree, but it's that they, who are there on the radio itself, said it on September 25th. I believe, Mr Ramírez-Escudero, that what you have done is an electoral gesture with this, and you have wanted to wash your face, but I am very afraid, I am very afraid that we will have to continue talking about Radio Vitoria, because with your attitude, which you have shown us here, there will be no correction. And I thought... the truth is that when we signed this morning I thought that your intention, that of your group and that of the Basque Government, was to straighten out what is going wrong on Radio Vitoria, but, well, as I say, to the facts. I said in my first speech that I hope that your signature will ensure that this is fulfilled. Let's see, I hope that your intention, your way of looking at things, are not the ones that the advisor herself sees, who is responsible at the moment for the radio station. And Mr. Arbulo, actually, I want to tell you that between what you said and what we... Apart from some considerations about Radio Vitoria that you have taken a little to the landscape or the landscape this, which I thought has exaggerated a little in this, but that's also not the most important, but is that honestly I don't think there is so much difference between what we pose... Plus, I think it's the same thing. And that if you, since Tuesday that I passed our compromise amendment to you, would have made contributions, surely today we were voting and perhaps we would have achieved unanimity. For what? To get Radio Vitoria not to be dismantled, to get Radio Vitoria to remain in that public, local and generalist character that, from what you have said, we can share. Because, look, you say in your entire amendment... It calls for "effective means to ensure the continuity of a public service", and in the amendment we have adopted, which we have signed and which we are going to vote on, we say that the content is maintained and that it responds to a generalist and local radio character referring to the Alavesa society. I don't know, semantically of course we don't say the same thing, but in the idea I think we absolutely agree. You call for effective measures to ensure the continuity of quality public service, and we say that Radio Vitoria must have a staff that precisely ensures that. Indeed, we talk about staffing, but precisely for what? We do not talk about staffing because we want to maintain a number of jobs or not, but because we believe that staffing, among other things, ensures that quality service can be maintained. I therefore invite you, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, to join the majority, the virtually more than absolute majority in this House, and to vote on the compromise amendment, because I believe that there is honestly no difference in the approach, in the idea, but it can be, in any case, if you want, semantic, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u104	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. The EH Collecting Team. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u105	Out of the way, please. To highlight only, when we see the interference, there is a certain agreement in this Chamber when it shows the value of Radio Vitoria. So we want to call it because if we really want to change the situation, we think we all agree in the way that this is a disturbing situation... Radio Vitorium Vitoria needs more resources: budget resources, human resources, corresponding to personal resources. And if this time the management won't listen to these demands. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u106	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Maneiro must speak. ? No. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u107	Thank you, President. Mr. Unzalu, I appreciate your extended hand, but I can't take it. I cannot take it because you yourself have started your speech by saying that the vote on the part of those who are signing this compromise amendment is not believed. And neither do I! And neither do I! I do not believe, however much I put in the text, that there are groups that sign it and that have come here to tell us that Radio Vitoria is a gift from the Basques for these citizens. I think it's embarrassing, really. That statement seems tremendous to me, along with others that I had already read from previous debates. It is curious that technical advances have led to redundancies on radios, on public radios and on private radios, but it seems that it is a disgrace that technical advances have only been made on Radio Vitoria, because on the rest of the stations there has not been such redundancies. In other words, technical advances are paid by Radio Vitoria's workers. To keep others from the entity? That is, that you justify me and read to me here a court decision that justifies an ERE because effectively with the income of the entity the expenses are not covered... Would you dare to pass through that sieve to the whole EITB group? They're all going out on the street! Would you dare to pass through this sieve to public enterprises dependent on the Basque Government and other institutions, the Government of the State, any autonomous community, the municipalities...? Would you dare? If someone presents an ERE with that argument (what is own income and what is expenditure), the court decision will accept dismissals. But you have the courage to say that that should only happen for Radio Vitoria. If he's escaped! Totally, what is it? A gift for the Victorians! A gift from who? Don't we pay taxes here, or what? Don't we have the right to keep that station? Didn't you buy it for that purpose to keep that local radio? "No, it already has, 66% of the production is devoted to local issues. Enough." Enough at whose discretion? Yours? Not the one in this Parliament! Is there any law that says that 66% of the contents have to be local, that they are not? I'm asking you for your own production. Obviously, they will have to connect with other services because there is a lot of news that needs to be covered and that are important from other parts of the territory. Of course I do! But what has hurt me the most is to justify and put on the same plane the dismissal of a driver as that of a gentleman who presents a program of maximum audience. With all due respect to the driver, it's not necessary now, but you say it's a technical advance and that this gentleman must be fired and that things happen. I insist and repeat: only on Radio Vitoria, not on the rest of the group. And that pro, we fire him, why? For a technical advance? What technical advance, if you're an audience leader? Before they should have fallen others! But they weren't bilingual, or the same is that they were overly independent and you don't like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Euzko Abertzaleak. Ramírez-Escudero jauna, zurea da hitza. RAMIREZ-SCUDERO ISUSI jaunak: Mr.Unzalu, we have neither come to lie nor to make a signature because we are in pre-election time. There's a difference. We do not want to send in EITB, we do not want to say what the staff of Radio Vitoria is, nor do we want to say, like Mr Arbulo, what the local programming has to be. What we say is that it has to be the unions and the EITB leadership who make this happen. And I read to you, as you already know, the third point of our amendment: "The Basque Parliament urges the management of EITB to negotiate with workers' representatives the measures that will allow the performance of Radio Vitoria's activity under optimal quality conditions, taking into account the public nature of the station". But what it looks like here is that you want to be the one to say what the staff top of Radio Vitoria is, and it seems that Mr. Arbulo dresses up as the head of Radio Vitoria information and wants to tell the radio professionals who have to talk, what time they have to talk and how much they have to talk. We would never think of arrogating that representativeness. Mr. Arbulo, don't get me wrong about the gift. What I have said is that Radio Vitoria, a local public broadcaster, is a differential fact, that there is neither in Bizkaia nor in Gipuzkoa. It will not be a gift, but it will be the only local public radio station in Euskadi, and that we pay for it by the Alaves, but also by those who do not listen to it, who are the Vizcains and Gipuzcoans. So, I think we have to understand the fact that Radio Vitoria exists as something good of the public entity for Álava, not as something bad that is always claiming more local time and is always being used as a fighting ram against everything that the public entity EITB means. I believe that the current programming of Radio Vitoria is a good programming in terms of content, in terms of number of local themes, and that its billing is also good. So, I think that as Radio Vitoria is now I would not ask for more local time to ask, because, I told you before, all European stations in the last forty years have gone backwards, they have been asking for less local time, because it is more expensive. And not only because of that, but because the listener, whether Victorian or Pernambuco, also likes, apart from the local theme, to learn about everything else. We're not going to fill his ears simply with typical Alaves themes. You'll have to tell him that the world exists around you. And I think with 66% local time it's fully served. So I believe that neither the EITB directive nor the trade unions should be told what they have to do. What we have to do is make it possible, with today's agreement, for them to come together, to talk, and for them to define what is the ideal template of Radio Vitoria and what is the local programming of Radio Vitoria. Mr Arbulo, do not complain that there have only been unrenewed contracts on Radio Vitoria, because there was also an ERE on Radio Euskadi and on Eusko Irratia. I believe that there has been a proportional distribution, more or less, of the absence of recruitments. It may be one more point or one less point, but it's not just been... Don't sell it as a punishment again to Radio Vitoria. No, no, because there was also an ERE that didn't affect Radio Vitoria. On Radio Vitoria there were other types of contracts cancelled, but on Radio Euskadi and in Eusko Irratia there was an ERE. With this we have not been punished by the directors of Radio Euskadi to Radio Vitoria. It has been a thing that has been distributed proportionally, I believe, among the three historical territories. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the mediumal corrections signed by Basque Socialists, EH Collectors and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 64; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u110	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposition, as the Julian team made, concerning the violent genus of festivals, leisures, and play-rooms, and sexists of conduct. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Ruiz has the word to suggest and take off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Well, yesterday was the International Day against Gender Violence, and the truth is that there are already a few days in the course of the year in which no social cause is commemorated and celebrated, but few will attract as much unity and attention as is happening in recent years with the International Day against Gender Violence. I think it is a collective success, and I also believe that if there were not so many policies on gender-based violence, many administrations, for so long, would not be able to attract so much interest and attention. In fact, as soon as this item on the agenda is finalized and this plenary will be reading an institutional declaration. So, with this background, I am bringing to the consideration of this plenary an initiative which aims to improve some specific policy to some extent. Today, fortunately, more and more is being achieved, and I think it is also a success of all, not to fall into the temptation to make the fight against gender violence an ideological issue and try to monopolize it from any concrete idea. And that also moves to public opinion. In fact, we have seen a survey these days by the Basque Government, the Office for Sociological Exploration, which spoke nothing less than 96% of Basques who consider gender-based violence unacceptable. I believe that with these figures we must be proud of the struggle that has been waged against this scourge. In any case, those who govern must carry out specific policies, programmes, actions; allocate economic resources, human resources, and also evaluate the measures they take, in order to correct or improve them in the light of the results of such assessments. And that's exactly what this initiative is about. The aim of this initiative is to evaluate and involve the Government in evaluating, before the end of the current parliamentary term, a programme which is very recent this summer, which has been launched within the framework of the Beldur Barik programme, which is an inter-institutional programme involving the Basque Government, but also the parliaments, also the municipalities through Eudel, and also EITB. And this new campaign is called Beldur Barik Guneak, and aims to avoid sexist aggressions in a very concrete collective, which is that of young people, and also in very determined moments and contexts, which are those of parties, leisure and fun. We have attended with concern all political groups to studies and data that show us something that decades ago we would have thought unthinkable, and that is that I would continue to live through inequality among young people, when we believed that this was something that would fix time. Moreover, there are also latent prejudices among young people who make it possible to create a climate conducive to gender-based aggression and violence. And that was why it was necessary and forced the Basque Government to take action towards these groups. And this programme to which our initiative refers arises precisely from the need to involve young people against macho violence, and to do so in those contexts in which, for some reason, conditions are more favourable and more vulnerable to such attacks. It is therefore a question of promoting attitudes and behaviours based on respect, equality and autonomy. Through this initiative that was launched in summer were designed and distributed leaflets among young people at parties, guides to prevent aggressions, stickers, posters...; also made recommendations on what music to listen to, or wedges to put in festive spaces, in txoznas; workshops... That is, that many measures and initiatives were taken into account. The music recommendations were perhaps the ones that had the most media screening, as original, to some extent, but also because they aroused some controversy. A list of songs was given in order to be able to click on hotel establishments and premises, by Olé Olé, by Raphael, by Lady Gaga, and this did not appeal to many bars, to the extent that it forced the Basque Government to go out and clarify what it had intended with that measure, which was not a question of musical tastes, it was not even an interventionist measure, but it was a question of messages and recommendations. The case is that, despite the fact that this programme is in force and that it was launched this summer, we had to re-condemn and denounce attacks on festivals, which also had a great impact, both in the three Basque capitals and in numerous municipalities in the Basque Country, as well as in Getxo and Barakaldo. And this from the People's Group gave us what to think, because, despite taking action, we saw that the objectives that were being pursued were not being achieved, or at least had room for improvement, right? Given the context in which this initiative is being discussed, with yesterday so recently and with the statement we are going to read, it was logical that we also reached a fairly shared agreement. And there will be a compromise amendment, which does ask the Government to evaluate and analyse the programme to which we refer before the end of the legislature, aimed at young people in festive and leisure settings, and to add and strengthen more commitment from more institutions and more municipalities, so that a clear and unified message on this issue can be moved. It is clear that more can always be done and better done, and when we propose them we do so in the more constructive spirit than we are capable of. We know that, because of the issue that is, if we wanted, we could engage in debate about what has been done wrong or not; even, as I was preparing this initiative, we discovered something else that I trust will be fixed and resolved quickly. But, in order not to let go of the mood we are in these days, with this shared cause, we welcome the fact that this initiative will come forward with this compromise amendment. The recent survey of the Basque Government also conveys other conclusions that have alarmed or worried the Basque Government and people in general. One of them is that four out of ten Basques consider that false complaints are made about gender-based violence, when we know that this is not the case. With this, things are not always as we would like, as we would like, but things are sometimes perceived differently from what they are, and that is where I believe that public policies on gender-based violence have to influence and intervene. This study, like so many others at the disposal of Emakunde and the Basque Government, gives a great deal of information that could suggest many new measures. Of course, this one I have just said about the complaints is clear that it should be inspired by new measures. But I am also concerned that more than half of Basques, for example, have not heard of the comprehensive law against gender-based violence. I also think that something needs to be done about it. But, related to the theme of this initiative, that of young people and in festive and leisure contexts, I also think it deserves reflection the fact that sixty-two out of every hundred Basques believe that alcohol and drug abuse are behind most acts of macho violence against women. This consumption and abuse that occurs in festive contexts can serve as an alibi, unfortunately, for those who do not respect the fundamental freedoms of women and attack them with sexist attitudes and aggression. Therefore, as long as there is room to improve these initiatives and policies, and as long as studies continue to reveal that we have things to improve, I think we should not give up on the effort, and this initiative that the People's Group is presenting is aimed at precisely that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u113	Thank you, President. Well, on this subject, as far as gender-based violence is concerned, in the need, which we all believe is necessary, for governments to do everything they can to eradicate this serious problem and this terrorism that exists also in our country, and which fundamentally attacks women. I think that, although in the content of the original initiative and in what is the subject in general we all probably agree, and I think we all agree, and from this comes the broad consensus that led to the compromise amendment, I think it would also be fair to say a few things. I believe that this issue, like others, should be one of those issues to which economic cuts are never applied. I believe that there have been huge economic cuts in what has to do with accompanying issues, on issues of awareness-raising policy, on specific programmes, and I believe that, although I recognize that Parliamentarian Ruiz has brought an initiative, apart from being timely, necessary, justified, and with all the parabeaux that need to be said, it is also fair to acknowledge that the starting point that Mr Rajoy found when he arrived at the Government of Spain is not the starting point from which the Government receives from 20 December, because this is one of the policies that the greatest economic cuts have suffered in the State's general budgets, starting from the global side and then going to the smallest. In this Parliament there is a person who has often been condemned as active and passive, who is the cause of all the evils of Spain, of Euskadi, of Vitoria and of all the peoples. That person so many times repeated and that link that you all turn to as parliamentarians to look for the culprit, who is Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, I think was the person responsible for the first law, which is called the Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence. I believe that it gave the most important qualitative change within policies that fight gender-based violence. And I think that by ceasing what is caesar, and Mr Zapatero can be held responsible for a lot of things, but I think he also deserves to be applauded for something like this, because he also put gender-based violence policy as the priority policy within equality policies. I therefore believe that the Socialist Party is not "one of the parties", but the party that put on the political agenda, as a first priority, the issue of gender-based violence. Therefore, a socialist would never have made the economic cuts that have been made to this policy. Having said that, as I said, we share the content of the initiative, we applaud the agreement reached... It is true that the Basque Government has launched a programme this summer because of the so disastrous summer that there has been on the issue of gender-based violence. It is signed in July, and therefore it is fair to give it time to assess what that programme of the Basque Government is capable of collecting and seeing what measures are working, what are not, and what other new tools may need to be applied to make that work better. And indeed that last study, to which Mrs Ruiz has referred, says very worrying things. It is true that it is also contradictory, because, at the same time that more than 90% recognises gender-based violence as a problem, there are also 40% who doubt that the complaints are true. At the same time as the problem is recognized, therefore, these complaints that come from women are called into question. It was true that it seemed that everything was done on this subject, it seemed that the freedom of women had been recognized, the right to express their opinions, to decide and to practice their lives within the freedom they have as citizens, but indeed much remains to be done. I share and share the part of what Emakunde was talking about (which is fundamental to pedagogy, education in values is fundamental), and I also believe that it would have been very important that subject of education for citizenship, in which the values of society could be worked in a deeper way within the classrooms, in the institutes, in those places where the education of our young people is developed. Because it is true and it is very worrying, as Mrs Ruiz said, that our young people consider that criticizing the dress or pretending to decide on the dress of their partner is normal, like that monitoring the mobiles or what they have inside their own mobiles is not part of gender violence. And all this is part of a worrying situation that, of course, the Administration must try to resolve. I must therefore say that we believe that the compromise that we have reached reflects the concern of this Parliament, recognizes that the tools that the Basque Government has put in place to try to combat this scourge; recognizing that they must be allowed to work and what analysis we will then make, it is important to do so. But I also believe that the work that has to be done from the houses themselves, from the schools themselves, and also from the administration, will be a fundamental point in preventing our young people from falling into these sayings or into these things that they consider normal and which, of course, are far from equality between men and women. We therefore welcome the agreement reached; we understand that much remains to be done, but that it is true that the tools are being put in place for this to happen, and then, in this as in other things, that this policy of equality and combating gender-based violence is not only one of those issues that we remember or that citizens echo when we have on the table news like those that we have lately too often, but that something is present and that is part of the political agenda of all governments, of the municipalities, to the central government, and between all administrations, because it must be one of the first concerns for any government that understands that it must represent its citizens. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u114	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mixed-UPyD.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u115	Yes, thank you, President. Only to say that, as it could not be otherwise, I share the content of the transactional. I share practically everything that has been said by the speakers, and certainly also everything that the speakers will say next. Every effort must be made to put an end to the scourge of sexist behavior and macho violence. It is one of the fundamental problems that this country has. Therefore, we must walk together and understand that this is a problem of the first magnitude. I think we all share basically the same thing, and it is about putting all the tools that are needed in order to end, as I say, with this scourge that shames all people of good, be men or women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. From EH Collect, Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u117	Good afternoon, everyone. We see a few things principally on the proposition of PP. In the Spanish State, he's on the contrary. With such an initiative he wishes to present himself as a democrat and defends the rights of women. We think it's unacceptable that PPP should be protected at that game. Those who, with their cuts and reforms, have burdened themselves with equality policies in the Spanish State, key policies for the eradication of sexist violence, who have encouraged the accelerated return of women to the home, who have burdened themselves with conciliation aid or have limited the right of adolescents to decide freely on their bodies, are, in our view, not in a position to raise such questions. Thanks to the feminist struggle for years, we women have gone to acquire basic rights for women. But the women of the Basque Country and of the wide world continue to be secondary citizens, because we have no chance of doing all rights by equality. At present we have not sufficient freedom to determine what we want to do with our body, with sexuality, and with reproduction. The right of enjoying the public is also broken out by us, in which we live in danger of being attacked, and life without violence is still a utopia for us. From EH Bildu we see ourselves, therefore, under this proposal, in the obligation to present an amendment that for us places the eradication of all kinds of macho violence in a political problem of first order, placing it on the political agenda, broadening the gaze and not the contexts. We are not standing in front of this situation, it is time to pass from words to actions. And in answer to our political concerns, we will defend the correction of our whole body in the plenoa, which puts violence in the position of the first political problem of the machista. We propose to form a power in the legislature to give political centralization to a matter of vital importance, in order to live a life without machinations of violence. In this form we would like to examine the dimensions of the machista of violence, the origin, the consequences, and the progress of the machista violence, and the diagnosis of the situation, in short, as a whole. In like manner, we would like to examine the work which is done to answer the mastery of violence, by paying special attention to the work of public institutions: What a preventive work is made, what politics are made for the power of women, what is done to aid victims. We'll study public policies and estimate them, and do what we have to do to improve them. And we don't just want to do all this between the four walls of the legislature. We propose to participate in the feminists of movement in this pomp, by the experts, by the results, and by the public institutions which are involved. As far as violence is not an exceptional event, and as we live in our everyday life, it is a primary problem for us, it is not residual. The initial amendments and the proposal put forward by the other groups tell us precisely about this, about continuity; the continuity that makes this type of machist response not comprehensively addressed. They are not given the answer we have to give them. You know what we need? We need public policies that focus on two issues. On the one hand, responding to the emergency situations that occur, to curb the precariousness of women's lives; clear, firm and feminist socio-economic measures. And on the other hand, those who prioritize life and care in the face of economic enrichment. We are seeing a widespread assumption of macho violence, and despite having positive aspects, it must be emphasized that the problem is depoliticized, denying the real conflict and the power relations that sustain it. There is an absence in terms of power in current policies of attention to violence. We need to start talking about human rights in macho violence, because only from the human rights perspective are women appointed as right holders, and therefore place institutions as guarantors of those rights with all the means at their disposal. The implementation of the so-called Comprehensive Law against Macho Violence, or Gender Violence, which they officially call at the state level, also affects us in this Autonomous Community, and has often not been due to a human rights approach (empowering approach), but rather to an assistanceist approach, in which women are seen as beneficiaries who have to fit into that cliché. The human rights approach precisely makes it possible to get out of this assistanceist approach, to stop talking about women as users of violence resources, and to consider violence not as a social problem, but as a question of political, civil, cultural and also social rights. It is also necessary to take into account the multiple discriminations, such as that of migrant women in irregular administrative situations, women with functional diversity, including women with high socio-economic profiles, who are not being met because their resources do not fit in with social services. I am going to give some examples so that we can see the great shortcomings that exist right now in filing a report of male-based violence. There is a false belief that specialized courts of violence against women are specialized courts. In fact, they are not specialized, since the staff involved (lawyers and lawyers, chief of staff, prosecutor's office) have not received the specific training for this purpose. There is no official follow-up of what is happening in these courts, no account is being taken of how it is working, and in fact the data we have is that cross-reports are proliferating, i.e. from aggressors to their victims; acquittals and filed cases have increased by 158%, and many of the women who have been murdered have been killed precisely in these kinds of parameters. Overruns have increased (no more in Getxo, 50% of cases are overtaken, and in Barakaldo the figure is almost similar). And although the legislation provides for the possibility of punishing habitual abuse, in the case of the comprehensive law it is tending to consider only specific episodes of violence, so it is very difficult to prove habitual violence, and this leads to many women having a great deal of supplication in reporting. The judicial processes, the judicial system, and in particular the courts, are today the most hostile place in this whole process, because it is essential that women know what they face when they arrive at these places. They need pre-trial advice that is not currently being provided to them. The complaint cannot be understood as an end, but as a means. Not to mention the poor infrastructure with which we find ourselves today. Even the Security Advisor admitted it. In the police stations of the Ertzaintza, for example, today, when women file a complaint about male violence, they have to meet the aggressor, because there is no physical space that differentiates them. The same applies to the courts. I myself have accompanied cases of machist violence of people nearby, and there are trials like the Bilbao Court, for example, in which in a room of ten square meters all victims of machist violence are brought together with their lawyers and their people close to them to, in the short time they have, study the cases. In the end, it turns out to be group therapy, but mandatory, because they have no privacy whatsoever. Let us also remember that the state law only contemplates, eye, the violence exercised by the couple or the ex-partner, leaving out numerous cases that in this case have doubled, because we officially speak of forty-eight women murdered in the Spanish State according to this law, but there are ninety-three feminicides this year. Given the amendment tabled by the rest of the formations – which, by the way, by no means have sent the amendment to EH Bildu, but, well, it seems logical to me, because we are starting from different approaches – we must insist on this prevailing need to continue taking firm steps, to give a comprehensive response, to make a comprehensive strategy; not to patch. Because it is not a context, it is not a context that in this case is talked about fun and leisure, but it is a problem that needs to be addressed in an integral way. And as long as this does not happen we will continue to patch and patch, but we will not get there, we will not have the political will to get to the root of the problem. We need firm, honest, determined bets, and Euskal Herria Bildu humbly proposes this presentation, because we consider it to be the way to put, to place the eradication of Machist violence as a top political problem. And for a key aspect that we consider fundamental: today, as incredible as it may seem, there is no dialogue, there is no space for collective discussion between the institutions and the feminist movement, in addition to other actors, that allows us to weave coherent discourses that land in this model of prevention and shared comprehensive care, each with its redefined role, but also in which these social agents are integrated as part of the agents who work tirelessly to build lives free of macho violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Madame Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief of Staff, Congressman, good evening to all of you. Our group considers it to be very positive, as we see in the medium, that we have obtained a great harmony in this matter, that we must make a match for the assaults and violences against women, both in the street and in the street, in which situation and in all places we are concerned. As long as we extend an engagement of union to society, we show them what means they ought to follow, in this legislative institution, which has the right of the legislative power, it is impossible that we should not unite forces to this human evil by association and unity. The members of the legislature who have contributed to me, have reflected in an objective or extensive way around the machista of the machista of which we are suffering. Most respectable. My intention, in this matter, is to go to the heart-that is to say, to the strength of the genus and sexist conduct of festivals, leisures, and amusements-I have come to take care of it and to accept the measures of improvement. With summer's arrival, the whole of the Basque Country celebrates a week's festival, but, unfortunately, instead of spending in a cheerful and peaceful holiday, there are several kinds of sexual extravagances and abuses. Not every holiday, not every moment, but, as I have said, it's a pity they're happening. This summer, we've been able to recognize the facts that have made a great echo. And it is necessary, in specific terms, to face the attacks and abuses which have occurred in these periods of festival and leisure. And this tool came in July, 2015, with the name of the Place Feare. Thus did he appear on the day of introduction: "Beldur Barik Gunea is a strategy for global action against macho violence, specifically in festive and leisure contexts. It is born of the urgent need to involve youth against macho violence, promoting attitudes and behaviors based on respect, equality and autonomy." It was presented as a safe space, free of aggressions, where to promote the beldur barik attitude, generating individual and collective responses to aggressions, making visible sexual violence at parties and demanding the self-organization and feminist mobilization. A program where boys have a very important role to play in ending sexist aggressions, demanding that they should establish equal and respectful relations with women and men, and demanding that they break the silence complicit in seeing sexist aggressions from their peers, and that they break their silence also when they increduce, laugh or ignore sexist comments and jokes, lesbians and homophobes. As we see, it goes far beyond saying what kind of music young people have to listen to today. And so, as it joins with the Popular, the Socialist Group and the middle-way signed with UPyD, we demand that it be introduced, once the site of fear has been set up, and then what results have been produced in the festivals and entertainments of our villages, and that, with the intention of improving them, new actions and plannings which would always be necessary to improve. And in that half-way too, we ask you to make sure that the site of the Barik is in the vicinity of the program, to strengthen the commitment between the organizations, to bring together more and more of the townships of euskal, to set up a message in front of the sanctuaries of the social forces and the sports departments. In necessity, all these acts of commitment, reflection, and reflection. They are involved in the plan of equality, and I shall not now begin to show that in the works of the execution of this plan, who have contributed to it, and who have accepted it, we all know that it is also protected by many and different political institutions and positions. The policy of this circle penetrates into the third line of the principle of equality, and the principle of fear is a necessary instrument to direct them. We all know fear Brik's junk and how 2009 is. it is now becoming more and more extensive, until at the present day it has become a model for the young euplacha to participate in the police of equality, and to study them in a more profound manner. Fear Bar is a specific program that is included in the Fear Barik project. And, as we all know, the frame of Fear Barik is one of the organizations, an interinstinational, and every organization that participates in it has different jurisdictions. So this human condition is in an integral form. As Mrs Ruiz has already commented, Beldur Barik is a programme driven by Emakunde, and has the support and funding of the outlaws of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa and Eudel. In addition, it has the cooperation of the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture of the Basque Government, Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea and EITB, so I repeat that it addresses this issue in an integral way. Your lady gold, yes, I'd like you to tell me something. Seriously, we're sorry that today's team, the EH Collector, don't join this proposal. Above all the misunderstandings that may exist between different political groups, our team never has any problems to put signatures in the middle of it, I think you should protect this medium, and we should have a united attitude on this subject. I'd like to ask you a question. Does EH Collect really think it's the best way to face things like that? Is the production of power in all cases really the most effective and the best policy? To remedy this severe evil, is that a magic recipe? That's what I'd like to know. To conclude, since the project Beldur Barik Gunea has been presented more than twenty-four municipalities have launched it at their employers' parties, implementing policies that seek to involve youth against macho violence, promoting attitudes and behaviors based on respect, equality and autonomy. And, above all, giving each municipality freedom in order to be able to create its own commissions responsible for carrying out these actions, collaborating the city itself with commissions of parties or different associative movements, in an open and participatory way, and above all aimed at sensitizing and preventing, both fundamental functions, to our understanding. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u121	Yes, thank you again, Madam President. I wanted to comment on some of the statements made by the rest of the spokespersons, and tell Mrs Red, well, it seems logical to me to demand the law carried out by the Zapatero Government, but, by all accounts, it must also be said that it is being held in this legislature when work is being done in subcommission, in which a lot of considerations and recommendations have been made by all groups to see how to improve its functioning and who knows if with the need to amend it after a decade in operation of this law. And that's got nothing wrong with it. Just, things have to be reviewed, and if they can be improved, they can be improved, right? He also said that the study of the Basque Government was contradictory. No, we're the people who are contradictory. The study sometimes shows that we sometimes declare things that may not then marry our behaviors, and if we ask in a survey if you consider yourself a sexist, everyone would say no. Then there would be already... And, well, that's what sociological studies are for, to delve into and really investigate what behaviors, attitudes and underlying values exist, right? He also talked about the importance of gender-based violence, which we do not remember only in international days. I think it is very difficult to make it a priority, and in part I think it is good that gender-based violence is not even one of the three main problems in the surveys, because then I would worry. In the same way that I am glad that today terrorism is not one of the three main concerns of the Basques. Now, when you ask those same Basques what importance they attach to this social problem, today that importance is very high, and it has also grown in recent years. Mrs Urrea must be told that the amendment that you proposed to me was to create a paper, and that is why we are diametrically against it. Because he also made a general approach to everything that they are..., he again questioned on the table all that are policies against gender-based violence. In fact, in his speech he spoke of many issues that go beyond, and far beyond, the specific issue to which our initiative relates. In fact, I would like to talk about the issues that you have mentioned, and there would also be issues on which I might agree. Specifically, he has spoken about issues of justice, and last week in the Ararteko debate I was talking about precisely how he drew attention in his annual report to specific issues that have to do with justice personnel or with targeting children the children of victims of terrorism. What happens is that, of course, we did not see that the formula of the presentation was acceptable, when there are presentations in this Parliament that are not in operation, such as that of the reform of the Ararteko law, to give it more work in what remains of the legislature. And the lady... Oh, and another theme. He was also talking about ideological issues, equality... Nor have I started to argue, that I could do so, and back to the debates that have taken place here on the Shared Custody Act, and also the approaches we have on equality between men and women, but that is why I do not ideologically disauthorize or patrimonialize a specific cause, such as gender-based violence in this case. And Mrs. Arrizabalaga I have to tell you that I have set the example of music because it was the one who... Probably a lot of people wouldn't have any idea about this campaign, because it wasn't aimed at them (it was aimed at young people, who have to know about this program), but it was news of the fact of the controversy, because there were many bars that didn't make fun of being told what music they had to do at parties, right? And that's why I put it on. Because it is true that you work very well on other things, with digital contests, in the end with their language, with social networks, and, put to make some criticism – I had saved it in the first intervention, but now I say it to you – it would not be much more, I think it is even a legal obligation, that all that is the website of this concrete program and this framework was in Spanish and Basque, and right now it is only in Basque, with a rather pilgrim explanation, for my taste: that, as it goes to young people and is supposed to be everyone is Basque, because... Apart from the fact that it is not true, I believe that there is a legal obligation for it to be in both languages, and that is specifically an improvement that could already be made at the outset, without much evaluation, that requires such an initiative. And, well, finally, thank you for the compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u123	Yes, President, from the seat, if I may. Only to tell Mrs Ruiz that during this legislature, work has actually been carried out within the General Courts to address the issue of violence against women, but it is true that in the form of political resolutions neither the accompanying policies nor the psychological attention they receive, nor the places where women should go when they feel threatened... I want to say that it has been possible to study and work, that I do not doubt it and I do not question it, but what you cannot deny is that the economic cuts to which these policies have been subjected are a reality. I believe that in this legislature the Spanish Government has made a huge setback in policies that have to do with the fight against violence against women, and I therefore believe that denying it is as much as failing to tell the truth. Then, just to tell Mrs Urrea that with the refusal to vote for the constitution of a paper, in the case of the Socialist Group, it is not that we are against that paper. In fact, in the eighth parliamentary term in this Parliament a paper was produced, which was born in December 2005, and completed its report with approval almost two and a half years later. We understand that this is an important enough issue for this created paper to come to an end; we can debate, reflect and do what this Basque Parliament has to do in terms of gender-based violence, as the paper was called at the time, and we believe that creating it now, almost at the end of the parliamentary term, would be something like letting the issue die, since the paper would die with the parliamentary term. Therefore, we understood that this presentation, which we consider fundamental in the matter of reflection, because the law that was adopted in 2004 probably deserves modifications, updating the situation that is now being experienced and with all the progress that has been made by the policies of the autonomous communities, the municipalities and the entities working in the field of gender-based violence... And, therefore, this group undertakes that if you, us or anyone else, propose at the beginning of the next parliamentary term the constitution of this paper, of course we will find ourselves there, because I think it is an issue to think about and important enough not to let him die, because in six months it does not give time to make the reflection that this issue deserves. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u124	Thank you, Miss Rojo. From EH Collect, Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u125	Yes, I believe that a number of fundamental issues must be pointed out. Indeed, there are no partial answers to an issue that requires a comprehensive approach, which requires a comprehensive response, in order to truly focus on our political agenda, the eradication of Machist violence as a political priority, as a political problem of the highest order. In that regard, it should be mentioned that we have been in a law of equality for ten years, which has been characterized by systematic non-compliance. And this must be mentioned, because this law directly influences those multiple macho violences that we also live here. The Spanish State's Gender Violence Act has also been in force for eleven years. It is a law that has become obsolete, it is a law that does not adapt right now to the needs that are being met, and a review needs to be made, and this is very clear. But above all I think it is very important, when it comes to these kinds of issues, to speak sincerely. And to speak sincerely is to establish resources for what we carry out. And, of course, what we see is that precisely in this budgetary agreement of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party there are 35 million euros, and there is nothing intended for equality policies. Of course, that is where we see that the honesty of what one proposes is really not reflected. Nor do we see, even in this pact, nor do we see in the budgets of the Basque Government. Mr Urkullu, EUR 6 million for equality policies, EUR 6 million from a budget of EUR 11 billion. It's just that I think this says it all. This is the graphic representation of what equality policies represent for the Basque Government. Do you really think we're going to move on and make that social change with 6 million euros? Objectively, I don't think so, and it's not serious. If we really want to move forward – and I am putting it to Mrs Leixuri – and it is believed that this proposal is not really the right one, then I propose one thing to you: to approve the partial amendment proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu on budgetary matters, with more than a considerable amount, to carry out an integral strategy in the field of macho violence not only in terms of the physical part, but in an integral way, to eradicate the set of macho violence. I mean, going to the root. We have made a proposal, let's see the honesty of your words, let's not get wind of them. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are very comfortable here, you political leaders, without blushing, without feeling ashamed, only putting as a focus or as a political priority the eradication of Machist violence on 25 November, but in reality – I will say one thing – you really care about the eradication of structural violence, which is the one that generates Machist violence. Because it cannot be possible for you to have enough of the facade of a parliament with a lilac point, or a very beautiful institutional declaration, but which remains in the drawer and which serves to allow you to sleep calmly, to cover and cover your consciences on the 364 days of the year. Please, let's not be cynical. Let's not be cynical. If we really want to be honest, we want to talk and we want to eradicate macho violence in all its magnitudes, we are going to take steps, we are going to show it, and as a starting point we are going to talk about resources, we are going to show that will. There is a proposal on the part of EH Bildu on budgetary matters. Have the courage to approve this proposal, because otherwise we will continue to see how those 6 miserable millions of euros are going to achieve absolutely nothing, because the eradication of sexist violence and that transition to equality goes through an integral approach, which, of course, is not to manage the existing. Of course, if we want to put equality and that eradication of the structural violence that generates all the violence, we have to give a fairly considerable transit, which of course does not go through declarations of intent, or through patching up and making proposals for minimums in the face of a problem that has to have political priority, which has to be the number one problem on our agenda to eradicate it. In that case, if this were to happen, we would have in front of us, we would be fully with you to move forward. But unfortunately, we're in the antepods right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. And finally, Madame Arriguega, the Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Urrea – the question is addressed to you – do you sleep quietly after coming here to make the paper? His party is the party of incoherence: depending on where he governs, we do one thing or we do another. Yes, yes! Because you talk to me about the importance of creating papers, and it turns out that in the past legislature you were ruling in the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, and in the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation you can also launch papers. In fact, they did so on the subject of energy poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u128	Quiet, Gold.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u129	And yet they did not even create it to approve the second Foral Equality Plan 2013-2020, which covered an important space of time to create that paper, nor did they create it to approve the Foral Standard for Equality of Women and Men. Then he didn't have to. In this case, the approach of equality technicians and politicians is fully relied upon when designing and adopting the most appropriate policies to address equality. Then he tells us that we have to address this in an integral way and so on. That is, that you are not worthy of the specific plan that we have presented or that was presented here in July. But then it turns out that in the City Hall of Iruña, in May of this same year, there is a campaign of prevention and public awareness "For a party free of sexist aggressions". This is the same as Beldur Barik Guneak. It's the same thing, what the Iruña City Council set in motion in the past sanfermines. And what are the data? The data are that, with regard to the specific category of crimes against sexual freedom, the group of police officers has collected four complaints of attempted sexual assault, compared to the five reported in 2014. And one of them we know was very serious, that it appeared in the media, how a woman, a girl, was assaulted in a bathroom in a bar during the feast of San Fermín. So, it seems to you little to implement these kinds of plans, but that's what they put into practice where you rule. Sounds interesting to me. So, if anyone thinks that by the art of birlibirloque this is going to disappear from the root, then it's very wrong. We have nothing more to do with and analyse the latest data, as has already been mentioned, from the study carried out by the Basque Government's Office for Sociological Prospecting on violence against women in Euskadi, to see the background of all this, which is much deeper. Indeed, the latest known data on sexual assaults in Euskadi indicated a 5% increase, but it is also fair to say that the data provided include the dates of January to June, and hence that in July Beldur Barik Gunea was presented and launched in July 2015. We still need to analyze and evaluate the results in the municipalities that implemented the plan, and check whether it has been possible to promote an attitude of empowerment in girls to face this problem and an attitude of responsibility and interpellation in boys. But let's give him a chance, just like it's been done in Iruna. Let us analyse the results, improve if the actions are necessary, and give it more publicity. Above all, spread, and join forces. Speaking of broadcasts, Ararteko in office said, Julia Hernández, in August of this year, in the media, who believes that there has been an increase in reports of sexual assaults because women no longer keep quiet, no longer consent to touching and denounce them. And he called not to fall into alarmism. And that's good, that women don't shut up is good; it's the result of these awareness and visualization campaigns launched in recent years. It's a long way, but we have to keep going. And, in conclusion, I should like to take advantage of this opportunity, to thank for the interest and complication of the municipalities which have contributed to the Place of Feare, and to enable them to continue in the course of the following years, by finding more and more operators and companions. And we call the councils who have not participated in it, to be encouraged; as I have said before, it is a work which ought to be done among them all. And in conclusion, I want to thank all the teams for their half-way signing. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. And we'll vote for the popular Euscals, Euskal Sozialists, Misto-UPyDs and the Middle Amendments that the Euzians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 50; counters 0; white 0; 0; Abstension, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-26.u131	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. I shall next read an institutional expression, on account of the international day against the violence of women: "By the 25th of the bazar, which is the date which the United Nations have named in order to abolish the international day against women, we wish to express our firmest condemnation to every expression of violence against women, whatever it may be (fistic, psychological, sexual, symbolic... ), as well as with all the forms of sex, which are most refined and normal, as with the application of stereotyped roles according to sex, or with the fact that women are not visible in many circles of life. "We wish also to confirm, that we are in the presence of an innate problem, and, as the lack of equality between women and men is founded, it is indispensable to exercise politics of equality, as the experts and international institutions recommend it. "The violence against women rests on the structure of society. for still different opportunities are offered to women and men, and the freedom of men is limited by birth. We must try to build a different society, where all men will have freedom to be as they please, where they will have opportunity to develop with perfect potentiality, and where they will receive an equal and respectful treatment with regard to human rights. "We aspire to live in a society that guarantees good treatment for all people, a society that takes one step further and, in addition to demonstrating itself against violence against women, manifests itself clearly in favour of the equality of women and men. We advocate a society in which relations between people are based on respect, autonomy and equality. Respecting not only means not assaulting, it also means ensuring that each person can draw his or her life path without the limitation of inequality. "From the institutions we must assume our social and political responsibility in building a society that promotes good treatment, starting with the personal and collective exercise of reviewing our daily prejudices, roles and attitudes. "For all that reason, we are engaged in the sphere of our hands in favor of the equality of active policy, integrated and co-ordinated policy between women and men. "And we invite the people to take personal and collective commitments to equality, every day of the year, and to share the events of November 25, and to perform them." Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-seven.
