ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I inform you that the thirteenth and sixteenth points have been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of Amaia Argrea Romanate Eubert, a member of the society of Common-wealths, and the chief physician of Society, concerning the measures which the profession will receive for the more or less weak collective condition." Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. The profession detributes a great deal of resources for employment and formation, and for programmes of socialization, both personal and financial. According to the foregoing, they demand 494 million euros for socialization, 226 million dollars for jobs, and 111 million Euro; in total, 832 million euros. Eunerative patriot wants to know exactly the means which the profession dedicates to each of the significant groups which are going wrong. Over the course of the legislature we have discussed countless issues relating to employment, training, social inclusion, and also Lanbide-related issues. When we talk about unemployment rates, we have insisted and agreed on the spokespeople of the different groups in which behind these numbers, the cold numbers, are people with different realities and very different needs. We have always expressed concern about the harmful consequences of the lack of employment for the most vulnerable people and groups, always putting in value the Basque system of social protection, which prevents many people from falling into social exclusion. Among these groups we will point out young or older people, the unemployed and unemployed, people with disabilities, people at risk of exclusion... We would like you to explain to us what other groups, in addition to those we have mentioned, separately contemplate in the department, and what concrete measures related to the employment, training and social inclusion of these groups you plan to continue to develop Lanbide. What we want to know is the amount allocated to each of these groups in the various general headings of training, social inclusion and employment managed by Lanbide. Because budgets, as it could not otherwise be, give us abundant information from a budgetary logic, but they do not go into detail in explaining the concrete measures that are devoted in each programme or service for each of these particularly vulnerable groups, nor the amounts allocated to each of the groups. It is, therefore, our question to-day, how exactly the profession will contribute to the formation, employment, and society of these particular groups, by explaining, if possible, the exact sum of money. And in advance I thank you for the explanation you will give, and we encourage you to continue working for these collectives. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u3	The head of the legislative table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good day. As we said last week in the presentation of the past, there must be a lot of programs to consider your question, Ms. Amaia Argrei, to respond. On the one hand, the program of socialization or of the Sociational Inculium. We've prepared 494 million euros for this program, that is to say, 46% of what we have for the whole department of Eplegu and Society. That's where the rent (RGI), support for social emergency and additional (PCV) expenditures (PCV) are taken into account. For us, it's a program to consider, because it really brings good consequences to the whole system, but above all, especially to those who go wrong. On the other hand, we have other programmes: the Employment Programme, with an amount of 226 million euros (21% of the department's budget); the training programme, with another 111 million euros (10% of the budget)... And if we add to this the relative part of the structure and support, 822 million euros are allocated to the financing of Lanbide. But, above all, behind these numbers there are people. There are people who don't have a good time. We are talking about 400,000 people who are looking for employment, or are employed, and Lanbide provides services to them to improve their employment, their quality, and to maintain them. We are talking about particularly vulnerable groups. We are talking about long-term unemployed, people with disabilities, people at risk of exclusion, immigrants. If we specify, from Lanbide we allocate to these vulnerable groups the following items: actions of training for employment through the financing of training resources for employment insertion, more than 46 million, reaching almost 100,000 people; programmes of employment promotion through bonuses and aids for special employment centres and insertion companies, and collaboration also in the financing of local employment plans (127 million, and approximately 60,000 beneficiaries). Among other programs, I would remark the vast offer of service to companies. We use 34 million euros for programs like this, and around 16.000 people make a profit. So we work together with special employment centers, help the indefinite contraction of persons who have dissecacity, and finance the employment programs for those who are called in the common market. Knowing that the descendants in our society are themselves, the different programmes have been introduced through profession. We use 10 million euros for the World's Inclusion, to promote employment, or for the hiring of young people. In summary, I will provide you with some information that brings us very close to your question. It caters to 400,000 people, and it goes to unemployed people 200 million euros, to people with disabilities 38 million euros, to young people...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Toña...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u5	...under thirty-five years 10 million euros, people at risk of exclusion...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u6	Thank you, Mr. Toña...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u7	Five hundred...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Time's up. [[Barres]] Second point on the subject list: "Ask me, Daniel Mazzu Perez EH collect members of the team to the president, that the Spanish Government is an appeal to the law announced by the United States in connection with "franking" and "about the state of the Euskuke." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u9	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning to Mr. President, too. The week before, a member of the Polopulative Party made a detailed statement about the law that this parliamentary parliamentist made around the Eucommene's attitude in the neighbourhood of the Friacing Act. He agreed to the law and the next day he was calling "Molly" to recite that law, and he mentioned that he sent down his detailed reports to Madrid. And those words made us curious, among other things, because we've already asked you two questions. The U.S. Committee, when the Spanish States announce the resources of this kind, is formed by this special committee, to see if there has been an assembly, to see if this committee of the U.S.C. has been convoked, and we have received no answer at the moment. So we're curious what's going on with this law. The questions are exact: Did you call me Madrill about this law? In what way? Have you sent a report? What for? And to say what? That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. Mazetu, as far as I can see, you've obviously changed your initial question, and what you've already formulated has nothing to do with what you've written. Anyway, there's no problem. The official New Year's delegation, as well as the Solicitor of the Constitution Court, in case of the 33rd of the Constitution Court of Justice. the second section of the article is addressed to my section of the Two Tables, which appears in this second section of the Article. This committee of the two is under his control, and the first meeting of this business was yesterday, after you had asked your question for a few days. What was it proposed yesterday? Only the first contact, too, was other matters. Only the first contact, and the central Government was about to make a proposal. Our position, as has been well said, is, that both the President and I, in my turn, defend the jurisdiction of the member of the Autonomy, which is evidently the case with the central Government in its attack, since the material content of that law is not opposed to the Constitution, but that this Parliament has no jurisdiction to give it that law. It is therefore all that is here to defend our jurisdiction, and to do it calmly, because this government will do all its efforts and all that is to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you for your explanation. So we need to understand that there hasn't been any contact until yesterday between the Basque and the Madrid government about the franchise law. If not, tell me in your second round, because we want you to know that too. So far there hasn't been any contact? We gave them credit on the previous week, not only because of the facts given by the member of the Pogula Party, but because the steps given by the EukokMorsk have given credit to those words since the admission of that law. In the first place, when the President said that the law was admitted by PNV that the State could resurrect, and for us the President is not the President of PNV, but the Euscal Autonomy, and consequently the laws approved by this legislature are to be maintained. What was he warning you about? The legislative has agreed to a law, and that is what is to be observed. We believed these words, even because Mrs. Tapia (in this case, the head of the Industrial and Energy) has made it very clear that you continue to examine conventional fuels, even though there was a law in force. And we give them the credibility, even if we read the budget plan, because they're precise fueling and not conventionally tested games, and in this case they're inside Gran Ena's license. And we give these words credit, even to the fact that we haven't been asked any answer until now, whether the FAB Committee was convoked or not, and there were reports or calls on Madrid. So all these steps, all these expressions, all these initiatives, all of you or the government's initiatives, prove that this government is still pursuing the project of the franchise. And we must remember that it is a law approved by the legislature, and that you must execute or fulfil it. So that's what we wanted to know, and I hope now you're answering me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mazetu, you've left for the second turn the direct question. I don't have a problem answering. Before yesterday's meeting, officers, from a department with official ability to do so, but the only aim of these contacts has been to determine the time of yesterday's meeting, the date, conditions, and the list of subjects. And as I said to you, the official delegation of fun belongs to my department, and my department has some spokes to him for that, and that was their sole occupation. From that point on, you tell me, I don't know whose words are credible to you. It's all right that one of the EH Collectors should give credit to the statements of a parlamentary party on the Polula. It's a little strange and new in the political environment we're living in, but it's okay to act like that. The President said they could be affirmed to be proposed, or at some point. Well, that's so obvious, that it may be recurryed, considering that, in all cases, or other similar laws have been tested in the Parliaments and resurrected in other communities, some of them have been interrupted, some have been suspended, others having been accused of having been accused of having been accused of having been accused of having been accused of having been accused of having been accused of having been accused of having been committed by the contrary judgments, and of having been the closest part of our law, that is to say, the next part of the community has been debasssure, which has been already received, but remains rejected, this law must be announced too soon, and ought not to be taken notice of. That's obvious. What will happen from now on? We don't know. We shall see what manner of planning the central Government does at the Committee of the Two Courts, and according to this our planning will always be to defend our jurisdictions. Definning of the Euscal Autonomy of the Esquires, having a right to give or to resist this law, which is at the present time a question of doubt. And for that, we don't need no aspabytes. We'll be defending hands as we are now, hard and steady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Third point in theme list: "The question is, that Michael Unzalu Hermosa, a member of the Socialists of the Union, was made to the President, the function of the public service of terrorism." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u17	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, EIB must be a public service in order to deprive terrorism of its rights. It's an ethical need. But if it's a commitment to the present management, too. And he took this engagement upon himself after a hard work of consent, in which we Socialists were together with EAJ and Popular Party. To announce in the public broadcast media that at a certain time a programme on Basque political prisoners is to be broadcast is not to comply with the commitments made by the same broadcaster, nor by your Government, nor by yourself, Mr Lehendakari. And what am I going to tell you about the content! The introduction tells us about the conflict, and in the development of the program the people who appear in it are victims of it. Yes, Mr. Lehendakari, with all due respect: victims, not victims. The documentary "Windows inside" presents us to five people who have been convicted by the justice system, but no explicit mention is made of the consequences of the terrorist activity that they exercised or supported. Issuing such a programme does not exactly help to preserve the memory and dignity of the victims. Euskadi has a challenge for coexistence: to admit that there was no reason to kill anyone, that no political cause can be placed above human rights. And from the institutions, from the public service of radio and television, we must be active and insistent on promoting that principle, so that we can never again repeat what we have suffered in Euskadi. That is why I ask you whether you consider the lehendakari that the Basque public television service responds to the institutional and majority commitment of this Chamber of delegitimization of terrorism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I wonder whether I consider that the public service of Basque public television responds to the institutional and majority commitment of this Chamber of delegitimization of terrorism, and I say yes, without a doubt. The public service of EITB responds to the institutional and majority commitment of this Chamber of delegitimization of terrorism. Comply with this commitment. It does not seem proportionate to question it because of the assessment that might arise from the issuance of a documentary to which you refer, Mr Unzalu. It does not seem to be provided, because this documentary was made in 2012 without any participation of EITB or the Basque Government. At that time, it was further urged to be illegal, and the courts found no basis for it by raising or legitimizing terrorism. As a result, the documentary has been freely aired in cinemas and cultural centres. However, Mr Unzalu, I do not share the documentary's point of view, I do not at all share your acritic view with the past. However, respecting pluralism means being willing to listen to opinions that we do not like. The plurality of our society's views must have a channel in EITB, provided that they do not lead to the rise or legitimization of terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Unzalu, your word is de.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u21	Thank you, Mr Lehendakari, for the answer, but I must insist that I think we have different views, you and the Socialists, on this. I will start by telling you that you have certified the express commitment of socialists to build a memory. In addition, we share that the recognition of the victims "contains an expression of solidarity and humanity in the face of the injustice suffered by the victims, an affirmation of the democratic values that, in the midst of violence, fought to defend peace, and a pedagogy of radical delegitimization of any aggression that forgets that human rights, especially the right to life, are unavailable". And this sentence is yours, Mr. lehendakari, of your government. It is in the document that was forwarded in September to the municipalities. And that wasn't exactly in the documentary that EITB issued. And it is not worth appealing that you are not responsible for the contents, as you have done. If you demand proactivity from municipalities and society in general to delegitimize terrorism, you must do the same with ETB. We have also talked about freedom of expression, you have done so, but look at how freedom of expression is dealt with in the public media of Basque public television: on the one hand, this program, "Windows inside", is broadcast at the hour of maximum audience, and on the other hand, "Reconciliation", which in this case did speak of the real victims who have suffered in Euskadi during the years of terrorism. And what am I going to tell you about other programs vetoed by ETB management. In ETB, Mr Lehendakari, from our point of view, victims are treated with more dignity than victims of terrorism; and I am referring to concrete evidence: programmes that are not broadcast because they are vetoed by the ETB leadership, or programmes like this, "Reconciliation", which are relegated, after "Windows inside". Socialists want public and plural television, and we want it above all ethically, Mr Lehendakari, with irrefutable principles, and that is not the case today. We urge you, Mr Lehendakari, to take letters on the matter. You're legitimized for it, and I think it's your responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u22	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u23	Mr. Unzalu, you're talking to me about the Socialist Party engagement, and you're also questioning EIB's engagement. What I have to say is, EITB reveals a complete commitment to promote peace and partnership. The desertion of terrorism and violence is a function of all institutions, a work to do together, and ACTIVE has always shown his commitment to this purpose. The EITB itself, Mr Unzalu, wanted to remember that it has unequivocally condemned the use of violence. He wanted to make it clear that the issue of this documentary in no way presupposes sharing his thesis or content. The EITB itself acknowledged that its issue required a context of situation and explanation. Your broadcast, in this sense, was not timely, Mr Unzalu. EITB itself admitted that it made a mistake using the term "political prisoners" in its press release; an error which it immediately corrected by giving the appropriate explanations. The EITB leadership has sought to reaffirm its commitment to social awareness of the delegitimization of terrorism; its commitment to the dissemination and promotion of civic values of tolerance, freedom and plurality. And I think it is worth remembering today that EITB defended this commitment at very hard times, and that it was even the direct object of an ETA attack. All key institutions in our country are clearly and firmly committed to violence, and to coexistence. Also EITB. The Government promotes this. That's how I'm asked, that's how he promotes it, that's how he will continue to promote it, and that's how he practices it. Therefore, it is not fair, nor positive, nor proportionate to question it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth theme in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the president about not keeping basic principles in Osar elections." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. We asked Mr Lehendakari a question about Osakidetza's selection processes. This is not the first time we have asked this question to the Executive, but irregularities have been committed in several selection processes (the People's Party does not say so, the courts have found this), and one of them must be said to be quite significant, because it affects the former Health Adviser, Mr Inclán. The judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country confirms the judgment of the Court of Dispute-Administrative No. 6 of Bilbao, and annuls the granting of the position of head of section of Internal Medicine of the Hospital de Cruces. The consequence of this pronouncement is that Mr Inclán has had to leave the square, and he is ordered to repeat the selective process. The judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country clearly states that the award was not in accordance with the law, that the principles of transparency and publicity were clearly violated, and that there were defects in the composition of the court and in the criteria of barredness. There have been some other significant cases, such as that of the position of head of Dermatology Service of the University Hospital of Álava. And the sentence in this case also clearly spoke of abuse of power, because the person who had obtained the highest score was not appointed. We raised a similar question to Mr Lehendakari a few months ago, which the Health Adviser answered. Let us hope that on this occasion we will be lucky enough to have Mr Lehendakari answer us. In this particular case, we reformulate it, because this sentence is already firm: we want to know what the Basque Government's motives are for violating, and in this case in such a clear way, the existing legality, and failing to comply with the principles inherent in any selection process, clearly prioritizing the party interests of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. Darpón is a representative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Mrs Garrido, I suppose you will understand why I am going to answer you, but the first thing I would like to say is that your ignorance of what the selection and supply processes are in the public administrations is notorious. I can only think of the questions you asked me, because I don't want you to think this is a personal matter. Look, this government is responsible, and it sets out the selection procedures for which it is responsible. You know that the specific case in which you have been involved, or in which you have been involved, is a public body governed by private law. In this process, therefore, this Government has not directly carried out any activity. So, Mrs Garrido, this government does not break its legal and legal principles, nor the fundamental principles of the choice. Of course, you have every right to question us as often as you see fit; now it is clear that the only interest is to discredit the Government for the fact that one of the participants in the selection process to which you have referred is a former Health Adviser. But, look, today he is an active Osakidetza professional, with all his rights to participate in the selection processes that public entities or public administrations call for. I'd just miss it! Look, the management of the services organizations of the public body Osakidetza, within the autonomy that the law assigns to them, have the power to convene the selection processes for the coverage of the leadership positions (by the way, competitive positions; we don't talk about free designation, we talk about competitions). For this reason, within the powers of the managers, they convene the selective processes of chiefs and are responsible for carrying out all the necessary actions for their development, such as those you have listed: the appointment of the court, the appointments, the staff, etc. The selection courts in Osakidetza are also independent, subject to the basis of the calls and the law, and their decisions are binding on the Administration. Although, as it cannot be otherwise, remedies may be available to appropriate administrative bodies or courts of justice. And have no doubt, the Basque Government firmly believes in the separation of powers and its independence. And accepting and respecting this implies that when there is a final court ruling, it is complied with, enforced and enforced. As has been done, Mrs. Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u29	Well, counselor, it's just that the court rulings or rulings were missing, this government said it's not going to comply with them and it's not going to comply with them! But if you have read the sentences, I imagine you will have read them (not rereaded, because I think they are very clear), in relation to the irregular performance in the provision of these places, in this case by contest... They say the sentences, and I think that the case of the contest we are talking about is very significant, because Mr Inclán, former – what a coincidence – of the government of the Basque Nationalist Party, was appointed. What do you want me to tell him, he's getting a lot of attention. That appointment has been annulled, and therefore Mr Inclán has had to leave his post. I do not doubt the professionalism of Mr Inclán, but it is clear that irregularities have been committed and the principles inherent in a selection process have not been complied with, in this case in Osakidetza. I was going to tell Mr Lehendakari to see if the third one is beaten and he answers me, but I hope that there will be no third time and that, therefore, with this question we will not see new cases such as these on the pages of the newspapers, and that we will then have to see them in the sentences, which, as I say, are very enlightening. I think we are talking about clear intrusions into the selection processes, behind which party interests are hidden, because the squares have been given to people to whom they did not belong, separating the people to whom they really belonged. Not, moreover, Mr Inclán's case: there have been other very significant cases in which this Government has had to rectify. Therefore, for us, we are faced with clear cases of plugging, where amigoism and appointments to professionalism in a public service such as Osakidetza have been put forward – and the case of Mr Inclán is clear.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u30	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u31	Mrs Garrido, I am very happy to respond in areas that I believe are within my competence. But, look, don't be blinded by political rivalry. Read the sentence again. The High Court of Justice has not at any time stated that this Government fails to comply with the basic principles in the selection processes. He didn't say. Nor has he claimed responsibility from any member of the court, nor from the court itself. He has also not asked the Administration for responsibilities; he has not even condemned him to cost. What he has said is that the proceedings should be withdrawn at the time of drafting the bases, and that a member of the VATP should be included in the qualifying court, which, by the way, was not in the other court that you mentioned, because it is the first time in twelve years – and there has been more – that a member of the VATP is requested from the judicial point of view. Now, since it speaks so much about legality, I have to say that the current regulatory landscape, to a large extent generated by you, is neither facilitator nor guarantor, due to the multiplicity of existing rules, to which must be added the singularity that the statutory regime has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Five point in theme list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team made to the president to protect Colpism in Catalonia." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u33	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. Last Sunday the president of his political party (i.e. Mr Ortuzar) announced that his political party would be the next day in the Parliament of Catalonia to show its support for Mas and the Catalan people in the illegal process of breaking up set in motion. The Basque caste (i.e. the Basque Nationalist Party, i.e. its political party) thus showed its support for an illegal process, contrary to the Spanish Constitution, which is breaking down Catalan society. Go ahead, it seems to me a shameful exercise of hypocrisy and cowardly politics: an illegal process is supported in Catalonia, while in Euskadi there is supposed to be another path, at least for the moment. This certainly seems to me to be an exercise in hypocrisy and cowardice. The usual, on the other hand, in the Basque Nationalist Party. But, going to the questions I wanted to ask you, do you support, as your own political party supports, this process of illegal break-up? And who do you specifically support? To the corrupt of the three percent?, to those who have the sieges?, to those who have fractured Catalan society?, to those who have managed to get Catalonia down to a junkyard?, to those who violate the current legality? To whom or to whom exactly does the Basque Nationalist Party support? And who do you support? As a matter of fact, Mr Lehendakari, do you support the Catalan coup-makers?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, no matter how hard I try, I'm not going to fall for your provocations. Look, I could go back to the consequences of decisions against Convergence i Union by political groups not winning the autonomic elections, which we could also talk about a lot about in relation to what is also respect for decisions in the Basque Parliament. But I am going to focus on the fact that we find at least the origin of this situation, to say the least on more recent dates five years ago: the Constitutional Court laminated a statute of autonomy that had been approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, the Congress and the Senate, and that had been ratified in a referendum by the Catalan people. No blows, Mr. Maneiro. For five years the Catalan institutions have called for dialogue and negotiation, which has been systematically denied by the Spanish Government. On 27 September, democratic elections were held in Catalonia in which, with very high participation, citizens elected their institutional representatives to Parliament with absolute freedom. On 9 November last Parliament, constituted in a legal and democratic manner, adopted a declaration which was endorsed by the absolute majority of elected representatives. This statement again calls for the opening of a negotiation to respond to a political demand. The answer has been judicial, but the political question remains unanswered and unanswered. And the judicial response has been to suspend that statement. In principle, suspend it. I support the appeals to freedom and democracy, the closeness and attention to the voice of the people; I respect the process of Catalonia; I defend the path of agreement and the pact, and I appeal in this regard also to the words of President Mas, in which he declares that there is time for political dialogue. This is what I demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u37	You know, lehendakari, what does UPyD claim? In Catalonia and anywhere in the country, the law is enforced and enforced, the Spanish Constitution is respected and enforced. That's what we demand, anywhere in the country. Because the best way to defend democracy is to abide by judicial decisions and the law itself. And you haven't been able to say this. And, therefore, what is coming is to defend an illegal resolution and an illegal process, and therefore a coup d'état, which is what has recently been committed in Catalonia. What do we therefore propose, in addition to compliance and enforcement? Evidently, activating the criminal route. Activate the criminal route, and also activate article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, which, by the way, aims not to suspend autonomy in Catalonia, but to restore the rights of all. This is what Article 155 seeks to do. And, therefore, we demand that Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution also be activated. But what I certainly find embarrassing is that our lehendakari supports a process that is clearly illegal. You, who are the representative of the State in our Autonomous Community. And this is certainly what we find absolutely shameful. The Basque Nationalist Party (i.e. its political party) said it supported this illegal process, and therefore aligned itself with the Catalan coups, and you have done the same again. What you should do is defend democracy and defend the existing legality, and censor what has been activated in Catalonia, which is an illegal process of breaking up Catalan society itself. Certainly sad, therefore, Mr Lehendakari, that we have a Lehendakari who is incapable of defending democracy, current legality and the rule of law. Certainly unfortunate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, it is clear that your concept of democracy and mine are not the same. You have referred to what UPyD defends on the basis of prejudices, calling it an illegal process, without taking into account what I said in the first intervention: that I call for a political dialogue to solve a political problem, from respect for legitimate and democratically constituted institutions. Look, you know what I'm defending? I defend legality to provide avenues for resolving citizens' demands, not as a corset to ban ideas, Mr Maneiro. I support the fact that all political ideas can be raised and carried out freely by democratic means. I have reiterated the need to address the construction of the political future from dialogue and agreement, from the politics and values of democracy. To solve a problem begins by recognizing it, and the Kingdom of Spain must recognize its plurinational reality. This is no time for fronts. It would have been a good thing, and I would have hoped so, that at the meetings held in Moncloa, Zarzuela, the Council of State, the Constitutional Court, there would have been an in-depth and political reflection. And I demand that in the future this situation can be addressed in order to give and offer viability and a solution to the crisis of the territorial model of State. The easy and opportunistic has already been done; the difficult, to build, is to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interlation, made by the Congress of the Homeer Barbadillo EH Collectors to the President, in regard to the positions which the State can assume against the Parliament of Catalonia." Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u41	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. At last what we expected has happened: The Constitutional Court of Spain has abandoned the resolution of the Parlaments of Catalonia. And not only so, but the Government has threatened, saying that he will use all his machine against what Parlament has decided, and that the whole State has also been placed behind him. The whole state, the king too, head. "The Prevalence." Besides, we have been told that the Popular Party, the Social Party, and Ciudadanos have also agreed in a state treaty. And we don't think this state treaty will end on December 20th. We believe that after the 20th of December this state will extend, because it is not one part, but the whole state, which lies behind it. And this state is opposed to what Catalonia can decide as a free people. And besides, we must consider that in this way they have attacked a parliament like this. He has been attacked by a definite threat to certain select ones: In this case, they have made a direct threat to Carme Forcadelli, the head of the government of Artur Mas, and to the exact selection of another 19. Moreover, the whole autonomy of Catalonia and its principal institutions have given a clear threat: "Take care of what you do, or perhaps it will end your power." And what it concludes is that Spain does not admit, much less respect, which Catalonia can decide. what can be decided by the Catalonia will never respect or accept, as you have said before, because the Spanish kingdom does not admit that the nation possesses in it, and that these nations possess a power to determine their future in a free and democratic manner. On Monday, some of us here were lucky to be in Parliament. We were there, in Barcelona, at Parlament, and we went there hoping we could touch a bit of history with our fingers. And it was, or at least we lived like that. For us, really, it was an historic moment. It's a big moment. A people, represented by their principal institution, advanced, and decided to set up its efficient process. It's really historic. It's really eulogy. In the end, what Parlament decided was to stop being an autonomical parliament in Spain, and then to begin working as a national and independent parliament. That is to say, to build their independence by their decisions, and to make a complete efficient process. I mean, it's a sort of eulogy. We think EH Collect thinks that's the only way. In this state, which denies us, this is the only way. It is the only way, first and foremost, that the inhabitants of the Catalurians should be able to determine their or our future with freedom and democracy. It's the only way, that's all. And, on the other hand, that's the only way, even to democratize the Spanish State itself. Because it needs to be demotratized. He's not democratized and we need to force him to Democratize. And this can only be done from the nations where we are present, by means of our efficient processes. In Catalonia, as here, from the very beginning, and you mentioned it before, there was an uproar in the conversation. The interview has been announced at all times from its institutions. Not just the interview, but the need for negotiation and agreement. That's how they wanted to do the whole process, and it was impossible. They won't let them do it like that. But there, unlike here, in front of the closed state's attitude, Catalonia, as soon as she announced the conversation, preferred to step forward. They have continued to proclaim the matter, and in the presence of the constant refusal they have determined to advance. So that in the face of every block they went forward to proclaim conversation, negotiation, and the necessity of agreement. And that's how they got to the stage today. And it's true that today's stage is complex and difficult, because it's hard to move forward. But at the moment, there in Catalonia, retreat is impossible. And all the political forces involved in this process know that. It's impossible to go back. And let us not forget that the way of freedom is always more difficult than to assume dependence. All nations which have ever succeeded in becoming state in all parts of the world have made the means of freedom, and they know that it is a means of difficulty. We can't forget that, even here. If we think it'll be possible without staining our shoes, we'll have to stain our shoes and we'll have to be ready for that. We accept that right now there is no particular interest in discussing and deciding on the issue of the right to decide, but we also believe that it has been exhausted, the wild card of the self-government presentation has definitely expired. It has ended, because, in breach of the electoral promise of the proposing political group (yours, Mr Lehendakari), there will be no political proposal, no articulated text or consultation in this legislature. There won't be any of this. In this way we have to say, again we have to denounce from this rostrum, because we have no other place to be able to do so, that the paper has become the perfect alibi for not debating, not agreeing, not deciding and not consulting, and not resigning. We do not resign, and we want to debate, we want to agree, we want to decide and we want to consult, and we want to use the instruments provided by this institution to be able to do so. And that is why we see ourselves in the need, in recent times, even to claim the right to debate in this House on these kinds of issues, because unfortunately the possibility is also being denied that we can discuss these kinds of issues in this House. And we agree that we are discussing the economic concert or the LTH, but we also have to discuss these kinds of issues. And you can't keep using self-government as a wild card so you don't. And if we are not able to do all this, which is our responsibility, at least let us be able to support, accompany and help those who are demonstrating their ability to do so, i.e. the Catalan people and the Catalan institutions. We want..., we would like to have a Basque government that is not distinguished by its loyalty to the Kingdom of Spain, but by its commitment to its people and the rights that democratically assist it. We want a government, in that sense, and a parliament, to take concrete measures, to agree on concrete measures to support, accompany and assist the Catalan Parliament and Government in this process. And if that Government, and of course this House, is willing to do so, they will have all the support and all the necessary provision by EH Bildu. We are ready to agree on concrete measures. If this is not ours, at least to support, assist and accompany the Catalan process, because we understand that the Catalan process is to a large extent also the Basque process. It is the process of a people who are fighting for their freedom within a state that oppresses it, and that State is the same that oppresses our people, who are also fighting for freedom. That way, EH Collect will not give up because what's at stake is too important. We were at Parlament, we were in Barcelona, and more than one asked us where the Basque people are. Many of them, and of different political forces, asked us, "Where are the citizens of Esscal? Where are you? "Well, here we are, here we are. The assembled EH, at least, we are here, ready to do this way, for the sake of the one who is ready to do it, and this is our proposition. Lehengo egunean Artur Masek, handik, drink inbetidura saioan esan zuen: "Subordination has a cost, freedom has a price, you have to know how to choose between taking the cost of subordination or paying the price of freedom". Hori esan zuen berak. Nik gauza bat gehituko dut: the price of freedom is very expensive, and well we know...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Your time is up too... Mr. Ray, please. Mr. Ray, please. Mr. Ray, please! - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. All right, Mr. Eriz, Mr. Artur Mas president you don't protect. It's okay. You mentioned here's a group of self-interests, you mentioned the right to decide, that there is no opportunity here to discuss, discuss, and what is it you've done until now, every time you've come down here? Have there not been a dispute about the right of deciding here, in this legislature? Weren't you a foot and a half outside the crew what you've been telling us about, instead of telling us at the staff meeting? Look, you're asking me what's going to happen, but I'm going to start with what I've done so far. I've had a very serious relationship with President Mass for many years, and we've been following closely the development of the political situation for years. We'll continue with the attitude we've shown so far. 'Esunk' has announced from the first day that Catalunania and Catalonia respects the decisions democraticly adopted by institutions. This is not an expression today, it's an old one, Mr. Eriz. And I want to remind you that, since I've been president, I've met President Mass three times since I've been president. We've had two meetings at the Ajuria-Hoan, and a third at the Generality residence in Barcelona. And so I think I could know better than anyone what Artur Mas really thinks and what he defends. We have discussed the state's attitude, the personal response and the path of the state together. We have found ourselves in the presence of the same reality. The gates of the State are closed, and the nation of the State is not allowed to be distinguished by the different nations. But we have come to a Catalonia and Basque, proposing the same purpose. In the modification of the State model, we are agreed upon a new model of states which will assume different characters and characters of the nation. We agree, too, when we plan this acceptance by conversation, negotiation, and agreement. Again, I shall remember an idea of very important: on this Monday the word "negation" was mentioned in the parliament of Catalonia. In this statement, though other things and other points have been admitted, the word negotiation is mentioned. And it is not, as you have said, the first time, in all the preliminary statements, that the organizations of Catalonia asked to open the dialogue and the negotiation. Thus they did, when the State was concluded, when they accepted the Consul Act, or demanded the prosecution. The negotiations have always been proposed, and now the negotiation has been proposed. President Mass himself, on the 27th of September, on the evening of the election, mentioned three words: Integration, cohesion and agreement. And the agreement, though concerning a new pattern. This has always been his attitude during these long years, and he still maintains that attitude. Mr Arraiz, the statement adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia must be analysed in its context. This proposal for a declaration follows a process which began, as I said earlier in the previous speech, at least five years ago, when the Constitutional Court laminated the Statute ratified by the Catalan people. This situation has been the result of the closure of the Spanish Government. The agreement between the Catalan parties and which had been approved by the Parliament of Catalonia was not respected, and instead of fulfilling the word given and respecting this plural parliamentary agreement, it was brushed out. It was also made public display of the same. Despite this, President Mas and the Catalan institutions went ahead, and submitted the Statute to a popular referendum. I'll say more. That even after the brushing and approval of the Statute in Congress and in the Senate, the People's Party organized a collection of signatures to present the remedy of unconstitutionality. And there was once again a great public display. The final result was that certain contents of the Statute were declared unconstitutional, once it had already been ratified in referendum by Catalan society. The People's Party has again ostentatically exhibited this laminate of the Catalan Statue. I believe that what we are experiencing today is the result of years of disencountering and tensioning political and institutional relations; that the result, on the other hand, is also distance, fracture, disorientation and uncertainty. The lack of political dialogue has been a constant feature of this legislature in Spain, and we also know it well in Euskadi. We have repeatedly called on President Rajoy to channel the economic agenda, peace and coexistence, and Basque self-government from the institutional and political agreement. The door is still closed, and we are aware that it will only be possible to open with a new attitude of political parties and a new government. You are talking about the disqualifications or threats to twenty-one institutional public offices, and we have also met them in Euskadi, Mr Arraiz. You are always calling on others, and I remind you that this Parliament has known the disqualification of its President and two members of the Bureau, unable to defend the autonomy of this Parliament. The autonomy of this Parliament in favour of the defence of the personality of its parliamentary group. I don't remember any accessions or recognitions on your part, Mr. Arraiz. Quite the opposite. I've shown the context of what's going on in the Catalonia, which we must consider to understand and appreciate the present situation. I told you what you did, but it wasn't the only one, that's the way it was. Today we meet at the Basque Act, and I'd like to remind you of an expression which has been granted a year ago by this parliament. Here, on account of the state of Catalonia, we accepted the expression of democracy and the popular will, Mr. Eriz. It's not today, we decided a year ago. It is plain, therefore, that this legislature has clearly expressed its opinion in the face of this trial. I, however, would like to repeat what I have defended several times: the problem is not in Catalonia or Euscadin, the problem is in Madrid, because all the bridges on the Spanish government have been broken. The real problem is that there is no answer from the Spanish Government, the profound problem is the model of state, its crisis. More serious than that, Spain refuses to seek out a political solution for this problem, which is my greatest concern. The question is, that they do not admit of our national character; they will not admit of the manifold nature of the state, which is composed of different nations. Until we admit that, until we have offered a political solution, there will be no solution. And in front of this problem, trying to build a new political future, we set up a caucdinade road, and Katalunia took another course at its moment, and it's not about the political pact or the economic pact. No, our path is our own, because our position and our history differ from each other; On the one hand, 40 years ago, at the time of the transition, our attitude was entirely different (then Catalunina started a road and took her own course from Euskakia), on the other hand, after the violence of the decades, we are obliged to encourage peace and co-exist here, and in this respect we are on the way to win confidence in the interests of all political parties. You know this and you know very well that it is necessary to build bridges between all parties to start or promote a new political future. This is, among other things, a peculiarity of the present state of Euskade. I return to Catalonia, Mr Arraiz, and I repeat that I know your own circumstances. I know them perfectly well. You're aware of my position, because you're public. I have had a permanent relationship with President Mas, with whom I have met, in addition to the former Vice-President and former Councillors. I've met with Mr. Mas on three occasions. I have transferred my support to you with closeness, and I am sincerely saddened that in these circumstances you do not do so to the person of Mr. Mas, (you or the political group with which you are related). We recognize and respect the path taken by Catalonia, just as Artur Mas recognizes and respects the path taken by Euskadi. That's what he said. From the beginning of my relationship with Artur Mas I raised a reflection on the model of state, the need to open political channels to respond to legitimate and majority aspirations in Catalonia and in Euskadi. I have transferred this offer to the authorities of the State, and on that path I will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u45	Good morning again. Agian entzuteko aukerarik ez da egon eta erepikatuko dut: that, if freedom has a very high price, in our opinion, the cost of subordination is simply unabsorbable. In that sense, you've mentioned what you've done in the past few years, and the only thing I've been able to tell you is that you have sometimes interviewed President Mass. I'm glad. You've probably interviewed the President of the Riox, and I don't think you've made any gestures or steps towards the Errixa trial, have you? I don't think it's enough to interview Mas. This arises in the case of the relations of institutions. But, as I believe, your expressions, the expressions you have here, place or place your government in another place, and in Catalonia there is absolutely no sign of your being near or off the positions there. Not at all. I would also like to remind you that the door that has been given to Catalonia has already been given to us here ten years ago, when what was called the Ibarretxe Plan, the plan for a new statute, was not even allowed to proceed. He wasn't even admitted to court. That doorway, that aggravation, is already here. And yet, it seems that we are still contemporating. With regard to the positions of submission, which everyone here can say and endorse his own trajectory as to when he has been immeasurable and when he has not been immeasurable, surely in this bench there will be more immeasurable than in others. In any case, I have no problem recognizing the step taken by the President of Parliament at that time, and the rest of the Bureau. I have no problem in recognizing it, although I believe they fulfilled their role, no more or less. I believe that there is a clear lack of will to take the road, and this Government is constantly relying on other kinds of issues to try to justify it, when I actually believe that what is important is that this political will is lacking to do so. We and we do not represent here any political party or political group of the Parliament of Catalonia. Before I mentioned that we were there, in the Parliament, and that we met with all the political forces in favour of the process (with Convergence, with Esquerra, and with the CUP), with all, and with all very good relationship and quite political coincidence around the time and around the steps that must be taken. And I would also like to recall that the delegation of EH Bildu attended that plenary invited by Junts for Yes. And our relationship there is with all the political forces in Catalonia, especially those involved in this process to bring it to the end. In fact, what we and we claim is that – not so much looking at Catalonia, but looking at our own – we put ours into action. And I have pointed out before, and I think it is important: does dialogue and the need for negotiation and agreement with the State have to be claimed? Yes, we have to keep vindicting him, of course we do. Does this mean that if there is no dialogue on the part of the State (that there is not, and there is not going to be) must we remain still?, must we remain still? For we and we say that no, that we must continue to move, that we must continue to take steps on the Basque path towards sovereignty. In Catalonia it is what they have done all this time: they have received noes continuously, and before every blockade, before every difficulty, they have had the capacity, they have had the creativity and talent necessary to bypass that difficulty and continue with the process forward. Why? Because there was political will everywhere. And we and we say: if there is political will on the part of the parties, here we have a parliamentary majority that only needs to be activated so that this process can also be launched from this institution. And to this day it is not put in place, that parliamentary majority is not activated, because there is a part that does not want it. Because there is a part that does not want it, and it has placed the debate in an instrument, in a presentation precisely so that that debate is not made, that it is not remembered, that it is not decided and that it is not consulted. However, we reiterate our readiness for dialogue, agreement, decision and consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ray, it's important to follow other people's references, but it's best to land in our territory, too. Our delegation and responsibility are in the Euscadin, and it is reflected in this legislature. That's why I want to take a look at our path. We went through the agreements of political euscal sects, and now I want to give a special importance to the crew of auto-gravity which has been introduced in this legislature. Look, to accept profound agreements, we're moving forward in this country. We have accepted historical rights, we defend the Economic concert, that the state of Guernica has been positive for the organization of our country, even for the welfare of the euscal society, that the state of Guernica remains intact, and that we need a new status to update and strengthen our self-organization, as well as to adapt it to our new Europe. And so, little by little, we all go that way. These agreements may be a solid basis for a variety of agreements, and I have heard from you, as I said before, that you have a foot and a half out of the field. You said it in a press conference before the staff meeting, Mr. Ray. That's loyalty to the band! I don't know where that one foot and half is going, but I'm convinced that this team is possible to make an agreement and that it's impossible beyond that, Mr. Eriz. You defend the interview. And the interview to be away and the interview to be here? The pretended debates we've done many times? I have told you and I will tell you again, I respect the positions and decisions of the Catalan Parliament. I proposed to Mas to work together (Mr. Arraiz, if you want to hear from me about my relationship with President Mas, old)... I proposed that Mas work together for a new model of state. Catalonia decided its way; Euskadi has chosen its way by virtue of its own history, its own reality and its own circumstances. And each one, Mr. Mas and I, believe in our way and respect the other's. And so has President Mas himself. We propose an agreement between the Basque political parties and a pact with the State. You've been in a dead end for many years. Instead of the plot, instead of the plot that you want to offer to all the political formations, and particularly to the Basque Nationalist Party and the Lehendakari, of new fronts – which you yourself have also resorted to the recognition of the need for plural political agreements in how many interviews you yourself have done well – it is time to find a shared path and without exclusions, Mr Arraiz. No one is missing and no one is left in the self-government paper. We can find the way forward in self-government and continue to build Euskadi progressively in a stronger and more open Europe. We have the capacity to reach a new pact here (a new pact here), of coexistence, from mutual recognition and effective bilaterality with the State, from the agreement-agreement. We are part of a people who, starting from the outlying territories, share a majority sense of nationhood. Our historic rights, recognized and protected, can give them as much as we can reach our capacity to achieve institutional agreements. First here, Mr Arraiz, take political decisions that are endorsed by the citizenry and respected. They are our political aspirations, but as institutional representatives, Mr Arraiz, we also have a duty to guide them with intelligence and respect for plurality and coexistence. And continue to carry out our government and public service work also on a day-to-day basis. That's my will as lehendakari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interlation by Javier Ruiz de Abrilo Cerio, a member of the Posteula team, a member of the President of the United States, of the voluntary introduction of the millions of civil servants who are under the fire of the Eusquillion." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. To make a little memory, Mr Lehendakari, in 2011 the Government of Spain has to take drastic measures to remedy the disastrous economic and financial situation in which the State, the public administration, the autonomous administrations, the local administrations, the vast majority of the country's institutional framework were located. There was that risk, that fear of intervention from Europe, the famous fear of black men coming and doing things. And among these drastic measures that had to be taken, those collected in Royal Decree-Law 20/2011, many of them affected civil servants, employees of the country's public sector. They were held back for overtime (it was not a salary reduction as it had been done before, indefinite; it was a temporary retention); they stopped making contributions from public administrations to the voluntary social security agencies of many officials; they were forced to work more days because productivity had to be increased... They were courageous, courageous and unpleasant measures, at a very delicate time, which the People's Party had cost many votes of public employees, we all know that. And it had to be done. It had to be done, and it had to be looked at in the face of officials, day by day. At the time, I had the task of working in the public sector, I was an outlaw in the very excellent Foral Chamber of Álava, I had the honour of leading a group of officials, and they moved him. Those measures were very bad, because they were very harsh and very unpleasant. And they always paid the same, and they always paid the officials. But they stoically put up with it. There was not at all a drop in productivity, that discomfort and that damage caused to them by the measures. They kept working quietly, as always. Some did; some came every Tuesday to the Plaza de la Provincia, including public offices of the Basque Nationalist Party, which started screaming behind the banner but then here, with the same measures, did not come to protest. It was a frankly curious thing. But, well, the truth is that you obeyed the law, complied with it, and somehow benefited from those measures, with the important savings that in successive budgets you had, by not having to make those contributions to the social welfare entities of the officials in 2013, in 2014, in 2015... Nor did they return the extra pay when it was authorized by law. Then he also made a big savings for them. In 2013, at the time of the adoption of the State General Budgets Act, the Basque Nationalist Party assumed that it had amended the State General Budgets Act and that it had finally been allowed to resume its contributions. But the Basque Government did not. Other administrations do. The other day Mr Erkoreka told me that there were many Administrations that did not. Some yes, others don't... It gives me the same thing who does and who doesn't; I can tell you that within the Basque Country the three outlaws did. And they were able to do it because they had done their homework. They met the requirements laid down by law, and therefore resumed such contributions. We were very concerned that last week, when the advisers appeared in the various committees to explain the content of the budgets and were questioned for it, they told us that there was no forecast to resume those contributions during the 2016 financial year, and that is why I want to ask you today, I want to ask you, and I am sure you will answer me satisfactorily, for when? When is the provision to resume these rights, to restore all those rights to the tens of thousands of employees of the public sector in the Basque Country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, it is a fact that at one point in time the basic rules of the State affecting the public service respond more to the purpose of ensuring budgetary stability and containing public expenditure than to the objective – which should theoretically be yours – of establishing the common normative denominator that ensures a certain homogeneity in the conditions for the management of the human resources of the public administrations. There is a fact which I believe makes very clear that this is what I am saying: a very high percentage of the rules of these characteristics, the basic rules of the State affecting the public service, invokes as a competition title not the one set out in article 149, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, which recognizes the competence of the State to establish the bases of the legal regime of the public administrations and the statutory regime of its officials, but the one set out in paragraph 13 of that same precept, which speaks of the bases and the coordination of the planning in general of economic activity. Therefore, the most important rules of the civil service, which mark the context in which human resources management has been carried out by administrations in recent times (measures such as wage freezes, such as the abolition of extra payments, prohibitions of contribution to EPSV, replacement rates...), all of them have no basis linked to human resources management, to improvement in human resources management, but simply a strictly financial basis. It is the commitments, the regime of economic governance of public administrations established in the Spanish State, which determines these rules. It is also a fact that the model of economic governance, this model of economic governance established in the Spanish State for public administrations, which is basically reflected in article 135 of the Constitution, after the reform of 2011, and in the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, radically subordinates... the personnel policies of public administrations, totally subordinates them to the objectives of budgetary stability. All that any public administration can do in the area of its personnel management competence, everything is subordinated, like any other policy, to the fulfilment of those objectives of budgetary stability, inexorable, linked to the deficit limit, with the limits to debt, the containment of expenditure and the rule of expenditure, which is the one that operates from a given moment. Finally, it is a fact, I also believe, that the party to which you belong has been a fundamental player in the configuration of both schemes, both in the definition of the basic rules of the State that are inspired by the objectives of economic stability and also in the setting, in the establishment of that model of economic governance that limits all the staff policies of the public administrations, radically subjecting them to the fulfilment of certain objectives of budgetary stability. At the state level, the great value of these political approaches has been the Minister Montoro himself, Minister of Finance and Public Administration, of whom he has been said to be much more of Finance than of Public Administration, because all the regulations he has established in the field of Public Administration were radically subordinated to the criteria and objectives set in the field of Finance. And here in Euskadi the great valiant has been the People's Parliamentary Group, to which you belong, because for many years now your speech, always in budgetary debate, speaks of the containment of expenditure and of a fundamental rule, of not subordinating current expenditure to debt commitments. "Never be in debt, never be in debt to finance current expenses", this is a message, a usual, traditional demand, of your parliamentary group in the budgetary debates here in this House. You say that in 2012, as a matter of law, it was agreed by the Basque Government to abolish contributions to voluntary social security institutions for public employees. It's true, but it's not the whole truth. It is true that the first step taken by the Rajoy Government as soon as it took over the responsibility to govern, the first step, was that royal decree-law to which you referred, on 20/2011, of 30 December, which, among other drastic measures, categorically prohibited any contribution to voluntary social security entities by public administrations. A measure, by the way, which harmed other public administrations; not the central government, which does not make such contributions. This is the way in which the central Government has been managing the basic measures in the field of public service: in the light of its own interests and its own reality, whoever falls down and harms anyone who harms. I told him that it was true, but I told him that it was not the whole truth, because it is no less true that, prior to that date, the Basque Government had already made contributions to voluntary social security institutions subject to restrictions. In 2010 and 2011, before that prohibition was established, contributions to voluntary social security entities had already been adjusted. And not because there was a state ban, but because there were objectives of budgetary stability, inexorably established through that mechanism of economic governance imposed on public administrations, which imposed it. Well, since then it is true that the Basque Government has not made any further contributions. He didn't do it in 2012, he didn't do it in the 13th, he didn't do it in the 14th, and he didn't do it in the 15th. But it has not done so because this ban has remained in force in the successive general budget laws of the State. If you look at yourself, if you review the general budget laws of the State in recent years, you will be able to see that there is a ban on making such contributions. It is true that from 2014 this ban is being modulated as a result of an amendment tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies. An amendment which is accepted only in part, because the condition imposed by the central Government to be able to accept that amendment is that contributions may be made provided that such contributions do not lead to an increase in the wage mass. And in the case of the Basque Government these contributions always meant an increase in the wage mass, because there was no budgetary allocation for that purpose in Chapter I. Therefore, making contributions to EPSVs during the years 2014, 2015, 2013, would have meant an increase in the salary mass in the case of the Basque Government, because the contributions to EPSVs, as you know, are deferred wages, conceptually they are salaries budgeted in Chapter I. This would have automatically entailed a remedy by the State's Advocate, who has followed closely all the measures taken by the public administrations in this area, and has lodged many appeals against the measures taken by the different administrations against these forecasts, even here in Basquedi. Now is not the time to talk about the resources you have put in, but there are many. Of course, you assume that for 2016 there is a regulatory change. I don't know why he gives it! The State General Budgets Act for 2016, in its third paragraph of Article 19, literally reproduces the prohibitive rule that has been in force since 2014. In other words, public administrations are still unable to contribute to voluntary social security schemes for public employees if this means an increase in the wage bill, which is clearly the case with the Basque Government. You're saying to me, "When are you going to make that contribution?". Man, in 2016, as long as that prohibitive rule that the General Courts have just approved with the basic support of the People's Parliamentary Group remains in force... This rule is in force, is in force as of 1 January, and strictly prohibits contributions that involve an increase in the wage mass. He says, "There are administrations that have done it." Yes, but it is administrations that can benefit from this exception, because either they had those amounts listed in Chapter I, and therefore making contributions did not imply an increase in the salary mass, or you will find out what other budget-type trichinets could do to ensure that those contributions could be made effective without a timely appeal from the State counsel. But today, today, for today, what you are asking me to do is to objectively fail to comply with a basic rule incorporated in the Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2016, which has just been approved by the General Courts. If this were to be said to me EH Bildu I could understand it, although we know that EH Bildu then where the government meets the basic rules (this is raised where they are opposed). But understand my surprise when I see that it is precisely you who poses it to me. Where economic and financial conditions permit, such contributions shall be made, provided that this ban which is still being maintained by the central government and which will also be in force for 2016 is lifted, as already regulated in the Budget Act which is approved and published and will enter into force when the budget year begins in 2016, on 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Ruiz de Arbulo jauna...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u53	Thank you, President. Mr. Lehendakari, you have disappointed me. I thought that the officials were a concern for you and that I was going to respond directly, because it is something that affects all the departments and I understand that it is a decision that, as responsible for the entire Government, you and for which you were responsible, and that therefore I was going to respond. But it wasn't like that. You've disappointed me, I'm sorry. Mr Erkoreka has not disappointed me. I know he's a very brilliant parliamentarian, and he came here and blamed us on the People's Party. He has blamed the Government of Spain, and he says that we are asking him to violate the law. You see, the Foral Diputation of Alava, that of Gipuzkoa, the City of Vitoria, that of San Sebastian, that of Bilbao, have not violated the law, and they have resumed the contributions. I think the cause is rather another, because if I ask you why you have not paid the extra payment, as requested very recently by this House, why is not the forecast in the budgets, what will you tell me? "Doesn't the law allow me," or "Do I have no interest in these officials, do I not want to pay them, do I have other spending priorities"? There no one prevents them, no law prevents them from paying in this exercise, or the forecast for the next exercise. 75% of what is missing in the 2016 budgets, they have it, they write it down and they pay it, and the sooner the better (in January, in February), the better we will not wait until the end of the year, or at the electoral season. You could do so, no law forbids it, but you're telling me that contributions to voluntary social security entities you wanted to do, but that the law does not allow it. None of the institutions to which I referred, as far as I know, have received any complaint from the state's attorney. They have done their homework, they have adjusted their spending, they have disposed of that money; from the same sources, which is that the budget of these administrations comes out of the same pockets, of all Basque citizens. I do not know, as you said to me the other day, honestly, nor am I very concerned, what is going to happen in the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands with these issues. I don't care. I'm worried about mine. The Basques have always been pointers in many things. What I'm asking you to do is keep being pointy. And if the law authorizes it (because it does not strictly prohibit it, what it says is in which cases it can be done), do your homework, record that money, and restore the rights of public workers. I believe that you run the most important company in the Basque Country, in at least a number of workers. I believe that in every company the human resources department has a very strong weight, because it is essential to be happy with the workers. And you don't have the workers happy. Because you can come here and tell us that it's Rajoy's fault, but they know perfectly well that it's not so, especially when they see how other public sector workers in Euskadi, dependent on other administrations... They see how these administrations have done their homework, they are resuming their benefits, in the same way that they have paid, if not fully, virtually the full extra pay withheld in 2012. I really thought that I was going to be happy and that I was going to tell us that this was going to be resolved, but, as I see it is not so, I will be forced to present a motion to see the opinion of the rest of the groups in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully understand your position, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo. I fully understand this, and the meaning of this initiative and of others that are being presented in this House in recent weeks. I understand, because after four years of inexorably applying to the public service the budgetary orthodoxy that you imposed on 135 of the Constitution and on the Organic Law of Budget Stability, after four years of receiving criticisms for this, because you are now the main responsible, now, two months from the elections, in a magnanimous gesture of Minister Montoro, you have opened your hand, with the severe counterclaim of the European Commission, telling them that you are breaking, breaking the orthodoxy that you yourself have advocated. But we already see that the proximity of the elections seems to make it possible to excuse that kind of orthodoxy that they have been defending so far (and that they will continue to do so in the future, I have absolutely no doubt), and I understand that, once they have freed themselves from that pressure, they want to prove first and foremost to the whole world that they have lifted the prohibitions. But here I think you've made a wrong calculation. He told me about the debate that took place in this House a few weeks ago in relation to overtime, but the legal treatment of overtime and contributions is completely different. It is that the Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2016 continues to establish this prohibition! You say, "You assumed." Look, I'm going to explain to you how this has operated from the salary mass, from the inexorable prohibition imposed by the State General Budgets Act since 2014, in relation to the contributions that imply an increase in the salary mass. In 2012 the budget was liquidated without any such contribution, because they were prohibited by law (the first rule adopted by the People's Party was nothing more to govern, the first). The Basque budget for the year 2012 is therefore settled without any contribution to EPSVs, to the social security institutions of Euskadi. The liquidated budget is extended in 2013; therefore, there is no contribution. If in 2014 we incorporated in chapter I some forecast to make those contributions, that inexorably implies an increase in the wage mass. The budgetary situation of the parliaments, the municipalities, does not have to be the same, much less. Each has its own circumstance. Some continued to maintain this budget allocation in chapter I, so, since the allocation existed, there was no increase in the wage mass (this was the majority). Others had sufficient resources in chapter I to finance actual assets that were not actually occupied, and they used those resources to finance those contributions. But that was not the case with the government. The Basque Government has the adjusted staffing levels, and there are no surpluses in Chapter I to enable it to finance these contributions. Therefore, financing these contributions inevitably implies an increase in the wage mass, which is the only thing that since 2014 strictly prohibit the laws of general budgets of the State approved, everyone knows, with the absolute majority of the People's Party in Congress and in the Senate. These are the conditions, these are the terms on which the Basque Government moves; budgetary terms that prevent it from availing itself of the authorization clause to make contributions from the general budget laws of the State in recent years. Other administrations can do that. The Basque Government cannot do so without skipping that basic rule. You tell me, "What if there was no basic rule?". Well, if there was no basic rule, you'd see what the situation is. But do not equate the contributions to EPSV with the legislative treatment given to the 2012 extra pay, because it is completely different. I already know that... It's completely different, yes. In the case of the 2012 extra pay, the ban has been clearly lifted. It is only subject to the fulfilment of the objectives of budgetary stability, which is not a small one, which is not a small one. Budgetary stability targets imposed by the central government. But in the case of contributions to EPSV the ban remains evident. Review: Article 19 third paragraph of the State General Budgets Act for 2016. Do not force me to fail to comply with a basic rule of the state that is approved by you, by the People's Party! The rules are there; the prohibition is restrictive, forceful. Do not force me to submit myself to the resources of the State Advocate, who continues to monitor the regulations and continues to monitor the actions of the public administrations, to ensure that there is not the slightest deviation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members of the staff have been made to the president about the influence of the Housing Act on the budget." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u57	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Councilman, a few months ago, on 18 June, the Housing Act was passed in this Parliament. Thanks to it, the subjective right to enjoy a decent home becomes a reality. The Basque Government is required to allocate 80 % of public housing money to rented public housing – this for the first five years, and then we would now move to 100 % – and it is intended that the most disadvantaged, i.e. those people, those Basque citizens at risk of social exclusion, will not stay on the street because they cannot pay their mortgage. We are therefore faced with an advanced and progressive law, which was harshly criticized by the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party. Before their final approval, members of the Basque Government tried to transmit fear to society. They said this law would have a worldwide effect. They said that this law would have an unbearable budgetary effect on public coffers. And they said that their approval would force the Basque Government to apply social cuts. In addition, the Basque Government, and in particular Mr Erkoreka, manipulated everything the actual content of the law could. Obviously, it is legitimate to criticize the law and oppose it, but the worst thing in this case is not to criticize the law, to oppose it, or even the social insensitivity that this Government showed in the processing, debate and approval of the Housing Act. The worst are lies, falsehoods, and trying to transmit fear to the citizenry. That's the worst. And that's what the Basque government did. That is why I ask you, Mr Councillor, whether the Basque Government maintains that the application of the Housing Act will cause an unbearable budgetary effect, which will require the application of social cuts, as Mr Erkoreka told us all at the time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u59	Mr. President, this is Congressman's chief desk, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. I'm not going to get in your mess like the president, Mr. Maniro. As you know, when we met with the housing bill, a estimate of the budget that the government's budget had just introduced into the economic form of government was made. And it's true that the average average of almost 60 million years in the period was reduced then. The paternal report examined the investment which had to be promoted to the subjective right of the housing. To this end, the budget supplies were decided to be necessary for the new rental housing and to continue to increase the income of the vacant housing. So, Mr Maneiro, we highlighted the financial-economic weakness that affects the formation of the public offer for rent, and that at present both the promotion and the acquisition of rented houses cannot be promoted but directly, through a public budget that has certain limits.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u60	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u61	Yes, let's see, counselor. Mr Erkoreka said that the adoption of this law would have a worldwide effect. Is this so-called global effect occurring, or is this so-called global effect not occurring? Was it Mr. Erkoreka's manipulation, or was it just another lie? Mr Erkoreka spoke and said that this law would have an unbearable budgetary effect on the public coffers. Is it already having an unbearable effect on the public arks, or was it another usual manipulation by the Basque Government's spokesman and the Basque Government itself? Will it be necessary, as Mr Erkoreka said, to apply social cuts in order to enforce this law, or was it also a falsehood of Mr Erkoreka and the Basque Government itself? Do you keep all this stuff you said, or was it all a huge lie? Certainly, given the draft budgets for the 2016 financial year, we see none of this. We do not see the effect called global, nor do we see that the application of this law has an unbearable budgetary effect, which is what was said. The increase in housing for the next draft budget is EUR 2 million. You spoke of an additional increase, compared to what we already had, of almost EUR 80 million per year, and it has been shown to be false. And, even if it were EUR 80 million, we consider that the same thing as education costs money, or the same thing as health costs money, it is logical and reasonable that the application of a progressive housing law can also have an economic cost for public coffers. But this is, in any case, a progressive policy that we defend. In any case, do you maintain all this that you said (worldly so-called effect, unbearable budgetary effect, in short, need to apply cuts...)? Do they keep it, or was it all a lie?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not enter into your statements, and I will answer the question you have asked. I explained at your appearance, on the budget presented for the financial year 2016, that the investment to meet the new obligations arising from the entry into force of the Housing Act, which was the budget for rental policies, amounted to more than 62 million euros. And to this figure must be added the 2 million to which you have referred, plus the 82,2 million euros destined to pay the rental costs through the supplementary housing benefit. Therefore, within the existing budgetary possibilities, 84% of the budget presented for 2016, only in the housing area, excluding items intended to promote urban rehabilitation, as stated by law, will be aimed at expanding the public park for rent, in order to satisfy the subjective housing right. So, by examining the possibilities of the budgets, the budget has been assigned to re-election of 84% cities, independently of the public rent park, which has been directed to increase the budget, no doubt, to fulfill the subjective right of the housing. We'll fill out the new Housing Act. We'll fill it with our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. Toña. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the Basque Company, Carmelo Barrio Barroja, was made to the President, the President, and Chief Congresswoman of Araban." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u65	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. A week ago exactly, last November 6th, last Friday, the lehendakari Urkullu met with Mr González, the deputy general of Álava, and, according to the media, it seems that the issues affecting logistics, the logistical development of Álava, had the essential protagonist. According to the deputy general himself, who appears to have appeared before the media after the meeting, the lehendakari endorsed the approaches that Mr González was taking to him. And in that sense I think it is good that the lehendakari himself tells us what he is going to do, what are the elements he describes as the most important of that meeting in relation precisely to that logistical development, with Foronda, with the logistical connections of Álava, after that meeting and that making his own the approaches of the deputy general. We will indeed continue to maintain this issue. We have raised a question for Mrs Oregi to go deeper into the issues that have to do with this logistical development and with Foronda. But it is true that the media, after Mr Gonzalez's meeting and speech, spoke in headlines of two issues: "Urkullu agrees with Gonzalez to bet on Álava as a logistical territory", and "Urkullu supports Gonzalez to get passengers for Foronda". So explain to us, Mr Lehendakari, the conclusions of that meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u66	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr Barrio, I have indeed made my own the approaches of the deputy general Ramiro González, in relation to Araba's logistical development. I understand from your question that the People's Party now intends to attach importance to Foronda airport and, in any case, to logistics in general. Look, the Basque Government and the Arab Foreign Ministry, both led by the Basque Nationalist Party, share strategy and bet to maintain the capacity of the Foronda airport. We defend both institutions to recover the border inspection post and ensure its activity 24 hours a day, following the closure decreed by the People's Party Government. This is the position being defended by the Basque Government in the Airport Coordination Committee. And, on the other hand, as far as the railway corridor is concerned, we share three objectives: to complete the arrival of the high-speed train, to boost the terminal of Jundiz as a freight hub on the railway highway of southern Europe, and to expand Arasur's capacity as a dry port. The Basque Government, therefore, Mr Barrio, is committed to the modernization of Araba and supports its industrial and export capacity. And I can also tell you that we are participating with this aim in the European Union working group on the Atlantic rail corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u69	Thank you, President. Thank you, Lehendakari, for the outline on the issues that you have addressed and that you intend to address. Yes, I would like a little more detail, because indeed, if Urkullu is going to support the fact that Foronda has more passengers, I would like to know how. There is a possible solution, that now, with the problem that Loiu airport has with the mayors and the municipalities of the Txorieri, I think it can be a good option in that sense to bring flights. It seems that there are many difficulties because the municipalities of the area (the City of Derio, the City of Loiu) are opposing these issues, and this affects passenger flights, which can come perfectly to Foronda. I think it's a good opportunity. At the moment the ball is on the roof of the Basque Government, it is in its possibilities to bring passengers to the Foronda airport. We are seeing how the airport of Foronda..., this very week has shown itself to be already surpassing that of Zaragoza, in close competition with that of Foronda in relation to the cargo. I mean, that's going well. It's going well in the last few months, it's going well this year. I mean, now there's that subject left. And that pending subject, Mr Lehendakari, is on the roof of the Basque Government itself, on its roof, in that capacity to understand that the airport of Loiu, such as Fuenterabía and that of Foronda, can have a concert; to be, so to speak, a single airport, with three terminals. In this sense, now that there are difficulties in Loiu, now that there are major difficulties in Loiu, not only of extending timetables, but also of extending its facilities, which affect the development of neighbouring municipalities, can of course have that reflection here. We'd like to see it that way. We understand there's been bad news. The fact that Sprilur took off the expansion of the VIAP industrial site at Foronda airport was bad news, it was a wrong decision, but in any case now the ball is on its roof to bring those passengers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, how many things have you spoken to me in a totum revolutionum! What does the industrial polygon have to do with passengers at Foronda Airport? Look, in your case, Mr Barrio, you have asked me the question as to the commitments of Alaves logistic connections after the meetings held between the lehendakari and the deputy general of Araba, and in any case, since you refer to Foronda, well, I, as representatives of the People's Party, and therefore the party that governs in Spain, I continue to vindict you, first, the border inspection post and the H24 as the cargo airport for the airport of Foronda. Look, for four years, the right conditions have been given for having defended Alava's interests from all the institutions, and particularly those governed by the People's Party, Mr Barrio. I remind you that the Government of Spain is the owner of the Foronda airport. It is the government of Spain that owns the Foronda airport, as well as the railway network. And yet in Foronda steps have been taken backwards, and in railway logistics none forward, Mr Barrio. And this has been the fruit of the People's Party government. We have seen how in parallel the investments and capacities of Burgos or Zaragoza have been boosted. And don't come to me now to compare what has been the improvement of Foronda airport in relation to Zaragoza, for the circumstances that you know are in the greatest capacity of a company located at the terminal of Foronda airport. Man, don't you come to me and claim the airport, an airport and three terminals, when you've heard this as an approach from the Basque Government led by the Basque Nationalist Party, and you've heard it from the Environmental and Territorial Policy Advisor. If anyone is defending the complementarity of airports, and therefore also the promotion of Foronda airport, it is the Basque Nationalist Party, both in terms of cargo airport and also airport for transoceanic flights or airport for commercial flights as well. I reaffirm the Government's commitment to logistics platforms and the recovery of Foronda airport. In fact, we are also investing, both from URA and in communications infrastructure, to improve Foronda's competitiveness. Competitiveness is not only based on the ability to attract flights, but competitiveness is also based on improved infrastructure. And I can assure you that the Basque Government and the foreign parliament are working hand in hand in terms of logistics and transport, because our only commitment is to defend the interests of Álava and Euskadi above any other, which the People's Party has not done when it has had the responsibility of government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, the lawmen of the Belsen Rock Road, the CEO of economics and contestations, to guarantee the activity of Condesa, the employments, and the terms of work, about what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u73	Thank you. Welcome to the staff of Condesa. As you know, the representatives of the board of Condesa were at the Enplegu Committee on June 8th. In the last few years of the show, and especially in the two workshops situated in Araban, hubardesa Fabrill and Condesa Inox, who, after describing with all the exactness of their situation in living, had demanded protection and assistance from the parliamentary, the practice of the company, the employment, and the conditions of labour. The 15th Condesa team signed a deal with Arccelor and the banks that were senior creditors. As far as we know, it's a creditor with so many millions of euros. It's been three months since the workers in the cave of Condesa have no information about the situation, they're still in uncertainty, they're in suspense, they're in suspense, and they have less work every day. That's why we want to know what you're doing in this business, and I want you to know exactly what you're doing, how you can guarantee business, work, and work conditions. I'll see if I can get something straight tonight.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. As you were saying, the Condesa team called the creditors' contest in July 2014, so the party is under a judicial protection. And there is a compact between the creditors and the principal financial institutions, although it has not yet been effected. It's true, but if it wasn't that, it'd be a concursion declaration here and the settlement. What was the joke? Just to encourage it, not to go to the settlement. However, as you mentioned, there is a banker pool who has a financial debt, and also an ArcelorMittal. And of course we're involved. At the end of November 2014, an agreement of intent was signed with the property, as you said, between ArcelorMittal and the banking pool. But it is also true that the conclusion of this agreement is becoming very difficult and very complicated, because of the large number of suppliers and creditors, and because it is also taking place in more than one country. I mean, we have here the plants of Vitoria, there are plants in Navarre, there are plants in the rest of the state, there are plants in France, and it is very difficult to reach an agreement. However, in July 2015, a definitive agreement was reached that financial institutions had to sign. It has been difficult to align these financial institutions, and this operation needs to be formalised. To date, this agreement, which affected the senior debt – that of the banks – carries important write-offs, credit capitalization, credit refinancing, liquidity injections. A process, I insist, complicated. This process seems to be today...; it's unofficial news at this time, but the government's knowledge is that the banks have already signed. He is therefore currently in the Defence of Competition, which has to sign that there is no problem, and also has to give judicial approval for the subordinated debt, including that of the Government. Therefore, there are still two steps, but the news we have is that, despite the fact that the group is subject to judicial guardianship and we have information only as creditors, and the process seems long, we understand that at the end of this year this process can be completed. We also understand the complex situation in which the workers are living, without knowing definitely any concrete data, but the news that I can bring forward today, I insist, without any official source, is that we are pending only the process in Competition and the one of approval, and that we consider that it can go fast enough so that the whole process can be completed and resolved before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u77	As I have said before, when they were in the legislature, they somehow expressed some lack of information and accused him. And now I have spoken of it before, and they remain equally indifferent, and I think that it is not fair to be so long, knowing that they are so from the margin of 2014. You've explained some things today, you think it can be solved in a short time, but it's hard to understand why there isn't any more respect for workers and why the chief physician and, well, the department isn't picking up all the information in order to get any transparency on the workers' situation. For instance, we'd like to know what kind of a credit yummy has and what he intends to do about that credit. And whether he intends to do this or what he intends to do in this negotiation, with the condition of employment and labour. I hope he intends to join the workers' committee, as I have said, in order to convey information in a clear manner, and to be shared by them. I think the workers would appreciate it; here, as I said before, there are some who are outside, but they're all worried. It's been a long time worried about him. When the staff delegates were in the legislature, they asked for a statement of all the teams we're here, and it wasn't even possible that the other teams, the ones that protected the fun, because EAJ, didn't see it, weren't ready for that. And then, too, this caused the anger of the workers somehow. That's why we're asking him to give us all the information with transparency. And we also demand that we participate in the active mode in the solution. It's been a few months, the job charge is coming down, it's getting smaller, there's serious risks. We all know, as we have said, that we were here yesterday to talk about the situation in several parts of the Araba, a pity. What's going on in Aternov is a witness of it, and another one's a disgrace. Let's not let the same thing happen to the Condesa, let's take the initiation, let's give the workers all the information with some transparency, and see if they can get along with it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, our representatives have met several times with the committee from our section, but we have always told them that we will transfer them to them as much as we have new information. But we must also understand that this trial is under a judicial protection, and that we are creditors, which we ought not to give. Nevertheless, we give it as much as it is, but we also have a little bit of information, at the present moment judicially under the ArcelMitals and banks, which I would like to make clear. The creditors, I said, "somos acredores dedeudinada, afactados por el proceso de homologacion judicial." We have not been among the original signatures, because we are indebted to one another, so we are going towards homologization at the last moment. Of course we all are concerned, but I'm sure we won't be able to find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, the lawmen of the Casanova Alonso Presidency team to the head of economics and contestations, about obstructing Candy's new industrial projects." Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u81	Hello, good morning, everyone. Candy Hoover's company predicted a year ago that the production of washing machines would be transferred to China and would close the factory in Bergara. Fifteen2 of the poor in the air, and though there have been so many attempts to set up a new project, they are all on their way. The last project was introduced by the Urbanx Company of France, and the purpose was to make the furniture of the city with the recycled Tetrapack material in Bergara (the chair, table, and the like). This way, they've had a few meetings in the past few weeks, with workers and institutions, and everything was ready to close up. It was about 80% of the Urbanext capital and almost 60 employees were to enter the new company at 20 percent. Projects, however, required fundamental, Community, and Factions, and abstentions. Besides, the Lampois needed help too. Although the thing admitted a few weeks ago to protect the project, the new project has been locked up after the union. The new industrial project can be ruined, leaving 60 workers' future in the air. That's why we ask Mrs. Tapia the next question. Are you sure you're willing to offer an alternative to Candy's employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u83	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, for the first time, I shall remember: From the very first moment we remarked that the plan which presented itself for Candy to reform was quite inappropriate, as it was with serious problems. To begin with, he abandoned other projects, which might show their efficiency. Second, the initial company, Candy, doesn't take any responsibility in the process of re-engaging workers, which is absolutely odd and irregular. Third, you're going to try my job on a system built to buy Embobs. There's no responsibility to other companies, and time was too limited. Yet we saw doubts and difficulties, but we never were obstacles, just the opposite. We've been looking for them and veting all the projects they've been presented to. In this case, only two of them were presented with a minimum of competency. I say a Minimous, because they have great dangers, and great dangers, which are above the other side of the ibians, and not just the finances. We've been critical as it was being introduced to this plan. But yet I said that we've been working with our co-workers to find a way out, wise and responsible, because we don't want to give a false hope at all. And I've said that more than once. With regard to the specific question about Urbanext, Lampar's refusal to participate here has been communicated from the beginning. Lampar, by the way, managed not only by venture capital from the Basque Government, but by a prestigious company (ASLE) that has worked for a long time on these types of projects. From that point on, the evaluation of the Gauzatu programme was positive, it is true, with only decisions concerning mutual guarantee companies and a third financial institution left pending, in order to make the project financially viable. And mutual guarantee companies have shown their refusal; however, if there is alternative funding, the Gauzatu programme continues to have the positive evaluation (we have made a special effort to do so). What I would also like to point out is that we certainly do not find, from any point of view, adequate – and you have not made it quite clear – that the workers, with 1.2 million euros, have 20% of the capital, and someone who comes from France with 180,000 euros is doing with 80% of the capital. At least you'll recognize that it's not a very good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u85	Well, because Candy's reindustrialisation process may be critical, but what is clear is that if that possibility had not been put into effect, the situation of Candy, on the line of his government's actions, would be much clearer today: it would be closed, the workers at home, and end point. There would be no expectation, either large, small or medium, because, thanks to the passiveness of his Government, other institutions had to intervene. And, as I was saying, they will have done well, wrong or regular, but they have maintained the expectation that there may be a solution here. Other questions, about the percentage that the company or workers have to have, that can be questionable, we may like it more or less, but there are the workers who are making the decisions, and the workers had accepted it and, moreover, that comes within what is legally required to be supported by the Lampar fund. Therefore, it would not be up to your Government or me, in theory, to tell the workers whether that is fair or unfair, when they have accepted it and fulfil their legal obligations to be able to receive that help. You have been meeting with the workers, and you have not put on the table at any time the problems of the question of financial viability. They've had several meetings with them, they've fueled expectations that this project was moving forward, and you know how the workers found out that this wasn't going forward? Through the newspaper, through leaks from your department; just as I learned, by the way, about the answer that I was going to give today: through the newspaper, from the same newspaper. That's not serious. Because it is true that there may be questions about the feasibility of the project. It is not up to me either to say whether it is viable or not, I do not have the feasibility study, I have not analysed it. There may be doubts about that. But of course there is no doubt that the forms have been managed in a terrible way; that these avenues on viability have not been raised at the right time or in the right way. All companies have risks. Well, not all of them: one can set up radial highways, and when it breaks they rescue him, or they can make banks, lose all the money they want, and they'll already rescue him. It is the capitalism of the amiguetes, in which losses are always socialized. But in the SME world, in fact, this company may have risks, but I think it is also worth taking those risks. No one has the guarantee. To this day, workers continue to support this process. Workers see this possibility, and if it does not go ahead, they expect and demand that the Basque Government fulfil its responsibility and continue to get involved as in recent months. At the beginning of this process he did so. Eta amaituko dut, hain zuzen ere, hitza ematen langileei: "We have gathered in assembly, we continue to support the Urbanext project. No one has told us that the project is not viable. The Basque Government has repeatedly informed us of its support for the project. We don't understand what happened. We have been victims of unfair relocation, and we are in a really tough situation. The unemployment benefit has been exhausted. We're still on time. We ask the Basque Government to keep its word and among all of us we create an alternative to..."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u87	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, you don't seem to hear me. I'll talk about it again. It is true that we are very critical with the reforming process, because in other cases, if we did it properly, as other cases have been saved, and as solutions have been sought, it might have been much easier to do. But we never stopped thinking about it. There have been a lot of meetings, it's true, and he's been able to explain himself more than once from Lamprico. But Lampar isn't alone, I repeat, there are some who explain the specs, and they're funded. let us make a part of it, let us make it clear. I have mentioned also that the actuated program, the evaluation, is positive, and remains positive when it is positive. But he needs funding, and there's no official communication yet, because we haven't made a decision yet. But he's still positive. So if you're looking for funding, we're looking for the program, because it's a positive evaluation. We didn't go that way. And there are those who study the two societies, and there's the financier of vicissitude. And they say no, but that doesn't mean other ways are not found. So, the implication and the terms are there. Let's look for it, yes, why not, let's go on looking, but in a proper way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interrament, the parliamentary members of the Xabier Isasi Balanzaria, made of education, politics, and Cultural Division, in order to be able to maintain a normal security in the local institutions of Araba, Bizic, and Gipuzia." Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u89	Mrs. President of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of this year, at the thirteenth of February, we asked the President in our interpelation, what purpose he had in general, and the President, in order to defend the normal use of the sustaination in the country and local administrations, in order to make the rises, cracks, and the rest normal. The chairman of Administration and Justice, though directed to the President, answered us by Signor Josu Erkoere. We still thought that it was a top-end theme for you and we thought the president would be responsible for it himself. It wasn't like that. The Court of Administration and Justice said that the matter proposed was essentially legal and judicial. That the representative of the kingdom was only a legal or judicial charge against several municipal councils. The policy to promote the use of the Euscoy of November 24, 1982, in the government of the UA, Biscay, and Gipuzian. As it concerns the authorities of the people, it is by this law that every citizen has a right to have an official language in which he pleases the administration of the people. Thus it is that the duty of the people is exempted from being assured that this right is performed without limitation or hindrance. It is well known that against a number of townships (the majority of the Gipulias) the representative of the Spanish Government has placed appeals in order to hinder the normalisation of the use of the Euscha. Nevertheless, by the trial of Iru, we have learned that the Supreme Court of Autonomy Erdigo has given a verdict on the legality of the election sent by the council. That is to say, the verdict cannot be postponed. This year, in the whole meeting of March 6th, the Euge des Jeltarian Party and the motion agreed on by the EH Collectors. The reason says: "One. The Parliament confirms that the documents written in eucalys have a full value of law in all countries where the language is official, and for any public administration, including the peripheral Administration of the State. "Two. Consequently, the representative of the Spanish Government, in the course of his conduct in the trial of the eucalyptics, protects the legislature, in order that the municipal councils who wish it might be executed and sent to the administrations, and, in spite of all, the activities which MARY has set forth in this matter. "Three. The parliament demands that the representative of the Spanish Government be respected and respected the letter from the Regions, the European languages of the United Nations. Motius, approved of by the legislature, had not the strength of the representative of the Spanish Government, who continued to attack the municipal councils and against the Basques. Fortunately, this attack has been broken by the Supreme Court, but the legal and jurist are still exposed to the use of resistance. Now, on November 24th, which is 33 years old, is one of the creeds of the Basque Use of 1982. This law was made on the pretext of this plot. How many years does it take to grow old by a law, Madam Chief? We know it's not a simple answer. According to the sopolitical events and changes, according to the law, and to other reasons, the law may last longer or less. For instance, because of the immense development of the technology of information and communication, the rules and laws belonging to the media are highly variable, because the media themselves are rapidly changing. As has been said, the chief law of reference is that of the 82, which is the first law of the autonomy of Araba, Biscai, and Gipu. The Euscara and its talk society had never had a rule and shelter, which is true. A very important law, seen from everywhere, is true. But this was not the source of the normalization of language. Fortunately the standardization of the eucalyptus started 14 years ago in 1968. The Euscatalidians and euscatalists still agreed to the fundamental standard of the unity of the Basque Sea. Hard and hard work. So, as soon as I was born, he found an account of the standard language in progress. The cassa was on the move. The process of the normalization of Euskar is a process of life, variable, and contradictory; in the midst of a generation, for instance, of vital loss, he was cutting into the eucalyptus without writing grammar, without education, and without standard standards. The Basque was barely able to hold out in the restricted fields of the peasant and fisherman. During the first legislation of the Gasfits, 60 members were elected: 25 EAJ, 11 HB, 9 PSE, 6 Basque Left, 6 UCD, 2 AP and 1 PCE-EPK. This was the law which was just mentioned. This law was formally protected by the EAJ, PSE, Basque Left, UCD and PCE-EPK political forces. 47 of the 60 legislatures (% 78k) protected the law. The law was protected by the sum of political votes, 686.216 votes. 75, just like that.) The position of the times may be said to have been a considerable degree of agreement. 33. Of the five political powers which protected the law three have been destroyed: UCD, Basque Left and PCE-EPK. There remains EAJ and PSE of the time in the present parliament, select 37% 57.33; or 585.5 votes per vote. 53, 75). Without speculating on the position of the new political forces of the present legislature, we may say that the degree of agreement which we have assumed has been reduced. Nevertheless, the basic law of normalizing the use of euphora has aged. We think it's time for us to renew the basic law of the Basque Use of Normalization. Thus there are two principal reasons: because the law has become obsolete and it takes a higher degree of consent to make the next step of normalization process possible. And these are the reasons of the interpenetration of the present day. What's it all about, and the Board of Education, Language, and Cultural and Cultural, in order to make the use of the legitimate or legal support of the firm, in order to make the settlements normal in the country and local administrations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. Isas. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u91	Mrs. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. After the Constitution of 1978, the American Autonomy, 1979, established, in fact, an officer like that of youth. He didn't have to be an officer with the young man, but to be an officer as a young man to the eucalyptus. The officer is an officer without Spanish crutches. It is the officiality of the great age that is acknowledged to support in our legal law of law. The right of supporting the townships and the rest is to be found in the Decreeian King 2568/1986, 1986 of the Constitutional Court, and in separate judgments of 2010. The Decree King quoted accepts the regulation concerning the Oral Organizations, the Administration, and the Juridic Rule. It's based on its 86.1.110.1 articles. This is what they say exactly: "Artículo 86.1: Las convocatorias de las mixedans, los órdenes del día... ', etcétera,' he said. Se redactarán en lengua castellana o en lengua coofilica en Comunidad Autónoma a la pertenezca la entidad." "Article 110.1: The provisions of Article 86.1 concerning the use of languages shall apply to the drafting of the minutes." Eta Auzitegi Konstituzionaren 82/1986 epaian, bere bigarren oinarri juridikoan honako hau esaten da hitzez hitz: "It is official a language when it is recognized by the public authorities as a normal means of communication, in and between them, and in their relationship with private subjects, with full validity and legal effects". Horrez gain, epai horren hirugarren oinarri juridikoan hauxe esaten: "Yes, it is inherent to co-officiality that, in the territories where it exists, the use of one language or another by any of the public authorities rooted in them has in principle the same legal validity, the possibility of using only one of them instead of both at the same time, and of using them indiscriminately." In our opinion, it is clear that the legal value of the sacraments written in eucalyptic. On the other hand, the sentence of the Constitutional Court plainly declares that the official record affects all the public authorities which have been placed in the Basque Autonomy Union. The sentence, on its ninth legal basis, expresses too much that public authorities may use one of the official languages, unless the rights of the interest which proves the knowledge of language, in this case, are violated. In our official system, the citizens have a right to choose the official language, and if they don't use it, they'll have to do their announcements in two official languages. But any one of the two official languages in the administration has the legal value, because they are both officers on the same level, and that the officership is not subordinate officers. And as the administration is obliged to transfer the documents and operations of any of the two official languages, they cannot limit the legal value of the eucalyptic documents, much less deny it. Not without violation of our legislation, and without compromising the constitutional principles and states of language. As to the right to use, and as to the legal value of the one and the other, the COLLECT is symmetrical or equal. But it is different from the social point of view, for it is evident that social instability between the euphorta and youth is evident; for that is why all nations are obliged to promote the use of miniatureized language, by the law of law. The state is obliged to submit to the third of the Constitution. according to the law of the article and of the Basque Act, and he is obliged to obey the letter of European language which has been established in Spain since 2001. According to the 7th article of this division, it is necessary that the people should develop a positive action in favor of smaller languages. Signers of the letter (that is to say, signers of the State) will have to perform the following: they will encourage or encourage their verbal and written use; they will watch over the authorities to use these languages; they will allow the authorities to write documents in such languages, and they will accept or encourage the use of those languages within the scope of local institutions. As you know, M. M. M. M. As for the rest, by the demand of Language, the development of the Juridical Law and Control report about this subject was made. He examined also the special Committee of the Medical Commission, and added the arguments which were to strengthen the value of the edicts of the law of the eucalyptus, in addition to the report of legality mentioned. The legal report mentioned was made in order to clarify and establish the legal position of M.M.M. and, by the way, to offer legal advice to municipal councils. So we sent word to every council in December 2014, of the Special Laws of the Decree Committee. Besides, we've also come to the project of the Basque Council. My opinion about this EukMIL is known to all of us. This opinion, both in this legislative, and in the media, has been shown more than once. The theme has been examined several times in the meetings of HAKOB, and, moreover, in the editorial and educating proceedings against five municipal councils (in fact, Beizama, Berga, Andoin, Elgeta and Oiarten) as a coded part of the Eucommenium, so that it is clear that the opinion of the AEsch. The judgments which we have known in September 2015, and above all, the 419/2005 judgements of the Central Court of Euskal Autonomy in Erdi, (read 7) only confirm that the Euscarese law offers a sufficient guarantee. This verdict of the Court of Justice is irrefutable, it is irresistible, and it establishes jurisprudence. It's quite clear: The 82 article of the Basque Law belongs to the relations between the administration and the citizen, of course not to the interests of the administration. And it is evident that the language of the people is respected by the community in the communication of the people and of the administration, whether the language which is chosen for the service or for the youth. And that is precisely why the authorities must be prepared to operate on any of the two official languages. On the other hand, any of the two official languages which are placed in the Esquimenia Escany may be effected by legal acts, both in equivalence and youth. Like the Euskian or Spanish. And the Administration can't argue that he doesn't understand an official language, that's what the courts say and that's the guarantee of the Basque Act. In addition to all this, the theme of language is being systematically collected in the projects of all scientific rules. In particular, the municipal law, which has a direct connection with the business of the townships, and which is in the tramite, is expressly given in articles 61, 6.2, 6.3, 7.1, 7.5, and 7.7. Mr. Isas, in all these articles of the local law project, is therefore evident, that every one who has been asked by you will be able to write on his own account. So the city law confirms the way it's given you up to now. Whether to accept this law or not, it is in the hands of this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u93	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mrs. Chief of Investigation, thank you for your explanation. I have a doubt whether the knowledge of the laws and the rules of which I spoke was the Knight of Lauda, the representative of the Government of the kingdom, when he attacked; and what he did in those long months, almost two years, to resist that attack. If he knew them, and the head physician himself, the Public Administration Act... Most of these have been, except what you have been talking about during the last period of your interference, the Norma of the Basques to remind you of the law, except that most of the rules and laws have been made on one side of Europe by the Constitutional resolutions and the law of the Public Administration of the State. I mean we find a greater protection in the regulations made by the State or Europe, than in its laws and regulations. Why did you let the Spanish Government train systematically against the municipalities? Why did he leave her? Why did he have to wait from the councils to make his legal report when they started protesting? Why doesn't it please you (Jewish) to defend it? We do not deny that there are no rules, we do not say that there is no one. What we ask is to lead that legal guarantee to practice. And curious, the excuse the representative of the Spanish Government mentioned was the law of 1982. There's a legal inability there. The representative of the Spanish Government presented about 500 appeals. In front of them, funk, as far as I know, didn't do anything against him, and from the council, at least, they've asked us more than once for a reference. It's true, and it's a pleasure to say that the dybat, we don't deny it when the session was done, was lighting things up. But what we're accusing is that it was a passive attitude in defense of the use of the funk. It was Passive. This attack had been taken from the very beginning of the law against the townships and the Basques. And in any case, there's still some doubt left. It's been 33 years since the Basque Normalization Act, the basic laws of the Basque Use. EITB, the lady's chief physician, is going to know how to do it when EIB did not exist. That is, when there was no use on the internet, when social networks did not exist, and that law was, as the Hadad name says, the Rule of the Language. We think it's time. For when they are said to be CO-COs, curious, and curious, it is very curious when they are mentioned in the Constitution, that the official language is Spanish, and that the other languages are not named at all, they may be CO-COs. The discussion would take a long time. In any case, what we think and ask of Mrs. And we would like to know what the head of the series thinks of that law, that law of the 33 years old, and above all what will be done, in order to secure its legal security in the use of the eucalyptus. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u94	Thank you, Mr. Isas. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u95	Mr. Isas, you are asking me what support we are going to take to the legal or practice, and I have already explained it to you at first, but I am going to make a little deeper about it. The subject here in question is essentially a legal and alegal subject. We believe that it is of no service to the eucalyptic rules of justice, which are pure, to the eucalogy and language of life. I'll tell you what, in spite of his obligation, and trying to keep the theme of the official languages out of the fruitless struggles, he's played with the firm legal position, and he'll continue to behave in this respect because he's also a member of social partnership. Hence, as I have already mentioned, the article 6 of the municipal law of the Tramite in this legislature, in words, says, "The first point in article 6. "Eussara, like Spanish, is an official language of local institutions in Basque Autonomy. And in this respect it will be the language of service and labour in their activities, which will have normal and general use." In a second point, in this article: "The calling of the organs of all the organizations, of matter, of motives, of particular suffrages, of decisions, of the decrees of the commissions of information, of decisions, and of the acts of the press may be made to be written in the following manner. This power may be made use of, if within the organization it does not know the rights of any member who is able to make use of it as he ought to be, unless the rights of any member are violated, without the prejudice of the 10/1982 fundamental law of the Basque Use. "When the elections, the acrobats, and the decisions are written on the eucalyptus, the copies and the summary will be sent to the Administration of the Esquiria Esquime, and the Administration of the State, following the First Law of the Office." And in the third place, also in this Article 6. "Toki, within the Euscal Autonomia Eremia, in communication with any other public administration within the organization, or even with any other particular, than with the opportunity of using one of the two official languages, must produce the necessary contrivances for the citizens to use the right to receive communications in other languages, without any formality or condition, which they may impose upon their citizens, or any obligation, upon them." As I said, it's in the hands of this legislature to decide the exact content of the city law is clearly on board, but the EukoMo has put a good instrument in the hands of the parliament to confirm the same value as two official languages.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, "Jon Azkue Manterola, a member of the Socialist Society, made to the Chief of Education, Language Politics, and Cultural Division, about the study of the Euquiskal Acid, and economic influence." Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u97	President andrea, sailburua. The political department, the Patxi Bazkers, introduced a report of Euscarese and Ekonomical action in Donostian, in an event organized by Eusksk and the NPLD European networks. In order to know the contents of this report, the Socialist team offered him a request for information in order to obtain a copy of this research from the Education, the Language, the politics, and the Cultural Department. But as we have seen, the report has since been published at the department website, and the request arrived yesterday with the report. The purpose of this study was to appreciate the economic wealth produced by Mr. Patxi Bazatrica in Euca, and to appreciate the dimensions and economic value of the doctors. Datu adierazgarriak ematearren, txosten honen arabera, "Euskera accounts for 4.2% of Euskadi's GDP, EUR 2.8 billion, a figure that rebels that the contribution of the Basque language to the Basque economy is more than considerable. Euskera generates a total of 56,142 jobs, and for other sectors it is behind health (8.8%), tourism (5.8%) or education (5.5%), but ahead of R & D+i, which has 2.1%". The deputy department spoke of all the variables which had been considered in proportion to the economic influence of the eucalyptus: the employment, the crudely added value, the crude internal product, the direct influence of the eucalyca in the economy, the indirect and induced action, the other. The definition of activities, judgements, and so many sectors connected with the Bactarics and language, which constitute the area of the Basque. But in this control meeting, more than the accuracy of the research, this group of legislatures would like to know by what specific criteria or data the eucalyptic is supposed to be %4,2% of the raw product of Eukadin. So this is the question that we're asking you, my lady physician.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u99	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Azkue, as you say, was introduced on the 15th of October, the Euskuke and the NPLD European networks. That's the same day the report was published on the site of fun, and, consequently, it's all available to you and everybody's people from then on. The full study has also been forwarded to the Basque Parliament, and all the details of the study will soon be reported in detail by parliamentary sitting in committee. The aim of research, called Euchara, and of Economic action, is to recognize the contribution of Euskal Autonomy economic economy, to measure the economic wealth produced by the eucalyca, and to appreciate the economy and economic value of the euca-sectors. And for this purpose, to measure the weight of a certain sector in the economy of a country, the most used macronomical variables, i.e. employment, raw value, raw production value, and raw internal product. And the last result of the study, in comparison with the general facts of Euskal Autonomy in the Erdigo, is the value of such variables as apply to the eucacra-sectors. So we arrived at the latest outcome of this research, namely, that the entire jobs of Escal economics are created by sectors of 6,28 euccany, which are related to economic activities connected with the crudely added value of the Euscal Autonomy economic economy of Erdigo, 4% of the crude internal product of Euskal Autonomy Ermia, 19sco.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u101	With all due respect, Madam Chief: Can we take this report of euphora as serious? As for the operation, education puts 36.422 jobs in the story. If we were to test the economic value for education, 36.422 would be reassembled into that report, to Education. For us, the Basque Socialists, the Basque itself is worth it. Nor does such reports contribute to the eucalyptus, because the citizens really do not understand it. That's our message today: the document is valuable and the report is not serious.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u103	Mr. Azkue, I also, with all due respect, disagree with you. And of course it's serious and we have to take it seriously! As to the methodology of work, if you ask what criteria or data we have used, as far as the methodology for work, the direct collection of information for this study has been calculated through the economic data obtained from Eustate, the economic magnitudes of economic influence. To give more precision, the principal sources used for investigating are the following: List of Eusta's economic activity guides, the Eustatian input/output tables, the pollasta of Eusta and SIADECO, the strategic sample of 336 stequimentations. 20 other sources have also been indirectly used: Basque Country University, Deustu University, Basque Editors Association, HABAE, Workspace or Topan, among others. On the other hand, it must be said that this inquiry does not measure the economic influence of service and activities which are developed in euphora, but of the sectors of activity which are strictly connected with language. Thus in this economic examination four major languages have been distinguished: the industry, culture, and media industry of the language, the activities of education and college, and the public administration. Four languages have been followed by these sectors by two criteria which should be considered as sectors or not determined: on the one hand, the product or service, strictly connected with language, and on the other, whether language is an activity or a necessary or natural means of product, that this language should be eucarated. In short, this study measures the economic wealth of the eucalyca, and gives the eucalyptic a quantum dimensions and economic value of the sectors. Thus, using the macronomical sources and variables which are commonly used for this purpose, this examination shows clearly that the activity of eupscal economics is more than one sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "Queer lópez de Mutuna Ganguza EH Collectors to the Chief of Education, Language Politics, and Cultural Department of the Cultural Project," Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u105	Yes, good noon to all. On the third of November, we again lived a free cultural space, self-exploited and partaker of it. Once again, the machines were subject to the urabanistic interests of the world, and were thrown into the choir. We talk a great deal about culture and culture, and we talk about sharing in culture, and the need to encourage the neighbourhood. But while the institutions, instead of protecting social interest and cultural interest, defend their economic interests unless they act or act. For this reason, the Basque People, in the whole company, present the next question to the chief physician of education, Language politics, and Cultural. And the question is: From the head physician's point of view, is it positive that in the initiative of young people there are self-resultural self-possessions and members of the community?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u106	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u107	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Auto-gested cultured space is positive to fun, of course it is. The Board of Education, Policy, and Cultural has from the beginning made a wager for the cooperation of the public and private sector, for the sake of co-operation with professional societies in various cultural sectors, and for the benefit of the pursuit of culture. This has been our bet from the first moment, and in this line we've worked through the law. For we have a specific program called the Sormen Lanes, a purpose to create and stabilize a network of independent centers by study, experimentation, conversation, and interaction. This government, as may be seen, contributes to independent centres, to serve the creators, and to socialize the creation of certain fashionable cultures. And as you ask my view, I will give you an example of what my opinion is: I'm talking about an action addressed to the young people, a student student of the university which I value positively. The student has a proper and self-conscious place for students. The events of his administration and his occupation are the same for the students, who organize their relations with the students, and encourage their leisure. The circle of students, employed for the pursuit of leisure, study, or culture. Horrelako ekimenak bullzatu behar say you had, bath, bath beti ere hauek beharrezko baldintzak betetzen dituztenean. Therefore, to the question of whether we positively value the existence of self-managed and participatory spaces, I have to answer that of course yes, as long as these spaces meet the required conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u109	As it could not be otherwise, of course you agree with the participatory spaces at the cultural level, but, as always, they do so as a mouthpiece. As always. You prioritize cultural investment on the continent (i.e. in buildings) rather than on content, cultural creation and basic culture. They prioritize the elite and mercantile culture before the social culture emanating from the people. And meanwhile, they wrap up in cellophane their pseudo plan of Kultura Auzolanean. They prioritize private property and private interests in the face of common interest. They prioritize and put forward the interests of the women builders, and they fear very much, very much, the cultural activity generated in a self-managed and free way by the young people of Kortxoenea. You don't want young people who don't depend on institutions to organize themselves. They want them acritical, they want them independent, they want them assimilated, they want them within their model of cultural consumption. You will be able to defend money and private and private interests by creating new solars, as you already did with Kukutza, but the reality is that you will always have in front of your excavators people willing to create and generate alternatives in their streets, in their neighborhoods, in their cities and in their villages. And the globalized culture, the elite culture, and the market culture, we clearly declare that we want the Cork to live. "Y tenga thinks una cosa clara, do you know what I mean? "Quum aqua tampoco nadie se rind."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u110	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u111	With all due respect to you, I don't think you understand anything. The Cultural operators, people, collective people, corporations, and institutions make a culture, and we are not talking about subordinates; About culture. That's what we're fully convinced of. This is why we make so important an effort to help and promote culture and management, to start from a view of shared government and private public cooperation, because we are conscious of the importance of men and creators in the sphere of culture. Besides, we believe in the ability to manage space, initiative, leisure, etc. I mentioned a project that encourages it. There you go. However, I don't think it has much to do with the Koreen case you've brought us here. The young people who gave him social and cultural use was a busy building of corks. It must be said that the young men who occupied this building were not the headlines of the building, nor of its administration or exploitation. And what has happened in this building is simply this: Thanks to the new general plan approved by the EH Collector, the owner of the building wanted to use the right to make garages. You agreed to this plan when you were at the council, and now you're reviewing it? The final end of legal and intermediary after the entire process has been completed. In any case, I insist, this aspect has little to do with the opinion of the Basque Government regarding the existence of self-managed cultural spaces. This Government is committed to cultural creation in its various forms, cultural industries, independent creators, public-private collaboration, shared governance and the management of spaces by young people. All this for the benefit of a culture more accessible to citizens, which is and must be our main objective. And we're working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-13.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-seven.
