ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the Union. Before we proceed to the subject list, remember that Ana Ottadui is a member of the legislature. Preceding theme: "Motion, my brother, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Basque Group, the Director of EIB. With respect to the motive, to decide once and for all the drawings of the entire 5th party of March, following the 92.1 article of the Ruler." It was a draw by the Popular Basque and Mistto-UPyD team in the middle-effect correction. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we'll remake the correction vote. We'll vote for the population party and the Misto-UPyD media correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 71; the votes given, 72; the opposites 26; the 27th, the whites, the 0; the abstainments, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u1	Thus the correction of the medium is cancelled. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 71; the votes given, 72; the opponents of the 19; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u2	The correction to the EH Shades integer was not accepted. And in conclusion, we vote for the total correction that the Eubertarian party has submitted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 27; the opponents of the enemy, 45; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u3	Thus the eucipators have not accepted the full correction which has been introduced by the party. First point in theme list: "Mation, introduced by the members of the House of Xabier Isasi Balanzaria, the parliamentary of the Araba, Bizia, and Gipuzata, the representative of the Spanish Government. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Isas, it's your word to introduce and remove the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u4	President of the legislature, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. We need to talk again about the situation of the euphoria in this interrogation, and we're moving the decisive moment during the normalization process of support, because a change of tendency is taking place in our eyes. The democratic data of the censorship, the data above the use of the emolus, the data on the language of stalls and consumers, all indications in general show us that the speed of the process of normalization has been lowered, as far as possible as the increase of growth. And in this state, where the process of recovery is slowing down, especially the assault on the shores of Charles Urquijo, appears to us to be very serious. We say an attack, yes, because the representative of the Spanish government has no jurisdiction in the field of language, and has deliberately sought it as a point on purpose. Mr. Urquijo has behaved in a most malicious and imperious manner. In the first place, it is because he has chosen the little eucalyptic townships for his own sake, because he thinks they are the weakest. In command, because he has taken advantage of his office, he has threatened to send in the municipal assemblies to ask them to send him a check. Mr. Urquijo makes a bad use of the basic law of Euskioization. He wishes to impose eloquence where it is in the Euskade, but in the place where there is youth he pretends to be ignored. When we requested him for information on the administrative and penal accusations brought by the representatives of the Government, he replied that the administration and administration of the State belong to the Supreme Court. Authority again. When they talk about transparency, who will believe you when they talk? We know that Carlos Urquijo is obedient to the Spanish government. It is clear that orders are taken from Madrid, like the highest of Generalismo. But things have changed and the fourth Commander has to account for his organizations. The municipal assemblies of the country, the legislature, the representative of the Spanish Government, must be answered. And this is exactly what we want to accuse and correct in this motive. The representative of the Spanish Government has marched against 75 townships. Almost all these townships, with the Gipulias and all the Esscal townships, the townships of the Basques. As light is published in the paper in the last place, here is the map of shame, the map of the Spanish Government's shame. He struck against the enemy, and struck against the eucalyptic townships. It is not precisely, and we wish to make it clear, that the Basque Country which most frequently brings about this legislature is not the subject of the Euscha. Others are. We want to respond to these un justificationless attacks. In any case, it's all right to discuss language policies in this Chamber. Because the normalization of language is, in fact, a social, cultural, and especially a political process. The hardest step in the Euskar's normalization process was to create the standard eucalyptus, which was called a battleship. This was the starting point of the united eucature, exactly 1968. what set forth in the year. This is in the normalization of language, and in this case in the normalization of the cradle, the most difficult step. The standardization of language had put an end to the lyrical division, and consequently the origin of the united eucalyptus had put an end to the loss of speed. During these years, we've been working on duplica in the '50s,' the work of the Basques, of the tongues, and of the euscal operators has been completely successful. A total dictatorship in time and even after. Already a compact is a standard, strong, and fully accepted language. Which means that we have a model of language like the young man to be able to use in all his forms and modifications at the university or in the economy, in industry or in this Chamber. Basques have developed language, strong and effective. The basic work of settlement is done, we've done the hardest, but now we're doing the hardest. We're playing the hardest part to get the normalization of the cradle. As the Socialists say, we're working on the status of language. It is not enough to have a standard language model to live language, otherwise look at the classic languages: Latin, Greek classic, etc. The Basque, in order to be a living language, ought to acquire more than the common standard, a well-known state: To begin with the minimum number of speakers, even the compact talk group, of course being an official language, the education of the local administration, the language of the media, and so on. This, indeed, is the hardest task to accomplish the normalization of the Basque Sea. We've been working on this business for the past few years, and that's the process that's caused us trouble and trouble. On a level in Araguaia, Gipuzia, and Nafarroa, we succeeded in an official education, and in 1982 the fundamental law of the use of Euscarese was admitted to the Gastian law. The work of public institutions and of the administration of the people is essential. We may say that this is the one part of politics, i.e. politics, if we succeed in the normalization of the lock at this moment. Euskar needs politics if the language is still alive. Euscalidian did the right job and he's doing the most useful standard language, so that we can have the most effective and effective language. We've become a vulgar Basque language. It's good for anything, I've said before: it serves to explain the final case of corruption, and it serves to discuss the causes of financial institutions; it serves to give us a description of the technology to produce neuters, and it serves to investigate the supposed irregularity of the investigation in some bank. It's a language that's already good for anything else. The other thing is that language is diminished and that it does not echo enough with its trembling. In other words, that in the case of what is said and done of obstinacy, such censors are imposed on him, as we say of obstinacy, that he is placed in a secondary degree, that he conceals himself in the media, that he is of no importance, that we place what is said of constancy in the second rank. And that must be changed. Despite the official language of the Basques, he has not yet acquired the extent which belongs to the local administration and public institutions. The order of appeals to the representative of the Spanish Government has revealed the weaknesses which are in the law. what may be done by the Spanish itself, and which is generally done, cannot be maintained. It's a Basque-century language, you can't use it unless you're next to Spanish. On Monday the Basque People were assembled for the appearance of Education, of Language, of the head physician of the Cultural Department, because that section concerns the political line of the normalization of the eucalyptus, the language is the policy of that division. That's why we asked for the show. After listening to the explanations of the Chief of Investigation and the Chief of Staff, we wanted to thank our interference for the change and the efforts of the department to support the townships. And we were surprised that the reply from the deputy-at-arms of Language, which, in a tone of irritation, had not been changed in their turn. It may be that our attitude has changed and we haven't noticed it. Or that we have seen him unexpectedly, that his attitude was nearer to us, without knowing why. But it may be that the ambition of the chief physician blinds him, and that he always wants to be in the baptism of red feet, the Nobia bodan, and the pig in the pig's stomach. It's hard to agree without changing your attitude. We want to agree around the cradle as wide as we can. That's what we need. We don't want it and we don't like it because it's so much more of an effort, but we won't bend, we won't get off the sidewalk. It's about dignity. We'll just hold onto the cradle. We'll talk about it. We're sick of insult, we're sick of contempt, of irony and false pity. It's not all funties and we're not the Basques that we need to change the chip. We just want to live on our own. In our original motion, we asked for four points. To defend the rights of the laughing and the President, because it seems to us that he is not only at stake here, is the way to make politics, is the last of his freedom; we were asking the President to defend his jurisdiction. The second minute we'd ask him to take over the defense of local administrations. The third point is to send the European letter of the Shires and Space Language to the Representative, to read and perform it. And at the fourth point, that figure disappears again. Finally, we've come to agree with the Jestg Party of the Eugal. I'd like to thank Purane Mountain for his generosity and his work. We think it's an important subject, and we think it requires politics, I said that we have to look for it, and that we have to renew the way this law has to cover up its leaks. We'll work for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u5	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you, counselors. In his initiative Mr Isasi speaks of and denounces an alleged campaign promoted and carried out by the government delegate, Carlos Urquijo, against the use of Basque and linguistic normalization. If such a purpose existed, it would obviously have to be censored, both by the alleged campaign and by the attitude of the Government delegate. However, there is no such campaign and, therefore, there is nothing to blame. There's no campaign, Mr. Isas's campaign. Long, weary, tedious campaign. Mr Isasi, in short, a victim of his own linguistic obsessions, which blind him politically and prevent him from doing his best, and which surely prevent him from being entirely happy, continues his particular campaign. Yes, his particular campaign against the euskera, because there is no better way to attack the euskera than to use it sectarianly. Not even his attitude favors the Basque, on the contrary, it harms him. Your behavior doesn't do it any good, it hurts him very much. In fact, we think that the Basque has historically had two enemies: those who tried at the time to ban it and those who now intend to impose it. Indeed, the Basque, as has been said, applies to anything, to defend freedom or to defend an obsessive and impossive linguistic policy. The important thing, in any case, is not the continent but the content. It's important, not the bowl. In the face of the enemies of Basque, we demand the freedom of language and the free adherence of citizens, and in the face of tired obsessions, unacceptable abuses, coercive measures and the most obtuse imposition, we defend more freedom, not less. Languages are instruments to communicate. However, some patriots want to impose. In this way they break the people's rights, and do not, moreover, succeed in pushing and strengthening the use of resistance. On the contrary, they do a great deal of harm to the Basque. Mr Isasi, who is therefore a victim of himself and his linguistic obsessions, refers to certain remedies brought by the government delegate before certain actions or agreements adopted by various institutions. Among them, the transmission of records only in Basque, signposts on Gipuzcoan roads, no placement in certain institutions of the Spanish flag, certain anti-law plans of Basque, certain subsidies granted to associations that would violate the law and would imply an insult and contempt to the victims of terrorism, tributes to members of ETA imprisoned, the inclusion of Basque as a requirement in public contracts, posters in favor of ETA prisoners, aid to relatives of prisoners of ETA or the claim of Udalbiltza to promote the creation of a Basque DNI. In any case, Mr Isasi focuses on those actions of the delegate which have to do with linguistic policy or Basque, and in particular the minutes only in Basque. The explanation, in any case, applies to all cases. The delegate of the Government appealed and the courts ruled, and it seemed, by the way, that in a very high percentage of cases he was justified. Let us not forget that its role is to ensure the fulfilment of the powers conferred constitutionally on the State and the correct application of its legislation, by promoting or intervening in conflicts of jurisdiction, powers, remedies and other legally derived actions, i.e. defending the law and its compliance. And that is, therefore, the function it fulfils. I say, the delegate of the Government appeals when he considers it appropriate and the courts rule. Given that Bildu governs many municipalities and that it governs the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, it is logical that the government delegate should be accumulated the work, in fact he may soon need to expand the staff. We, in any case, respect the work you do and, in addition to that, we say and propose what our whole amendment says. We propose that the Basque Parliament demand and defend respect for the rule of law and compliance with the existing law against those who seek to violate them with unacceptable excuses in a democracy. Not only citizens but also institutions and governments must strictly respect the law. We also propose that this Parliament declare that all languages, including Basque, are vehicles of communication between people and that it censor all decisions and actions which seek to discriminate against and harm citizens for linguistic reasons. And we also propose that this Parliament declare that the Basque has had and has basically two enemies: those who tried to ban it and those who are now trying to impose it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u7	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u8	Egun where you're going. I will start by recalling some things that should not be necessary to repeat, but in the terms in which this debate is taking place, which has already begun a few days ago, I think it is necessary to say them. The first is that the consideration of a language as an official language in an autonomous community implies that in the relationship between administrations located in its territory, that language can be used with full legal effect. To have to remember this is a sample of the caress that is taking the situation. In our case, the use of both Basque and Spanish is fully valid and has full legal effects, without having to accompany it with the corresponding text in the other official language. But, along with this statement, it should also be noted that in Euskadi we have a law, the Basic Law of Euskera, which was based on a broad consensus on the subject, a consistent consensus, a consensus which has been generally praised as one of its greatest strengths. And it is in this law of the Euskera that public administrations are required to use simultaneously and jointly both official languages in their acts, resolutions, official documents, etc. It is therefore necessary that the minutes of the municipal plenary, among other documents, be published in both languages. And it is also important that we remember what were the documents of a linguistic consensus with these characteristics. Firstly, because it was understood that, given the sociolinguistic characteristics of the country – and it is important that we think about what are the sociolinguistic characteristics of Euskadi, what is the linguistic plant in which we move in both languages – this ensured a much wider and wider use of the Basque language than would correspond to that reality. And although there are non-compliances, it must be recognized that this has been the case in practice. Thanks to this legal obligation, the use of euskera in public administrations is much more extensive than the social reality it is based on. And the second foundation of that consensus was the need to protect the linguistic rights of those who know only one of the official languages, without imposing on them the burden of requiring documents in the official language of their choice. We all know that the exercise of that right remains a burden with very difficult implications to bear in many places in our country, even today. There are councillors who do not know Basque, do not receive the records in Spanish or the communications from their town hall and do not claim them translated because the environment conditions them. This is happening too. Finally, I would like to stress that the linguistic pact that we have allowed the promotion of Basque for 33 years now, without conflict, because we have respected the right of citizens to the free choice of language – the councillors are – and the obligation of the public authorities to guarantee that right – the city council is a public institution. And that has made it possible to advance the promotion of the Basque region, which has been made with enormous personal efforts and devoting considerable resources. All this has been possible thanks to respect for the basis of a comprehensive agreement, a political and social agreement that has supported the implementation of a good law, based on the interest of Basque and the guarantee of the linguistic rights of citizens. Two aspects, two columns, two zutabes that can never be forgotten and that if we want to cancel each other will fall. Let's think about it. Despite this reality, a few days ago the councillor and the deputy councillor defended here in a commission that it was not obligatory to have municipal records in both official languages. In doing so, the Basque Government is seeking to circumvent the pact on which consensus was reached on the Euskera Act, but without expressly suggesting its intention to amend it. This is politically unacceptable to those who, like us, were indispensable parts of that consensus. If the Government or the PNV want to break that pact, they want to amend it or they want a new pact, to do so expressly and to put it before Parliament, and then we will discuss it openly. But be aware of what it means to break that covenant. If it is intended that where PNV and Bildu feel able to impose the exclusive use of Basque..., on what basis they will demand the use of the two official languages where there are no Basque speakers or where their number is insignificant or simply minority. Taking into account, moreover, that there are no municipalities with 100 % of Euskaldunes, one of the municipalities in question, Bergara, for example, has 68 % of Euskaldunes. Does 32% of the rest of the population not have to read the city's notices in the language they know? From your town hall, from your public institution. It is irresponsible for the Government to go down a path the consequences of which can be very serious. The Basque Government is endangering the linguistic peace in which linguistic policy has fundamentally developed so far. But if it continues along this path, the Government will have to assume its responsibility for contributing to its breakup and for triggering a process of unpredictable consequences. In addition, in the heat of this debate on municipal proceedings, the Basque Government intends to make partial amendments to the Law of 82, to the Law of the Euskera, using the municipal bill. Changes in some case of silence, such as that the minutes, agreements, etc., can be written in Basque "as long as they are not injured", I am quoting textually what the Government's draft says, "the rights of any member of the local entity who can validly claim that the Basque is unknown". We're changing the burden of proof. A Basque citizen no longer has the linguistic right to use either of the two official languages according to this, but has to claim that he does not know the Basque language so that they can supply him in the language he knows the administrative act. That is, that a councilman loses the right to freedom of language choice – I emphasize it and repeat it because of its importance, it is one of the pillars of consensus – and can only exercise it if he can validly claim that the euskera is unknown. And how will you do that? Swearing you don't know Basque? How will he do that? Because that's what the bill says. But, in any case, one of the pillars of the Euskera Law would disappear: freedom of choice to use the language. That's written and that's the way it is. Well, we socialists do not agree with that intention, because the Euskera Law is fundamental, it is basic – not in a legal sense, it is fundamental – by bringing together in a balanced way all the elements related to the Basque and by based on a political consensus, a consensus of the whole, which made it possible, which requires that from the political point of view it is not altered if it is not expressly and conscious that it is altering what is stipulated in it. With the transaction that PNV and Bildu have reached today, they support this path of fracture and insist on an artificial confrontation and above all harmful to linguistic peace. Look, the way you have achieved this transaction, with all due respect, indicates the fracture that is taking place here today, because usually, in my case, I deal with all groups when someone has an initiative is addressed to me, Mr. Isasi, with whom I maintain a good relationship, usually does so, and in this case, as his initiative has not done so. I know it's not out of contempt. It is because it considers that it must take a path in which it can only accompany it by the PNV, that the socialists will not be able to participate in this transaction, even in the attempt to accept in even a new pact the socialists. I mean, the nationalist community is consciously here today introducing a clock bomb into the Basque consensus, which I don't know if they're aware of what they're doing. But the fact is what I'm telling you. In conclusion, I will tell you that the Socialists want to flee from the rigid positions that carry the conflict in their own entrails, as we are seeing here today. We want internal relations in Euskadi between their administrations in which we all assume the simultaneous official character of both languages. But at the same time ensuring in the relationship with the citizens, and among them it is important to highlight the councillors, that they do not have to bear any burden by demanding documents in the language they know, especially when in certain places this means marking them publicly. That is why we maintain our amendment, which seeks to have this Parliament reaffirm the validity of the linguistic pact in order to guarantee all the linguistic rights of citizens and also, at the same time and at the same level, the protection of the Basque language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u9	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Eubertarians represent the team, Your Honor, Your word is Yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u10	Good morning and thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chiefs of departments. At the Cultural Committee last Monday, as has been said here, we discussed this very subject, and we know that it's starting to get into trouble. The Council of Beizama asked for his assistance, and in this case he will adopt, in the words of the deputy board, "The Government has decided to participate in this affair because it is of general interest." As we were told by the chief physician and the deputy physician, they have seen it with anxiety and astonishment since the beginning of the subject, because the representative of the Spanish Government is doubting its full official position. As we heard at the board, "la validez de ambas lenguas es un principio constincinal y statusari." El eesz es lingua oficial sin tenga que tener el acompañamanito del castellano." It is absurd to suppose that a language loses its officiality if it does not use it to the other. Mr. Urquijo, with the way he behaves, wants to take a terrible turn back. As has been said, the jurisdiction which the law confers upon him is overcome, and the political activity of the eussa institutions is continually in the way of judicialization, in order to submit to the courts. As we said two years ago, he has become the fortress of Spanish interests. Mr Urquijo has become a bastion of Spain's interests. He acts like the actor who would have achieved the role of his life. The provincial Government of Spain scorns the laws which it has so often praised, by reducing the constitution and the state to the fundamental rights and liberties of the people. He doesn't like the effective language policy and the laws he respects in his instructions, and he's constantly using them for confession. He's the one who's breaking the law. "Ming has worked two lines so far, and that's what he's doing." Mr. Erkorez said that on Friday he'd made a very corresponding report. And accordingly the Government has clearly asserted that the statements written in eucalyptic terms are of legal value. That report's in the hands of the councils, and they've had a number of meetings with UOM, and they've also got the advice they need on that side. On the other hand, no public authority here, even the administration of the State, can say that they do not know them as an argument, because they are obliged by public administration to transfer the documents to a close, which is in the law. Mr. Urquijo can't use it as an office that doesn't understand the notes written in eucalyptus and ask him to go forward with his youth. If he succeeds, he is the law of steps, because the state is obliged to submit, as well as the rest, to do so. And as the great beasts of the field sang, "I can't all walk the same way. Some of them prefer the narrower, others the broad ones. Let each deep one think that he is always on the eucalyptic side above all the games." That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Passing over to the group that hasn't issued any corrections, Mr. Oyalge, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The nationalists, this is not the first time we have said this in this House, have always tried to implement the Basque, I am convinced of it. They have always tried to make it a heritage; moreover, in an exclusive way. They have manipulated concepts that we have all shared for many years, simply to bring it to their political strategies. They didn't want it to be used to unite, they've always tried to use it to divide. They have betrayed the will and effort of the vast majority of Basque society, which has been, which is with the Basque, which has made a shared effort to recover the language, but which mostly defended linguistic coexistence, which mostly this society defended a bilingual community, building a bilingual country, which knows how to respect, which knows how to share. The People's Party, like most of Basque society, has defended linguistic freedom, the use of Basque and Spanish as the languages of our Community, naturally, without imposition, recognizing our socio-linguistic reality, our different socio-linguistic realities, the different socio-linguistic realities of our Community. The promotion of euskera, social support, the effort of education in the task of euskaldunization, the illusion of so many people over these 35 years. The learning of people outside of school, of adults, of those who wanted to make an effort not to lose opportunities. The effort and suffering of so many. I'm a deputy for Álava. What effort has the Alavesa society made, which has been required at many times during these 35 years, to the extent of the Gipuzcoans who already knew the language? How many Bilbaos, how many Alaveses, how many Basques who didn't know the language have closed the doors of the Administration? How many Basques have lost job opportunities, but have assumed that they had to make an effort? How much suffering has there been in education as well? How many teachers have been displaced because there was a need to increase the pace of euskaldunization, because this society was committed to making our community a bilingual community? How much effort do you want, with your linguistic fundamentalism, to pull over the edge? The greatest enemies of the Basque, they told you before, are these new Taliban of the tongue, the new Taliban of the tongue. The radical nationalism of Bildu, which passes the consensus through the arch of triumph, which seeks permanent confrontation and which puts the euskera always in the picota. It is not others who have brought these debates into this legislature, it is you, it is always you who bring this debate. And they put the euskera in the picota, always at the service of their political strategy, regardless of the consequences. And ruling nationalism, the one that he lets do, as he always did during these 35 years, in this area and in others. The ruling nationalism, which always allows the most radical ones to do, in this equidistance between law enforcement and non-compliance with the law. Difficult equidistance. For some time now, ladies and gentlemen, we have been witnessing a strategy perfectly designed from Bildu and his environment, to end bilingualism by the way of the facts, because they do not like it, they do not want a bilingual society. A strategy perfectly designed to violate the law. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it is a perfectly designed strategy from the municipalities led by Bildu to test, by provocation and by violation of the law, the response of the institutions. They are testing the response of the institutions, they are testing the response of the central Government and the Basque Government to their provocations. They are testing the answer, to know exactly whether they can do what they want or not, and to what extent they will receive that answer. By deliberately seeking a scenario that puts the Basque in the focus of the political confrontation. They always seek, before each election, and we are ahead of a municipal election, they always seek a scenario of confrontation that puts the euskera at the centre of the political debate. And besides, looking for enemies outside in this case. Returning to seeking enemies outside trying to deceive society, Mr.Isasi, trying to deceive society and hiding the shames of a nationalism that controls all power in the Basque country, which is a hegemonic in Gipuzkoa. A nationalism that is hegemonic in Gipuzkoa and that is now trying, with this mess and with this controversy against the government delegate, to hide that it is unable to advance the euskera in Gipuzkoa. Yes, you, who govern Gipuzkoa, who maintain hegemonic power in Gipuzkoa, with the umbrella of the Basque Nationalist Party in Basque institutions, you who control the outlying and municipal institutions of Gipuzkoa are unable to recognize that their policies of imposition do not advance the Basque, but quite the contrary. But they try to hide that, they try to hide that their policies are not moving forward and they try to blame the government delegate. Yes, and they are now seeking to blame the government delegate for trying to enforce the law in defence of the rights of some citizens who do not know the language. And that all that that government delegate does is defend the law, the Basque laws, the laws passed by this Parliament, yes, the Law on the Use of the Euskera. And other laws, of course you are seeking to violate other laws, the Constitution, the Statute. But you are also failing to comply with the laws passed by this Parliament by an absolute majority from your municipalities. You, of course, show that the laws of this Parliament matter to you, only to you when you favor your interests and your political strategies. In our view, we must denounce an intrepid and unjust campaign against the government delegate, Carlos Urquijo, who deserves our full support and who wants to give him our full support from here, so that he can continue to do what he is doing. Because the delegate of the Government in this case has to receive from here not only our support, but also hear our denunciation against this unjust and entrepreneurial campaign against his work. Because of course I think you are showing a lot of courage, yes, you have to have a lot of courage to face you, with all your media spotlights, yes, in that campaign of persecution. And in addition, we will explain to you what resources we are talking about, because I want you to know most of the House, what resources we are talking about. To date, there are no 900 resources placed by the Government delegate, as has been said in many media outlets and which repeat it, no. 68 appeals have been filed. Motivations of different nature, basically three. 30 appeals against the promotion of compulsory knowledge of the Basque language in the contracting documents of the administrations. We are not talking, listen, gentlemen of the PNV, that if you communicate, yes, too, but we are not talking about communications between administrations, we are talking about the requirement of compulsory knowledge in the relationship with administrations. It originates not in a decision of the government delegate, but in an investigation file opened by the European Union to the Kingdom of Spain as a result of a complaint made at the time by a Euro MP from another group, in this case UPyD, for linguistic discrimination. It was the European Union that prompted this denunciation. Of those 30 appeals, one has already been resolved, and it has been decided in favour of the Government Delegation, by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, that we do not have to go to Murcia, which has been the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country that has decided in favour of the Government Delegate in relation to the appeal in relation to the Zarautz City Council. And there are 23 other resources that have been nullified because the municipalities led by you have been enchanted, have retreated, have recognized that they do not comply with the law, and only remain alive 6. But I'm just going to tell you what the resources are for. Two paragraphs on the granting of aid, which says that the supporting memorandum of the subsidy, ladies and gentlemen, will be drafted in Basque, in order to apply for a subsidy in that municipality, will have to be drafted in Basque or Basque and Spanish, but the percentage of the subsidy, it is said, will be obtained in the following way: exclusive use of Spanish, 0 % subsidy; in the case of exclusive use of Basque for the dissemination of the activity, 100 % of the subsidy. Hey, are you guys chothing or what? Are you hiding from this society, from this country, from the citizens who live in Zarautz and who do not know Basque? Is this your way of making the grant slips? And when you say, "You abide by the law, you respect the rights of those who do not know Basque in your municipality," do you say that there is a government delegate campaign here? This is a shame. I stay for the second round, because here are a few pearls of what you are doing in the city halls, of the shame we have to bear of what you would do if you had more government responsibilities. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u13	Thank you, Mr. Oyre generous. Passing on the answers, Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u14	President of the legislature. Good morning again. Antonio de Nebraija used to say, "la lengua, compañía del imperio." I should've said it myself, but... Mr. Vice Reyes, my friend, do you think that you and I, as members of the legislature, have the same deal in this Chamber? Do you really think we get the same deal in this Chamber? I have made a choice. I insist. Because I make resistance here, do I oppress the rights of one of you? This institution took upon itself the responsibility, and made them interpreters, which enables me to maintain my right. But do you think that you who are of the circumcision have received the same treatment? Not really. I said it and I say it again, we're censored by the rest of us. Besides, you ask more than once without shame." You know that I am eloquent, you all know I am eloquent, and you know I have no objection to many of you, and I am not ashamed, I love my speech. But I have made a choice, and I want to have some Basque institutions. Our society will be eloquent, only when the orator is a Basque. It is a lie, Mr Oyharland, that the rights of those who do not know of resistance are crushed. It's a lie. That's a lie, that's what it's like when it's made political use against the eucalyptus. That's a lie. Plantation here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u15	Mr. Oyre generous, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u16	... for a long time the normalization of the euphoria... I mean, what we Basque need isn't for people... There is not a living person who has not language in the world, least of all has a language. And every person has a right not only to be language, but to have a right. And every man has a right to be public institutions in his own language. Here there is an asymmetry, and that assimmetry is still for the boy. What you're asking is to last assimmetically in reality. What you ask for is that there may be rest, at least you say "holyo" that you can live by the side of the rainbow. And we say that we are masters enough, that we have obtained a standard, and that we have all the right to be able to live upon it, and that we have not the right to live by it. We may obtain mutual agreement, and we may give the means not to crush other men's rights of language, as this Chamber does, if you respect it so that we may be able to act in the language we please. For here, not away from here, the eucalyptus is avoided here more than once, directly or indirectly, because there is no service in the assembly-room, because there is no interpretation service, and we are compelled to rebel. I'd like to remember, and here in all respects there were some brave names, if you'd like me to put on-" And I shall mention here the well-known person, the one who created ETB in Ramon Labay, or Martin U, the Jesuits, in his time, were obliged to go on with the difficulty and the struggle. Or I had a chance to meet Juan Martin, Socialist. Or Joxem Zumalabe. This hurts someone because the light is in a kiosk, because it's euphorous, is it to be put into two words? But it's stupid to plan it. Eloquence, Lord Oyhar generous, we live eloquence, we are the two eloquent, eloquence is not proclaimed, it is done. And that's what we want. And that's why we agreed. And we don't want a break-up. The basic Normaization of the cascade has already turned into 32 years and it seems to us that we have to renew it because the cradle needs a fresh impulse because we're living in a pause. We'll try that way. You who are to reflect, [are] you who desire the people. And when you talk about eloquence, to plan from a single word, lies on the basis. Respect the choice of life. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u17	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u18	Mr. Isasi. But if you are the ones who violate people's rights, you are obsessed, tired, boring the sheep, always talking about the same thing. People are not tools at your service, people are above languages, people cannot be used to impose one language or another, they are not for that. The ultimate goal is to defend the rights of citizens, not the rights of languages, languages have no rights. We are always with the same thing, saying basic things that anyone but you understand, because you are obsessed, because you put a certain language before the rights of the citizens you have been trampling on for many years. That's the reality, and we've been quiet and quiet too long. We have given some good ideas that you have taken, rather than saying that you were not right and that immense abuses have been committed in Euskadi as a result of the linguistic policies that have been implemented. That is the reality, we have been too quiet, even when it ruled the Socialist Party, that instead of modifying certain laws and correcting certain actions it practically did not change anything. Too long silenced and silent, enduring the violations of the fundamental rights of thousands of people, who have had to endure an abusive linguistic policy, thousands of people who have had to leave even Euskadi because they did not find work here in the public administration. You forget all about it, people care about it. The obsession, the tongue, the euskera, for you is more important the euskera than anyone else. Of course, you're nationalists, that's the problem. Should the minutes be published in both languages? Yeah. Therefore, the law is violated when it is not done, final point. But we are not just talking about the law, because breaking the law is extraordinarily serious and in Euskadi it has been done for too long. What is even serious is that with this initiative and with your interventions, Mr Isasi, and with the intervention of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, what they intend to do ultimately is to put a language before people. And we're never gonna admit it. They trample on people's rights. Victims of their obsessions, they seek to break up coexistence, to raise walls among fellow citizens, to incommunicate people, to use a language to pretend to incommunicate people. Look at what contradiction, defending a certain linguistic policy so that people can't communicate with each other. And they obviously hinder, they try to harm the political work of dozens of councillors, because they ultimately want to censor them and their political ideas. That's what they're trying to do. The languages, Mr Isasi, are to communicate, they are not for anything else, all of them. The absurdity, therefore, is to use them to separate and divide people, or to hinder communication between people. You love Spanish. I don't love Spanish, I don't love Basque. I love people, some more than others, it's also true. But all I do is try to defend citizens' rights. I don't love Basque, I don't love Spanish, it's a communication vehicle, it's an instrument for people to communicate with each other, that's the fundamental goal, Mr. Isasi. You don't understand. Do the nationalists have a remedy? For nationalists hardly have a remedy, because, I say, they do not admit a principle or they do not admit a principle that should be fundamental: that languages are for people, not people for languages. Languages are for people. If there were no people, there would be no languages. They don't admit this. You have no remedy, I'm afraid. They have no remedy. People are not objects. And I certainly don't know what Mr. Carlos Urquijo will do. Knowing him, it's possible to think he's going to continue in his line. But in any case, UPyD is also not going to shut up and will continue to denounce all these things that you say, that you are merely trying to violate and trample upon the rights of the citizenry. Finally, Miguel de Unamuno said: "Nationalism is the horn of exalted people who have been thrown away by indigestions of bad history." Faced with the cracks of some, we will continue to defend people's coexistence and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u19	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u20	Eskerrik asko, walking president, screaming. Mrs Mendizabal, you just said that the Basque is above the parties. That's an obvious thing I share, but that's what you're saying that's going to bring about a consequence. That means that we will have to look for all parties to work for the Basque, for the Basque. And how do we marry that with which the nationalist community here today has sought a transaction in exclusivity, without seeking other approaches to those we have shared for 33 years and a consensus that has sustained the impressive advance of the Basque. One thing is rhetoric and another thing is what you are doing here today. Isasi jauna, lagoon. You say that if we both got the same deal and concluded that we didn't. In this institution, where there is simultaneous translation, where the written texts are translated, and yet, if ever, by some judgment or a lack of recourse, there is no, there is not the same treatment, you understand. I really believe that it is a distortion of reality so strong, based on something that is tremendous for what we are discussing today, that it is a fundamentally voluntarist attitude towards linguistic policy. And there is much of the substance of the disguisedness that PNV and Bildu are committing today in unison: voluntarism above consensus, which has to be above reality and the adaptation to reality looking to the future and to the progress of the language. There it is. Look, a few days ago in the commission – let me remind you – you said that the Spanish Constitution did not support Basque. And I replied, of course, that you were thinking voluntarily to the extent that you forgot that the Statute, which I think you think helps the Basque, is not the Spanish Constitution, is a constitutional block. The Spanish Constitution is the guarantee, including the Statute, that we have given ourselves and that by mutual agreement here, at home, in this country, we have decided how the linguistic policy in that Statute, which is the Constitution, should be sustained, there is the support of everything we are talking about today, of everything that has developed in the Basque Country, there. Not in movements that matter in their impulse. It is not in political parties' voluntarisms that when it suits them at a political juncture they try to either frankly break that consensus or avoid, without it seeming to break it, that consensus. Here is the strength of the Basque: in consensus, in the Statute of Autonomy, in the Constitution. It denies reality, because it complains of some failure when the treatment of euskera in institutions, in those that comply with that law that we have given ourselves, is the same for the two languages, far above the social reality of the linguistic plant of this country. Because if language policies were to be implemented on the basis of the development of both languages, it would be unthinkable to do what we are doing in language promotion, in promoting use, in legally obliging, as we have all been obliged by consensus, the administrations to comply with the citizens' right to freedom of choice of language, regardless of whether or not the Basque language is known. And we don't just share that, it's that if it hadn't been for the Socialists in '82 that wouldn't have made any progress. And if it hadn't been that way for the socialists in transit here, we wouldn't have gotten where we were. And that's obvious. And it's not that we want the nationalist community to recognize it, it's that what we want is for them not to destroy the consensus on which all the progress we've had is based. Does it seem to you, Mr Isasi, and Mrs Mendizabal, to the PNV, that citizens' rights must be respected? That freedom of choice of language must be respected? Yes or no, is it very simple? Because if they say yes, they must withdraw the transaction they arrived at today. And if they say no, they will show that they have a fundamentalist attitude towards language, based on voluntarism, which is born of wanting to go beyond what citizens' rights and coexistence can allow. And there they won't find us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Eubertarians are the representatives of the team, the Lady of the Great Mountains is yours, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u22	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. In the committee held on Monday, there were quite a number of compelling arguments by the Government which made it absolutely clear the legality of municipal action when drafting the minutes in Basque. Advertising in both languages does not imply at all the obligation to write the minutes in both languages, as explained. There are already conflicting judicial decisions in this regard today, so it cannot be said that these municipal proceedings are illegal. The interpretation of the Euskera Act by this Parliament is contrary to that of the delegate of the Government of Spain. In any case, this Parliament will avoid by legislative means any interpretative doubt with municipal law, as the delegate of the Government of Spain tortically does. In this regard, the articles proposed in this draft municipal law may be considered. Mr Oyarzabal, when you say that the nationalists are instrumentalizing the Basque, if you add Spanish to the word nationalists, we will fully agree with that. And in this same sense, I reply to Mr Reyes, when he says that there are interests in breaking the consensus that we achieve with the Law of the Euskera. Mr Reyes, you know that it is a lie what you have said about the fact that there is no consensus. This very morning I made you a negotiating approach, which you rejected, because you were possibly more comfortable with a more equidistant speech. I would like to recall that the only one who cannot enter the administration is the one who does not know Spanish, article 3 of the Constitution. It's been 36 years since the officialship was accepted, and 29 years since the Constitutional Court gave a famous verdict. According to this sentence the official affects all public authorities, as well as the Administration of the State, and he is obliged to transfer the documents as much as he is a public administration. The people have the right to choose the official language, Mr. Reyes. "Sí, tumos de acuerdo en que hay que respetar los derechos de los Ciudadans." Pregunta contestada. But any of the two languages of administration have a right to any one of the two languages, because they are both officers. The citizen Carlos Urquijo has linguistic rights, but the delegate of the government Carlos Urquijo has obligations. Obligations to respond to the rights of other citizens. Therefore, we recommend to Mr Urquijo, that if he is right, another more productive and coherent task be sought, and to set an example, he can even approach the Basque language. But let the Euskadi municipalities work and carry out the corresponding tasks, without wasting their time in the courts. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Mr. Oyagla, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, I think it's very important to know what we're talking about. So, I'm going to read you a judgment, in relation to the City of Zarautz, I'm going to read you a section of the brochure in the granting of grants from the City of Zarautz. He says: "In the concession, in the oral communications – presenters, lecturers, professionals, monitors, messages of megaphony, radio and music – you will try to use the euskera. In case of use of the two official languages the euskera will be prioritized by placing it before the Castilian and repeating it at least twice as much. "D. The supporting memorandum of the grant shall be drawn up in Basque or in both languages. But so much of the subsidy obtained, the result of the application-baremination of the above-detailed criteria, will be the following: "Policy of conditions. In the case of exclusive use of Castilian 0% subsidy. Where there is a bilingual use in the dissemination of the activity, a maximum of 70 to 80 % of the subsidy. If there is a bilingual use of dissemination and in addition to carrying out the activity, a maximum of between 80 % and 95 % of the subsidy. Now, if the use is exclusive to euskera in all activities of dissemination and activity, 100% subsidy." Hey, this is the joke I was telling you about before. According to the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, "this wording cannot be accepted exclusively in Basque in the relationship with the Administration, nor in the relationship of the City of Zarautz with its citizens, because it raises a relationship not only for the activities to be carried out in Basque, but also violates the rule of confidentiality in the right of the Castilians to know the municipal programming and to attend activities programmed by the City. Because, of course, the City Council does not make any kind of communication in Spanish. The promotion of culture cannot be restricted only to one of the official languages in the territory of the Autonomous Community, without unduly excluding from assistance to the activities subsidized to all neighbours, including those who only know the Spanish language. That means, in the case of the subsidy we talked about earlier," says the court, "it means the violation of the rule of co-officiality, as it involves the exclusion of cultural or social associations that use exclusively Spanish." There are 28 more appeals filed by the delegate of the Government. There are municipalities which, when they submit the minutes, as has been said here, do so only in Basque, in breach of section 8.2 of the Law on the Standardization of the Basque. And says the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, it's not an interpretation of the government delegate. Hey, he says he's breaking the law! And it says the Euskera Normalization Law, which you also want to change. Hey, but change it! But do not allow the law to be violated. Hey, come here and change the laws. He says: "Any statutory provision or official resolution emanating from the public authorities located in the Basque Country Community must be written bilingually for the purpose of official advertising." He said: "Any act involving public authorities located in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, as well as administrative notifications and communications, must be written bilingually, unless private stakeholders expressly choose to use one of the official languages of the Community". That's not the case. Well, of these 28 appeals, there are two sentences that give reason to the government delegate; 25 appeals remain alive, because in the case of the Altzaga City Council has already committed itself to forwarding the minutes in bilingual. There are eight more resources, the eight remaining, and they are by demand, also in eight municipalities run by Bildu, the demand of the Basque woman to receive subsidies. 3 have been resolved in favour of the delegate of the Government, in other cases also the municipalities have receded. And it has been said and refused the will to reach agreements. There are almost as many prerequisites as resources put in place, prerequisites before the city council to look for an agreed solution, but the lords of Bildu are in the campaign and the PNV are playing the game for them. They're campaigning, because they're trying to use euskera again as an instrument of political confrontation, as a bold weapon, as a piece of junk that we have to throw at the head of each other. The other day we were reading, and that seems to me more serious, that Deputy Councillor Bastarika said that the responsibility of the public authorities is to act with prudence, to put out fires. I mean, look somewhere else when they break the law. So, that's what you have to do, according to Bastarrika. What we have to do is look somewhere else, let Bildu's lords make his cape a syllable. And I think we have to tell Mr Bastarika from here, from this House, where we have to defend compliance with the laws, which also emanate from this Basque Parliament, that the primary responsibility of the public authorities, also in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, is to comply with and enforce the laws. Of course, I am now finished, Madam President, I believe that nationalism has proved to be an expert in trying to ensure that its ideology prevails over law enforcement. I, by thinking of Spanish and developing into Spanish, do not lose my Basque status. My grandfather was born in Oiartzun, my grandmother in Azpeitia, my other grandfather in Llodio, my other grandmother in Aramaio, I live in Vitoria, I think and unfold in Spanish, as the majority of Basque society, as the vast majority of Basque society, of those who vote for the People's Party, of those who vote for the Socialist Party, of those who vote for the Basque Nationalist Party and I risk saying of those who vote for Bildu too. The vast majority of Basque society today thinks and unfolds in Spanish. That is why we do not lose our status as Basques and we are not prepared to give up one of our rights simply because you are prepared to impose your approaches on us in an exclusive way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u25	Thank you. When we're done arguing, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed by EH and Eunctians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents are 47; the opponents are 26; the white ones are 0; the abstainments are 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u26	The central correction has been approved. Second point on the subject list: "The same proposition as the Socialists of the Euscals made by the parliamentary bands about the danger-prevention of the Halines River School. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Gallastegui, representative of the Basque Socialists, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u27	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As you already know, juvenile justice exists to provide a specific, specialized and nuanced response to violations of children and adolescents in conflict with criminal law.And there is a very broad consensus that this justice must have its own objectives, different responses from those of adult criminal justice, and a multidisciplinary approach during all stages of the intervention, which respects above all the rights of minors. The regulatory law, which is the Organic Law 5/2000 of 12 January, which regulates, as I say, the criminal liability of minors, articulates the legal regime applicable to persons over the age of 14 and under the age of 18 commenting on offences covered by the Criminal Code and other special criminal laws. And as you also know, to determine your responsibilities, to sanction your conduct and to comply with the measures imposed on you, specific rules, as I say, apply. The prosecution corresponds to differentiated courts and the enforcement of sanctions is attributed to the Autonomous Communities, which must have, and must have, sufficient resources for these different types of measures, endowed with the material conditions and professional means necessary for the function they must fulfil, guaranteeing at all times, as I say, the rights of minors. In Euskadi, the Department of Justice and Administration, through the Directorate of Justice, exercises these powers in the area of juvenile justice, such as the implementation of measures taken by judicial bodies pursuant to this Law on Criminal Responsibility of the Child; the organization, management and management of centres and services for the implementation of these judicial measures; the establishment, direction and coordination, in addition to supervision, of programmes for minors and young persons subject to judicial measures, including management of the execution of judicial measures; the preparation of reports, proposals and appearances before the Prosecutor's Office and other judicial bodies in relation to this situation, including the personal situation of minors. And it is the department's mission to ensure the availability of adequate resources to satisfactorily address the implementation of these measures imposed by juvenile courts, taking into account, as I say, the primary nature of educational intervention, the search for effective reintegration and ensuring the best interests of the child. As I said, in Euskadi, the juvenile justice system is recognized. It is not the jewel of the crown, but it works reasonably well, although, like everything in this life, it is susceptible to improvement, it is improveable. And in this case I am referring to the juvenile offenders and their treatment and the improvement of educational projects in order to design specific intervention plans, aimed at these offenders, that address in a multidisciplinary and more effective way violent attitudes and behaviors. But regardless, ladies and gentlemen, that the causal relationship resulting from the improvement of intervention must lead to a positive change in the attitude of the juvenile offenders and, therefore, in the working conditions of the educational teams, what we are discussing today has a more earthly component, more on track. It seeks substantially to ensure that the Basque Government implements measures to improve these working conditions. Because what has not actually been updated – and I am referring to an in-depth update, a necessary update; something has been done, it is true, but it is not enough, because if not, things would not happen, which are the things that happen that give rise to this type of initiative – is the treatment and fulfillment of those recommendations contained in the own evaluation of the risk system of the Ibayondo centre that was developed in 2009. And that is precisely what this initiative is about today. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a question of ensuring the safety of the workers in the centre. The aim is to ensure the continuous training of the centre's workers. It is a question of ensuring, very important, the psychological supervision of the workers of the centre. Because educational projects of this kind, educational projects in intervention centres with juvenile offenders such as Ibayondo, which accommodates minors who have committed the most serious crimes within the wide range, the implementation of these executive projects requires a high level of specialization, which translates into complicated, very complicated work. We therefore want educators to be empowered, we want teams working at the centre to be empowered, with situations of very high tension, and we want work to be recognized. And we also want to recognize that situations of stress, arising from situations of stress in the centre itself, are described as occupational disease and not as a common disease. The Basque Government has assured that it works with the management of the juvenile centre in Ibayondo and we know that it is true, because it wants to implement all those measures that allow staff to carry out their work with full guarantees of security. And that's what we're asking you to do: do what you say you do. And that is why we have signed this compromise amendment, which I believe will be supported by all the groups and which I thank in advance for their availability and, above all, for their collaborative attitude to improve the initial proposal. And that textually and above all very clearly, so clearly even that it would be avoidable any kind of intervention to explain the transaction to which we have arrived, says: The first point is a declaration of principles which urges, but above all a declaration of principles, the Basque Government to maintain "a policy of juvenile justice aimed at the re-education of juvenile offenders through an educational project that enables them to have real expectations for the future". It is yours, a recognized fundamental principle, and also with an important trajectory, as I say. And then he places duties on him, because, among other things, there are non-legislative proposals, to place duties on the Government and to promote government action. In this regard, the Government is urged "within one month to start implementing those recommendations contained in the assessment of occupational risks, in collaboration with the management of the centre and the professionals", which are very important, "related to the physical protection of workers in the exercise and their executive functions". It should also "develop an integral protocol of action to prevent situations of violence from an educational, health and legal point of view". The one we were talking about multidisciplinary. And "ensure the necessary security measures in the Ibaiondo educational centre and in the rest of the juvenile justice centres, promote the continuous training of staff, encouraging the empowerment of educators, and finalize all protocols for the prevention of occupational risks, with special impact on psychosocial risks". Very important this too. This is an important step forward that has long been requested by the workers of the Ibaiondo Centre: to put in place the necessary measures, ultimately, to establish on a mandatory basis an external psychosocial supervision of the professional educational teams and managers of the Centre. As I say, ladies and gentlemen, there are times when it is good to sign compromises, mainly because I believe that the agreement has substantially improved the initial proposal and the amendments that have been tabled. And I thank you again for your cooperation, your attitude towards the agreement, and I hope that this initiative will indeed be resolved by a majority affirmative vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Ubera, represent the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u29	Good morning, everyone. We're talking today about the center of the Zingazian Rivers. The work of the local employees, of all the workers, but especially the educational, co-ordinated, and professors, is also very hard, singular, and dangerous. Danger in its integral, not just physical risk, but psychological, emotional, etc. We have tried to emphasize these workers, but in general all the workers, even the security. It is a great responsibility for them, for they are working with the minors of a very special profile, whose social condition is intended, although in many cases it is a road full of difficulties, and they fall into the same hole again and again. The Basque Country is therefore clear to the educators in general that the directors, the directors of the Centre, and the directors of education, must relate that a work must be directed, and that the decisions which are made ought to be shared among them, and that they ought not to be taken from one side without counting on the others. And this seems to us essential to the proposal which we have taken in the course of the course of the day, in order to lead the measures to practice. Consequently, we want to emphasise three main goals of the day. One is that the workers, especially those who are educated, require a psychosic vision that will be permanent. That is to say, they need constant protection, because the hardness of their labour requires it. And that can't be given with psychologists at the center, or with department psychologists, but because of their special work, they need an external protection to guard their psychological aspect, emotionally, material conformity to the protocols that are used, sufficientness, real, true support, a long-rangement of education and so on. The second idea and the end, the constant formation. It's essential. And besides the constant formation, the co-ordinationors also are to be attended to by educated men, as is said of young men to do this "acodides," and the measures must be directed and set to work. It must be observed that in this work there are numerous balks for the characters of the work. To give an example, only from the original five coordators, there are now only two co-ordinaters left, and the dance of the educationators is a constant dance at the center. And this must be added to the fact that the conditions of work are getting worse and worse, and that this does not guarantee security, although we know that there has been a further opposition in the security camp. But it seems to us that a constant and essential form is necessary and necessary. Third idea and purpose, following the preventive report of labor charges in 2009. It's the first time I heard a report like that in 2009. We know that some recommendations received in this report, the simplest recommendations, and so on, are beginning to apply, but it's important and important to follow the recommendations they receive to improve the state of the center. And that's what we're asking for in the middle of the day. And all this, as I said before, the directors told about the workers, sharing and sharing them. And we'd like to add a new issue to this, including integrated protocol, material means, localists, and so on. Why do we say this? Well, the local workers tell us about the local workers, the localists are ten years ago, they don't renew and they make endless mistakes. We must, therefore, assign to them whether the materials are suitable, whether they be reassembled, and make all of them work as best adapted as possible by the educational men. In short, what we demand is, to take effective measures in the present day, because what we see is very familiar with the circumstances, and the circumstances which occur, and the events which happen, and which are not to be taken away. And what does that do at last? To increase trouble and not solve problems. Today, with the middle-way that we will accept here, we have a unique opportunity of launching improvements at the center of the River hall, and the workers will be grateful to us for ten years with various claims. And it is to-day that most of the members of this Chamber are glad to be here, and we hope, with a unanimous consent, that they should go beyond their hearing and hearing, and that the Government should be admitted to practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Oyagla, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u31	From the seat. To say that the People's Group will indeed support the compromise amendment presented and signed by the Basque Nationalist and EH Bildu proponent group. We therefore withdraw our amendment, because we agree with the approach, with the objectives, with the substance of the question raised by the Socialist Group. We are convinced of the need to defend a juvenile justice policy aimed at the re-education of juvenile offenders in the best conditions, through educational projects, as stated in this compromise amendment, "to make possible in the best way real future expectations for these young people". Furthermore, a time limit should be set for the Government to take the measures, adjust, implement the recommendations contained in the risk assessment, update the necessary measures and hence ensure the safety measures demanded by professionals. We are concerned and want to express our solidarity with those educators who have suffered aggression in recent months, and we hope that the Government will take action as soon as possible. I believe that it is a matter of doing so as soon as possible, in order to adapt and assume the necessary security protocols in juvenile re-education centres. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u32	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. This PNL, introduced by the Social Party, is the result of a protest from the workers of the Zulines River School. This protest was made in December, due to attacks caused by the college staff. We've reached a middle line with all the groups they've proposed and filed their corrections. First of all, the compromise amendment contains a paragraph of our total amendment which seeks to highlight, although, as Mrs Gallastegui said, it goes without saying, we want to highlight the work carried out so far in the field of juvenile justice policy, the main objective being, as has been shown here, to prevent and reduce infringements committed by minors, and if they occur, to promote their re-education and social reintegration through an educational project which enables them to have real expectations for the future. And so far, as Mr Erkoreka explained almost a year ago, the Councillor for Public Administration and Justice, Mr Erkoreka, is achieving very good results both with regard to the reduction of the measures to be implemented, which have decreased, and to the strengthening of mediation, conciliation and redress processes as a solution to conflicts with minors, as well as with regard to the progressive reduction of an important index, which is that of recidivism: the first plan, from an index close to 30%, was passed in 1998, to be at the end of the third plan below 20%. What we understand is that it places Euskadi at the forefront of the State in the area of the reintegration and resocialisation of juvenile offenders, and we wanted to make this clear and to have the support of this House as well. Of course, as Mrs Gallastegui said, there is room for improvement and that is what we are working on. The second and third points of the transaction refer to the implementation of the measures collected in the assessment of occupational risks and the elaboration of an integral protocol of action to prevent situations of violence from an educational, health and legal point of view. In this respect, first of all, it must be pointed out that we are talking about the only level 1 centre in our Autonomous Community. By the way, making some recent history, a center whose facilities were flown by ETA in February 2001. And in this centre, the only listed level 1 centre in our Community, where the most restrictive and longer-term measures are carried out and which caters precisely to young people who have the greatest conflict. This, of course, entails a number of occupational risks inherent in the position and the situation, which logically also reflect its assessment in these jobs and which I believe we all share that the objective of all must be to try to eliminate or minimize the possibility of such occupational risks. Mrs Gallastegui, despite all the assumptions, it is impossible to avoid all the risks, that you will share with me. Here, too, we would like to express our solidarity and support for the workers who have been assaulted in this centre and in the youth centres of the network. We understand that placement in an educational centre must provide a climate of personal security for all involved, both for professionals and for juvenile offenders. However, you will also share with me that from the data provided by the Department of Justice to Mrs Gallastegui's question, it can be concluded that there is no situation in the Ibaiondo centre that we could consider as insecurity; I repeat, we are talking about a tier 1 listed centre. The original GNP called for an up-to-date occupational risk assessment and the corresponding occupational risk protocol, improving all safety measures by adapting to the new user profiles at the centre. As Mrs Gallastegui rightly said, I believe that the transactional is much more complete and responds better to the problem in this case. In this respect, the representatives of the Socialist Group and EH Bildu have spoken about the 2009 report on occupational risks, and we must point out that in October 2014 a new assessment of the occupational risks of the job of educator in Ibaiondo has been carried out, with its corresponding protocol; that is, together with the assessment of the risks go the measures to avoid risks, so it is part of the same assessment. It should also be mentioned that this evaluation is ongoing. In fact, both the company committee, the risk prevention service of the Basque Government, and the labour inspection are constantly behind this issue. With regard to the deadline in the compromise amendment for implementing the recommendations, the truth does not have much real virtuality from our point of view, because its implementation is already being carried out. Which is fine, but it's already being done. On the other hand, it is clear that the profile of the users served in this centre and in youth centres has changed, as demonstrated in the presentation of the evaluation of the third justice plan, with the emergence of new problems, which I am not going to refer to now, and this should be taken into account in the current elaboration of the fourth juvenile justice plan. This makes it necessary to ensure security measures, to promote continuing training and to take special account of psychosocial risks, as reflected in the compromise amendment. And in this regard and finally, I would like to make a brief review of the actions carried out by the Department of Justice on this issue in recent months. In September 2014, an agreement was signed with the private institution Aita Menni to understand the psychiatric needs of the center and the emergencies. To that date, regular treatment was provided by Osakidetza. Therefore, we see here an adaptation to those new profiles that I mentioned earlier. As a result of the attacks in 2014, there has been an increase in the security staff of the centre, currently in Ibaiondo there are two more security personnel. As I have shown, in October 2014, a new evaluation of the risks of the Riverland educators was made. It cannot, therefore, be said that this aspect of the management of the River-sides has been abandoned. As a result of this continuous dynamic to which I referred, there has already been a modification of the evaluation in October 2014 to meet a requirement of the labour inspection regarding the need for the exits of the educational centre to be carried out with two persons accompanying the minor leaving the centre. A safety working group has also been set up in Ibaiondo to study and agree on the establishment of the necessary measures in this area. Meetings have been held on 25 February and the next meeting will be this March. In addition, staff will be provided with specific self-protection and emotional intelligence training, as reflected in the transactional and ongoing training, through the repetition of a course already held in 2014. There's been an elderly group at the center, and all this is based on a new user-perfil, working the school reorganization. The new plan will join the fourth plan. Therefore, all measures are being put in place to enable staff to carry out their work with full security guarantees. We see that they are facts and not words. The good results to which I referred to the beginning of my intervention are due to the effort and work of the professionals working in these centres, with their logically problematic situation in which they work, and to the policies implemented by the Basque Government. Besterik ez, ezkerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u34	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u35	Thank you, President. Only to say that I will also vote in favour of the transactional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. During the answers, Mrs. Gallastegui.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u37	Thank you, President. If I may from the seat, simply to make a couple of contributions or apostilles to some demonstrations by the representative of the Nationalist Group. Everything that has been done with regard to the implementation and implementation of the measures recommended in that 2009 report is perfect, welcome. But the truth is that there have also been a number of deficits, because in fact the workers complain about it. It is also essentially a matter of active participation in all these measures, of a two-way relationship between the department and the workers themselves in the centre and the organization of the centre itself for the establishment of the measures. And then it seemed to me to understand that you have stated that you have made a collaboration agreement with Aita Menni to attend to psychiatric and emergency situations. Well, that's not what this is about when we're talking about prevention in the sense of psychosocial intervention. What is basically about is a system of health surveillance, exactly the same as what we parliamentarians can have every year with reviews of the type of ophthalmological, general medicine, gynaecological, in short. It is precisely this, in situations of psychosocial risk, to establish a system of health surveillance. This is the final objective of the issue in relation to the treatment of psychosocial risk. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Anybody want to take the word? Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u39	Simply to say that the convention does refer to psychiatric care for inmates in the centre and that it could also, at some point, be extendable to workers. But I think it's an important step in adapting to those new profiles and in terms of the dynamics that the department is taking on. With regard to the health surveillance system, which is the fifth point that has been introduced in the amendment, yes, of course, too. It's already required, in fact the department requires. This is the only centre that has direct management with the Directorate of Justice, the rest, the seven other juvenile justice centres are provided by indirect management and in these centres, the leaflets require psycho-social supervision and, therefore, we think it appropriate that this centre also be established. For our part nothing more, besterik ez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u40	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. End of discussion, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed by Euskal Socialists, EH Collect, and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents are 73; 0; white is 0; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u41	It was unanimously accepted. Third point in theme list: "To discuss these undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "The other proposal as the Julian Corps made about the protection of the Gasteian Mountains. "Mortion, Daniel Maezz Perez EHGGGE, known as the refuge of Gastian Mountains." The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr Marot, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I have always thought that things that come out with a broad consensus have a special value. Here in Euskadi especially, because there are many political sensitivities and, therefore, what is able to add different ways of thinking not only makes this project more durable, but it is also a better project, with more viewpoints and more contrasting. This is exactly what happened at the end of the last parliamentary term. At that time, the Environment Advisor was Mrs. Unzalu and there were many voices, many positions, to achieve a common, shared objective, a specially loved and supported objective in the city of Vitoria, which is that in fact the most suitable figure for the Vitoria Mountains in its protection figure was that of a natural park. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because at the time I assume that the Socialist Party finally had its debate, too, because if not, we would not be here today. Mrs Unzalu, representing the Government, took the position of initiating the PORN, an essential tool for carrying out this decision. The Socialist Party's sum was therefore in this matter. Also the sum of EH Bildu, which have made a repeated manifestation of the need for this figure of protection of the Vitoria Mountains as a natural park. There was the People's Group, which has always defended it, I have also done it as mayor of the city, and it has done so also the Plenary of the City Council of Vitoria on numerous occasions. And, here comes the surprise, there was also the PNV. And I look at Mr Xabier Aguirre, who is serious today, no wonder, because when Mr Xabier Aguirre was a deputy general, what he was saying and what he was shouting were demands from Mr López's government and Councilwoman Unzalu, in shouting, I insist, politically speaking, that the only way to adequately protect the mountains of Vitoria was the declaration of those 11,000 hectares of natural park. That's what the PNV said. The same Xabier Aguirre, the same deputy general, is the one who after being president of the ABB here, has abhorred the conduct of his own in Álava precisely by asking for something like this. Now that's not worth it. And now the Basque Nationalist Party has been left alone. And you have to find out why he's left alone. There are many readings that can be made of that. Normally there are governments where not all counselors have the same weight and, depending on the trust they have placed in them, they have one or the other depending on the area. On many occasions, not only on this occasion, unfortunately, the interests of companies in the industrial portfolio weigh more than the environment. And today we're also going to see him here. This is happening in this Basque Government and, Mr Lehendakari, I believe that we must do that. The Environment Adviser should be no less than the Industry Adviser, in my view. And there has to be a position of your government and the PNV at least as firm as it was when you weren't lehendakari. Because what for the PNV was good for the Vitoria Mountains when you did not govern, what Mr Xabier Aguirre said in this rostrum and also when he was a deputy general, was what we continue to say to others, that the Vitoria Mountains have the best environmental protection figure, which is that of a natural park. Nothing's changed. Well, yes, he's changed one thing. The blessed English-language palabrita has appeared to which I will then refer. At the moment, we are seeing a 180-degree turn in the position of the PNV and the Basque Government in relation to a matter, and I said earlier, that it had brought about virtually unanimity of all, of environmental associations and of environmentalists, and the support of unanimity of the City of Vitoria, we therefore spoke of the municipality of Vitoria, and I had the support I think I remember of Mr Maneiro, of course the Popular Group, of the Socialist Group, who held the representation and who did a good job, of the EH Bildu Group and of his Group, of the Nationalist Group. But the government changes things. And I don't know what's going on with that little English word that changes everything, that everything moves everything and that turns the positions 180 degrees. What will the palabrita have in English? What will that palabrita have so that the PNV decides to pass from considering it essential to catalogue the 11,000 hectares of the Vitoria Mountains as a natural park, saying, as it was said, that it was the most appropriate figure of protection, to now only cover little more than 2,000 hectares? Of course, curiously leaving separate, leaving out that protection to the area where another counselor, another area of government, wants to apply the palabrita in English. Because we are not going to obviate that behind the turn of the PNV position, Mr Urkullu, Mrs Oregi, is fracking. And it also happened with other governments. What does fracking have so that it can change 180 degrees the position of a match like yours? What does fracking have so that, after the mandates of the Plenary of the City Council of Vitoria and of a position widely reproduced by the media in voice of the highest officials of the PNV, who said, in addition to "fracking ez", who said that, now less is heard, they also said "for the Mounts of Vitoria we want the best, we want the maximum protection, we want the protection as a natural park of those 11,000 hectares". What's changed? Well, things that happen in the offices, because I can't explain it to myself, I can't explain what's changed. Because I understand that there is legitimately a different government that has not acquired a position and that has a different position from the previous government. I can understand that your Government has a different position from the previous one, for different reasons, but it is that the PNV when it was sitting here in Parliament and when it had responsibilities in Álava, what I asked for, which was reasonable, because I agree with what Mr Aguirre was asking for, when I was a Member General, is to defend the Victory that I certainly defend, the Victory of Green Capital. Not the Victory of fracking tubes, which is the step we're going to see, if they don't change things soon. And it seems to me essential to understand one issue. First of all, I would also like to make it clear, it seems to me essential that the allegations made by the City of Vitoria in this regard be answered at once. I say this because whoever understands how the municipalities and municipalities work, will have to remember that the City Council of Vitoria has 242,000 inhabitants and that it represents its plenary, the Plenary of the City Council, and that the administrative boards of the south of the city have all our respect, but Vitoria are 242,000 inhabitants, who, legitimately represented by its municipal plenary, have established allegations that do not coincide with the proposal of the Basque Government, nor with that of the PNV. They coincide with the unanimous proposal that we had UPyD, the People's Group, the Socialist Group, then in the government and now also the EH Bildu Group and then, then, yes, the PNV. And those allegations are unanswered and they make it very clear: we keep thinking the same thing, we want the Victoria of the Green Capital, which they all said together, until the PNV broke the deck, that we had to have the Mounts of Vitoria protected with the best figure of protection on its 11,000 hectares, which was the figure of natural park. Well, that's the situation we have, that's the situation. So, surely we can talk about a lot of technical things, a lot of things. And surely I won't be the one to talk about them, there are people who know about the environment a lot more than I do. Among others, Luis Andrés Oribe, the technician of the City Council of Vitoria who is recognized throughout the European Union as the technical manager that Vitoria was named the European green capital in 2012 and who has worked with all governments of all colors. That person, who has the technical credibility of the whole of Europe, apparently does not have the technical credibility of his Government, Mr Urkullu. But it did have the technical credibility of the PNV when it was the opposition. And I'm surprised. I'm curious to know what happened to the PNV in this process. And I also wonder what would have happened to the mountains of Vitoria if we hadn't had around like a fly the little palabrita in English, if it wasn't fracking in the middle, what would have happened. I am convinced that we would have maintained the procedures, the procedures would have been completed and today we would have declared the Montes de Vitoria a natural park, and we would all be proud to have participated in it. Because here, in this will to declare the Vitoria Mountains as a natural park, there is no one ahead of each other, if the strength of this is that we go together, the different political sensibilities, in this we go together. Every time this matter was dealt with, when there was unanimity here too, there was it in the City Hall of Vitoria. And all the parties that had representation there said the same thing. We were at the hands of the technicians, we were at the hands of the leaders of ecological associations, we were at the hands of the whole world. To say together Green Capital is incompatible with fracking, Green Capital is incompatible with leaving half the protection figure of the Vitoria Mountains. But, I insist, I don't know what's going on out there, that the English-language palabrian turns the wills 180 degrees. I don't know what's going on, and I don't know what technical explanation there can be. I would like this matter to be different and that today, Mr Urkullu, the Nationalist Group is going to be left alone in this matter, it must reflect, because it was not alone. And the things in which you work in a restful, consensual way and lay a sufficient foundation to build on it, have a very important value. And you, who also believe that in this I agree, that it is very difficult to build a consensus and it is very easy to dynamite it, in this matter of the Vitoria Mountains had done an extraordinary and surely work, and I will recognize it, without the correct demands of the then deputy general, perhaps we would not have the beginning of that file of the PRN or of the declaration of nature park. Mr. Xabier Agirre did his job well as deputy general. The problem is that he has now changed his speech and it affects the members of the PNV of Álava who carry the opposite of him and who suggest that here, as I suggest today, there is something that changes wills. And I think it's very important to make it clear. I wish it could be today, I wish you could understand that. And I hope that in the field of the environment, which is a sign of identity of the municipality of Vitoria, the unanimity is maintained that for decades, since the time of Mayor José Ángel Cuerda, has remained in the City Hall in order to be an example in Europe in environmental matters. And you have worked hard on this different governments and all the representatives of the different political formations, from those gentlemen there, from Bildu, to you, those, ours, all, and also those who do not have representation in the plenary of the City Hall, who have had it or who do not have it. It is essential to return to the path of common sense. There is also an important issue in politics, and I think you know it. Sometimes things aren't just how they are told, sometimes things are what they seem to be. And my impression, I say in this sense humbly, is that there is a generalized feeling in the city of Vitoria that there is an inexplicable change of position on the part of the PNV in relation to the Vitoria Mountains because there is the fracking in between. I can say it or not, but it is what there is, it is the widespread feeling that there is in many citizens of Vitoria. And you can certainly have this debate about the Vitoria Mountains without using the English word, but on the street it's there. So it seems to me also important from a serene debate to try, if not, to make it meridianly clear. For me, the best way to do this is to recover the path of consensus that has led us to say that we supported the technical teams, nothing more and nothing less than that they managed to put the head of the environment in Europe and take a prize that no country in southern Europe has, and that no city in our country has, that is to be declared the greenest capital in Europe, among other things by the projects that were in the portfolio; among other things also the declaration of natural park of the Vitoria Mountains. I give you an invitation to reflection. In this issue of the Vitoria Mountains, the PNV cannot but head the demonstration to put its head in a hole like the ostrich, only because of the issue of fracking or the suspicion that fracking can influence. If you're skillful, and I know you are, take it out, explain it well, today there's a chance. If I'm not right, I have no problem recognizing it. But of course, they do not have to convince me, but a majority, I insist, important in the city of Vitoria, who considers that behind this matter of the Vitoria Mountains is, I say the last time, that palabrian in English. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u43	Thank you, Mr Marot. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President: Good morning, chief of departments, all members of the legislature. "La bet de EAJ-PNV sobre la extracción's state reserva myrgética es clara: I am explotacion, I am exploacion." These were the words of the Urkullu in the campaign, words drawn from a reflection into his blog. It's as good as the headliner. I will tell you now the second part, these words were perfectly correct as headlines: "franking, I'm exploción, I'm explotacion." But it was true, this headline, like other headlines, had a development and developed it: "si no geneantiza el cummplimiento de la Normiva methiombiental." And this last sentence has a direct connection with today's subject, the shelter of Gastine Mountains. If the Gastian Mountains were called natural park, inside the first two wells of which the Euskooky Enara wants to do, inside permission to make fracinga, they'd be within the natural park. And if it were so, the plan of the natural resources of this natural park would not admit of those wells. So the environmental rule wouldn't admit frackinga, and what Mr. Urkullu said in the campaign would be a complete lie. What's PNV doing in this situation? What's the government doing? Change rules, change rules of the game, modify the rules of the environment. Thus, instead of making Gastei Mountains natural parks and protecting them as a whole, instead of protecting them as $1,000 acres, or naming them as LIC, and then protecting only a small portion of it, 2,000 acres. Of course, leaving the fracking wells outside that shelter. Here's the key for us, and unfortunately for us there's the discussion: the frackinga or not on the Gastine Mountains. We'd like to have a discussion whether it's a natural park or not and why. Unfortunately, it's a discussion whether it's a frackinga or not on the Gastine Mountains. And PNV has made up his mind. PNV has decided to make a frackinga, and for that purpose the nomination of natural park is an obstacle. The Gastian Mountain doesn't just say that the park must be natural or the EH Collectors or the Popular Party or the Social Party. It says that it is a natural park to be named, as the General Assembly of the Arabs say, and it is said by the House of Full Council of Gastei. That is to say, the principal institutions of the Arabs and Gastheizians are called. But besides that, it's also the technical services of the EukMU, not just the Gastian technicians. Even the technical services of Eukong say that the Gastei Mountains must be a natural park. We mustn't forget that in the year 2010 the Environmental Department, and I suppose, following the technical examination inside, he signed an order and this order said: "The area of the Vitoria Mountains is one of the most unique and environmentally interesting areas of Álava and has a great natural potential with a good state of conservation, thus meeting several of the guiding criteria set out in the legislation. In this respect, the document initially approved concludes that of the study and assessment of the territory that covers the area of the Montes de Vitoria", and they were talking about 11,000 hectares, not 2,000 hectares, "as well as of the analysis of the alternatives existing for the inclusion of such space in the network of protected natural spaces, it is estimated that the figure of protection that best suits it is that of the natural park". Eusko Jaurlaritza, 2010. Urtean. The proclamation of natural park is, therefore, not only political, but the proclamation of a political majority, and the designation of natural park is also a technical request from the technical aspect of the environment. And if not, if there were reports that technically negatives in view of the protection of natural resources in 2010, it would be all right to know, and I'd ask him to take out those technical reports and report in this tribal plot today to the Jeltistan Party. But not just to show another technical point of view, but to explain how it failed 2010. this order of the year, and the technical reports behind it. We have, therefore, the parliamentary law, the General assembly of the Arababa, and the Gastian Council for the park of nature. We have an order signed in the year 2010 by starting the nomination of the natural park. What about PNV in front of this technical statement? PNVk fracing and Gasttoria Mountains. PNV in front of all these institutional and technical expressions, Intsumis. But not the general interest of the Insumiso, in order to protect the environment, not, to defend the private economic interests of a few, to defend the instigation in the Gastian Mountains, in order to defend the frackinga. That's why, and for that only, you've abandoned Gastei Mountains to design the natural park to defend the frackinga. And I'd say a few things to prove it, but it's very well recorded in an actata in a public assembly in 2007. This Akta is an assembly made between the two companies of the United States around the franchise, which depends on the Department of Industries and is 100% public. And in it the representative of the American corporation asks if the Heico company has a question, whether there's a environmental problem for the wells inside the permit. And Juan Carlos Viuña, the director of the public firm at that time, says that, according to their data, the only significant problem is that if Montes de Vitoria is named natural park, that's the only problem. Well, eight years later, Mrs. Oregi has eased their work. Mme. Oregi turns into the accomplice of the Friching, and decides not to name the Gastian Mountains in the natural park, to abandon the organized plan of natural resources and to reduce the protection of that site, of course, leaving Enara 1 and Enara out of a protected area of two wells. So we've presented a motive, which has been united to another, like the Pontian Party, and we make two demands very exact. On the one hand, let the Gastine Mountains go on with the tramitation of natural park, and adopt the plan for the organization of natural resources necessary for that purpose. And the second, and it is very important for us to consider the tramitation of that term of natural park, in order to ensure the people that remain within the natural park and their participation. Why? Because it is the figure of natural parks, and not a LIC or CAC, which is the most suitable figure in natural parks to defend the resources of nature, and to combine the social development of nations in that area. That's what a PORN is for, that's why the patricians are there, and that's the most useful figure for us. So, in the second place, if this Parliament accepts the name of Gastei Mountains in the Natural Park, let's hope that the Eucommy won't make revolt again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Rojo, the Basque Socialist, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u46	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. As has already been said here, this initiative responds to the often debated demand to declare the Vitoria Mountains as a natural park. A similar initiative was discussed a few days ago at the General Councils in Álava and it seems that today we will repeat the result of the vote. And although I did not intend to say anything to you, Mr Maroto, it is somewhat surprising that one of the bases of your argument is that you have been very critical of the PNV with the issue of fracking, which I share, but which is surprising coming from the People's Party when precisely the position of your political party is not the one that you have defended today in this rostrum, although I hope from now on we are on the road in the amendments and in the ILP debate in the Basque Parliament. It is another issue on which, as we have all said here, the PNV has changed its mind, where one day it demanded a natural park today of that seems to say nothing. It is important for this House to speak on this matter, so that the Basque Government may change its stated intention many times, although it is true sometimes in one way or another. The department led by Mrs Oregi, present today in this Parliament, has no intention of declaring the Vitoria Mountains a natural park, arguing environmental causes, although we are all clear that a more permissive type of protection would allow other types of farms in the area that a political and citizen majority clearly deny and reject. And, indeed, Mr Maroto, we are talking about the concern we have about the exploitation of fracking in this area. In 2009 the government of Patxi López began the process of declaring the Vitoria Mountains as a natural park. There was an environmental assessment of the area, a public concern and awareness and a clear political position on it. During the same socialist government, the drafting of the natural resources management plan began, seeking the compatibility of agricultural and population activities with the level of protection required by the Vitoria Mountains. It is important to stress that vegetative growth must be preserved and that the maintenance of activities and the fixing of population in local entities must be made possible. This, like many of the decisions taken by this Basque Government, is totally unilateral. In June last year, the Executive announced its intention to close the file without seeking to reach agreements, without giving sustained explanations on environmental criteria and without taking into account anyone except the interests of some companies, objectives, plans or intentions that no one dares to explain very well. And it came to June, after two years of dizziness. Two years of delay in the settlement of the allegations, unnecessarily delaying the administrative record of the natural park. The decision of the Basque Government reduces the natural space that is intended to protect to one sixth. It is a decision, in the view of the Socialists, that has been run over from any point of view. On the one hand, environmental needs are obliterated, protection is not prioritized, but political or business objectives are prioritized. On the other hand, the demands of local entities are neither heard nor met. An opaque attitude is maintained with regard to the decision and what is worse, a political discourse is constructed whose defence criterion is different according to who rules. If the government is led by the Basque Nationalist Party, there is one criterion; if the Basque Government is led by Mr López, there is another. That is, if one governs or is in the, environmental opinion seems to change. In April 2010, when the advisor to the branch was Mrs Unzalu, an amendment was already adopted in this Parliament unanimously, in plenary session, calling for the Monts de Vitoria to be a natural park. One of the reasons that the Basque Nationalist Party had at the time to justify its affirmative vote was the coherence of the political stance held and voted curiously at the Bizkaia General Councils, and also for naturalistic aspects, in the need to protect more than 13,000 hectares. But today, 6 March, it seems that neither coherence nor naturalistic aspects, because they have had to evaporate and it seems that today the PNV decision is another. But to continue with the incoherences I will say. In November 2009, with a socialist mayor in Vitoria, Mr. Lazcoz, the opposition, I say intercomilado because it was textual, asks "to declare the natural park to the mountains of Vitoria". This municipal motion required the action of the Basque Government. And in contrast, on 27 June 2014, the same party voted against an initiative to ask the Basque Government to declare the Montes de Vitoria a natural park with a justification that at least varied: autonomy of the municipalities, the Basque Nationalist Party. Autonomy, as always, where it matters and when it matters. And on August 2, 2014, Councilwoman Oregi justifies the position of the Basque Government, refusing the declaration of a natural park, stating, I say, "we have to pay attention to the people". Unbelievable. But in the face of these two statements, on June 19, 2014, that is, just eight days before the vote to the contrary, the nationalists called for maximum protection for the Vitoria Mountains. That is, it depends on which institution, on which person talks or makes the statements, it seems that the environmental opinion is one or the other. And in July 2011, with the government of Patxi López leading Lakua, the PNV again asked the government for that figure of protection. At that time the problem, the obstacle, was that there was no natural resource management plan, but that difficulty no longer exists today, so there is no excuse. So, what has changed in the area? What has changed in the environmental policy, in the concern, which was once enormous, of the Basque Nationalist Party for the area and which now seems to be all the same? The Basque Nationalist Party proposes to declare the Vitoria Mountains ZEC zone. And it may not be wrong, it is a figure of protection that we all recognise also for other areas of the Basque Autonomous Community, but it seems to us that in this case it is insufficient. We know that 8,000 hectares would remain outside the protection zone. While one protection prohibits certain uses, the other simply invites to avoid. Therefore the defence of the environment, its protection and its values remain at the dawn of the decisions that the government in charge wants to exploit. And when we come to this point, with the positions of some clear, or more or less clear, there is one issue to be touched on, which Mr Maroto has defined as the famous English palabrian, which is, in fact, fracking. The lack of protection that the PNV proposes to us today through its amendment, makes it possible, allows and does not question the development of fracking in this area of deserved protection in Álava. And here I have to admit that Mr Maroto, through his initiative, excludes himself from the decision-making on this matter and makes the balloons out and falls to you, Mrs Oregi, on your roof the subject of saying yes or no to the exploitation of fracking. The need for the protection of natural space must meet objective, natural, environmental and of course political criteria. Therefore, we have a PNV that has changed position again, because it has changed position already for the second time: one, in the natural park and another on the subject of fracking. Mr Urkullu in election campaign says some things and when he governs he says other things. The desire to preserve the mountains of Vitoria comes from afar. More recently, biodiversity conservation is seen as a fundamental concept and is born as a response to progressive deterioration and growing threats. In February 2010, the Socialist Government initiated the procedure by ordering the initiation of a required and requested processing, which at that time seemed to be what we all wanted. But, as in everything, you have to try to get a reading that serves something. If we should point out a lesson in this story, it is that public participation and institutional loyalty is the key to the good end of conservation, being as it is an activity that needs a design to be effective in terms of citizen well-being and not a reason for social confrontation. And also that each institution and sectoral framework must be responsible for its competences. And we are dealing with an amendment, as has already been said here, signed and that we are going to vote for all the members of this House, except the Basque Nationalist Party. They will already explain to me how they will explain to the citizens of that area the change of position, they will already explain to me how they will say they keep telling fracking yes but no. And they'll start explaining what's going on with that ILP by inventing procedures to delay the debate, when in the end the selections are going to fall and the amendments of the Basque Nationalist Party are going to have to be on the table. So, I think they're having a problem again and they're not saying anything about it again. I hope only one thing, that if this House ends up voting on this initiative, as it seems to be, of all except the group that supports the Government, please fulfil the parliamentary mandate and make the Monts de Vitoria a natural park. The Boards have asked this, the City Council has asked it, Parliament has asked it not once, but on several occasions, and that is what the environmental groups are calling for. Therefore, I think it is time to speak clearly, I think it is time that perhaps in the election campaign they were asked and actually heard about the environmental issues as well, and that they finally say what they think about the possibility of developing fracking, yes or no, on the Mounts of Vitoria. Therefore, Mrs Oregi, it is only left for you to declare these Montes natural park, because that is what the social majority here represented demands and they have been left alone. Replant and return to what you were defending until two days ago. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u47	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Alter fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u48	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Lehendakari jauna, sailburuok, legebiltzarkideok, equidi on guztioi. In case we don't know we're on an election campaign, this initiative reminds us of that. It is an initiative presented last June, which is now being activated, nine months later, to coincide with the municipal election campaign. And here we come to talk not about the naturalistic values of the Natural Park of Vitoria, but about fracking, a debate that will actually take place in the coming weeks or months and in which we will see the position of each and particularly that of one of the proponents, the position of the People's Party. Our group's position on this issue in this House has always been the same in the last parliamentary term and in this one. It is that the natural resources management plan is being processed in order to find the most appropriate figure to protect this space. In 2004, the geographical area known as Montes de Vitoria – in addition to Vitoria-Gasteiz, included up to six more municipalities in that territory – said that the Montes de Vitoria were included by decision of the European Commission in the list of sites of Community importance for the formation of the European ecological network Network Natura 2000. The Vitoria Mountains are therefore part of a network of maximum protection at European level. In 2010, the Basque Government adopted the agreement to initiate the procedure for the preparation of the corresponding natural resources management plan, as indicated above, in accordance with the determinations of the Basque Nature Conservation Act. At that time – and this is addressed to some who say what happened, what happened here – the above-mentioned law did not include the protective figures of the spaces included in the above-mentioned Natura 2000 Network. Subsequently, in 2011 the said law was amended and included in it the figures of protection to which I refer at the moment, which did not exist in 2011 and to which Mr Maroto referred. Mr. Maroto says what's changed. What has changed has been the law regulating this matter, the Law of Nature Conservation. A law, by the way, in which some of the groups that specifically propose the motion put us in parsley heat, did not participate in its elaboration and now it seems that it is the balm of Fierabrás to solve the problem of fracking. That's called coherence. In our view, the realization of the most appropriate protection figure for the Vitoria Mountains should be the result of the technical proposals for the protection of this space made within the framework, as I say, of the Nature Conservation Act and of the result also of the participation of public and private agents. And in this regard, I must say that, of the 63 allegations received, 43 asked to give up this initiative. And agreements between all the administrations concerned are also important. On this point we must say that out of the seven municipalities affected six have spoken out against creation as a natural park. And we understand that the choice of the most appropriate figure falls to the Government, after careful analysis of the facts and interests that revolve around this decision. In this decision-making process, the Basque Nature Advisory Council, Naturzaintza, has to intervene, and this Council has already adopted last December the agreement to inform the department favourably of the proposal to declare the Montes de Vitoria as an area of special nature conservation, which is one of the figures provided for in the law for the protection of the Natura 2000 network. Therefore, the Vitoria Mountains are part of a European ecological network that affects the 18 and peak percent of European territory. From a network which, by the way, is being protected quite late and which, according to reports less than ten days ago, the European Commission has issued a letter of emplacement for infringement of the Kingdom of Spain, which would undoubtedly affect the mountains of Vitoria. It should be recalled that this Parliament has already mandated the Government on how to act in this area, because the laws are mandates of Parliament to the Government, and has ordered it to do so in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act. The Government, I insist, by mandate of this Parliament, can choose any of the five figures provided for in the law. With the proposal it is expected to be adopted today in this Parliament, it is not that we move in the line between what is a legislative function and what is an executive function, but clearly the Legislature supplants the Executive. It undermines the classical principle of separation of powers. With the proposal that we are now debating, it is intended that this Parliament, contrary to a previous legal mandate, should replace the Government in its decision-making. A competitive invasion of the legislature is taking place in the Executive. If this Parliament wants to decide on the protection of the Vitoria Mountains, what it has to do is change the law and assign that competence. This Parliament must ask the Government to act in accordance with the law. In this case it is basically the rules derived from the 1992 Habitats Directive and, as I say, from the Basque Nature Conservation Act. And on this we must say that the Basque Government is acting in accordance with the law in the decision-making process for the protection of the Vitoria Mountains. What has been brought here is not so much the concern of some for the defense of the naturalistic values of this area, but its spurious use for other purposes, to speak, for example – not spoken today, but sometimes yes – of Zaballa prison or fracking, long and stretched this very morning. A debate that we will have, as we have said before, in this House in the near future. By the way, many people do not know that within the proposal of the natural park of Vitoria there is the largest landfill of Álava or a dozen urbanizations. Other groups try to avoid their own responsibilities in protecting this area. Thus, for example, the City Council of Gasteiz can establish through its General Plan of Urban Planning a higher protection than that which through this proposal is required of the Government, Mr Maroto. Or the Foral Diputación de Álava can also establish superior protection through the PTS, developing its competence in the field of mountains. That is, from the City Council of Vitoria and General Councils, the others, the Government, are asked to do what one does not want to do. Mr. Maroto, have you tried to ban the use of fracking throughout your municipal term? Modify the general plan and introduce this prohibition. You probably won't dare. That is why the second point of our amendment says that "we urge the Provincial Council of Álava and the municipalities concerned to develop and apply, in the exercise of their territorial planning powers, the determinations proper to urban planning for the protection of the natural values of the Montes de Vitoria area". Some others do not know whether to go up or down, whether to go or come, whether to protect this space as a natural park or through another figure. And I'm talking about what happened in the last legislature. The order of the environmental adviser, in her exhibition, I remind her, literally said, "previously her statement as the category of protected natural space most consistent with the nature that results from the procedure, is to determine the figure that best fits the nature of the space". And this is precisely what we have proposed in our amendment, Mrs Red: that the most suitable figure for the Vitoria Mountains is in line with what results from the Natural Resources Management Plan. Also in the past legislature, Mrs Red, the director of Biodiversity of the former socialist government said publicly that in the area of the Vitoria Mountains there are no natural values that should be protected by the figure of the natural park. He literally said that "the Mounts of Victory are not the Serengeti, Mrs.Red. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that there is an absolute consensus on the need to establish a system for the protection of the naturalistic values of the Vitoria Mountains. However, we differ in what should be the tool, the most appropriate figure to achieve these objectives. Mrs Red, contrary to what you say, we in our amendment do not propose a concrete figure, but rather what we do is refer to what results from the agreements between administrations and the allegations made during the period of preparation of the Natural Resources Management Plan. We understand that it must be through some of the figures of the Natura 2000 network, with the content of what is stated in the Nature Conservation Act, and you claim to declare yourself a natural park. We could fully endorse your amendment if, instead of referring to nature park, it refers, for example, as you mentioned, to a ZEC area. And we also believe that they are wrong, because that decision is not for this Parliament, but for the government. The Government, in promoting the protection of the Vitoria Mountains as a special conservation area, would be acting only in accordance with the parliamentary mandate contained in the Nature Conservation Act. And by the way, Mr Maeztu, the treatment of fracking, whether it is a natural park or a ZEC area, is the same in both cases, so there is no difference, there should be no difference, because it will be through the corresponding plans where permitted and prohibited uses should be regulated. Therefore, it is not a question of the quality of the chosen figure, but of the content of it. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing over to the men's turn, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u50	Thank you, President. We agree with the compromise that has been signed. I shall therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u51	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mr Marot, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u52	Thank you very much. I went out to ask two questions. And they're two pretty simple questions, I'd say they're pretty off the street, see if I can get an answer. I'm going to use Mrs. Red's argument, because it seemed to me that I had it very well assembled. What do people want to think about what the PNV does with the Vitoria Mountains if this has happened? One, when the PNV was in opposition to Mr. Lazcoz, the former mayor, were those who asked in the plenary of the City of Vitoria to choose the figure of protection of maximum rigor, that of natural park, for the Mounts of Vitoria. That was the PNV when he was in opposition to Mr. Lazcoz. When Mr Agirre was a deputy general, he said the same thing, he asked for it in a vehemently way, as he usually characterizes him, and I say that in a positive way. When Mr. Urkullu is lehendakari, the PNV in Vitoria and Álava, because some of the losers continued with what they had told him to do and then kept saying no to the fracking, the Vitoria Mountains, until someone, of course, had to be the party president, said to him "shut up, that no, that we have changed, that you have not heard, shut up". And so, now what happens, in fact, is that the PNV also in Vitoria, which has no autonomy to make its own decisions, what it does is vote against what the majority of Vitoria wants and in favour of leaving the door open to fracking. So, first question. What do you think the people of Vitoria think of you from the PNV? What do you want me to think with all that twist? For what I would think is, besides that the municipal group in the City Hall has no autonomy, that question for me is not new, but in any case what people do discover is "hey, the PNV had told us that it was the ones who protected this, the ones who said they were with Green Capital, and the first of the changes, and I don't know why", maybe some counselor knows, I'm not in those offices, "for no reason, now the PNV tells the Vitoria people to shut up." The bad news is, Vitoria's shut up. And not only do they keep quiet, but they also vote against what they said themselves, what their then deputy general was saying. And now the Vitoria PNV what it does is to say: to the Vitoria Mountains if I have seen you I don't remember, we leave it in the slightest expression, and we leave the door open to fracking. That's very serious, in a game like yours it's very serious. And the second question, this is for Mr Urkullu, although I already know that it does not touch me, I know that the procedure here is different and that I cannot talk to him. But I leave it, in case you can hear it. The second of the questions is the key. Listen, for what the PNV wants, when it likes what comes out in this Parliament, I don't know if it's up to it, but it's up to it, they say "Parliament approved it, I'm going to do it". Then, the question, so simple, so clear. Today the Basque Parliament, by a very large majority, is going to say that it wants for the Vitoria Mountains the maximum figure of protection, which is that of nature park. Mr Urkullu, are you going to accept, yes or no, this mandate from today's plenary session of Parliament? I already know that it is in excess of the Rules of Procedure to ask for a gesture with my head and I cannot do so. But in the absence of gestures and in the absence of words, there is a Spanish saying that the one who is silent gives. And I'm afraid his answer is "I'm sorry, but no, there you stay with the Vitoria Mountains as we want now." And as you want it now, it's like the fracking companies want it. And that, you see what you've achieved, unites us with those gentlemen, with those over there, and with the gentleman who sits up there, that we almost never agree with him and me. Well, it is today. I'd do that reflection. Of course the Victorians are doing it, I'm asked, I'm one more, I guess you too. What happened at the PNV? What happened to the city group? What happened to the former deputy general, the current president of the ABB? What happened to the PNV parliamentary group? What happened to the lehendakari? What's going on in the Basque country with the fracking? But what does fracking have, what does it have to turn wills like that? What's in there? What's wrong with him? What's behind it? What is there to make such an important matter, as green in the positive sense of the word, as environmental, as sustainable, as unanimous as the protection of the natural park, break by unilateral decision? What's in there? What's behind it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u53	Thank you, Mr Marot. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u54	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu anderea. Mr. Aldaiturriaga, I understand the commitment of your role today. What are you going to say today, when you even ran in the previous municipal elections of the City of Gasteiz saying that the Vitoria Mountains should be a natural park, and it is so collected, it said nothing of the Natura 2000 network, nor of being a LIC, a ZEC, figures that already existed then. You said it clearly, nature park. And therefore, they have to catch arguments that either have no basis or are simply false. It is false that six out of seven municipalities opposed the declaration of the natural park. All you have to do is read the allegations. Bernedo City Hall: "This Town Hall considers that the entities concerned, like in this case the council of Oquina, should have participated in the forms of consultation, prior information and limitation of the scope, absence that has resulted in the opposition of this entity to the inclusion of the lands within the scope of the plan". It is not opposed to the natural park, it is opposed to how the Natural Resources Management Plan has been managed without taking them into account. But I'm still reading. City Hall of Elburg: "In fact, it is essential for the operation of the park and the achievement of the objectives expected that the rural population of the areas affected by the declaration and the agro-farm sector themselves feel integrated and committed to the project, without prejudice to their personal or sectoral choices". They don't object to the plan. They ask that they be taken into account. City Hall of Alegria-Dulantzi: "After these observations, we would like to indicate that neither the administrative board of Eguileta nor the City Hall of Alegria-Dulantzi are in principle contrary to the declaration of natural park of the Mounts of Vitoria, although we do consider it necessary to review the points set out here before their definitive creation". And I could keep reading. What the Town Hall of Arraia-Maeztu says, what the Town Hall of Iruña de Oca says, and I think they already know what the Town Hall of Gasteiz says. They do not object to the declaration of nature park. They object to the fact that they have not been taken into account when making the different natural resources management plan. Unfortunately, in this country, natural parks have also been made many times, not counting the peoples or the socio-economic development of the peoples within that natural park, which does not mean that they are against the figure of natural park. And the debate is not what you want, what the legislation says, what is the quality or content of the most appropriate form of protection. It's much simpler, and I'm going to do it following a program that was referenced in my childhood, I understand that for you no, more than anything by age, as was Sesame Barrio. (Map bat erakutsi du) Simply, great, the scope of a great protection, small, the scope you want to protect. In the large area, which is the natural park that you were defending, there are two fracking wells, Enara 1 and 2, owned by SHESA, 100% company of the Basque Government, and are in the large area. And in the little one, they don't protect themselves, they stay out of that protection. Therefore, this is the debate and this is the issue that you are trying to hide. I also asked him a number of questions. If you have in your possession technical reports that contradict the reports that were made in 2010 to sign an order that set in motion the Natural Resources Management Plan of the Natural Park of the Gasteiz Mountains, I ask you. But tell me what was wrong with those technical reports, which said that the best way to protect that area was the nature park figure.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u55	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u56	Thank you again, President. Look, Mr. Aldaiturriaga, it is that with what begins to be the issue of fracking, apart from being opaque, apart from concealing information, apart from dizzying the appearances – that if I go to one commission, that if I go to another, at the end they will finally come – apart from delaying the debate and now we make up some appearances when we don't even talk to those who are going to appear, apart from everything, we can still cheat in solitary. And you come here with technical, legal, legal interventions. That's right, that's all. But this is also ideological. And then, you bring hemerotheque and bring me Mr. Germán Alonso. Well, I'll tell you what Mrs. Unzalu said that day. I do not share, and I think the statements made by Mr Germán Alonso were absolutely unfortunate. I don't know if it's worth it or not. I ask you what you think of the statements made by Mr Xabier Agirre – whom I did not want to name – in the paraninfo of the University of the Basque Country in a political debate in the midst of the electoral campaign of autonomics, when he stayed in the headline of Mr Urkullu: no exploration, no exploitation, point. Mr. Urkullu, the part you added to your blog, Mr. Aguirre deleted in those statements. And he said, "Is that clear? Do I have anything else to add to make it clear?" And what happened after that debate, when the debate was over, those who were there knew. So, I tell you, if you recriminate, as I do Mr Alonso's, what do you think of Mr Aguirre's. And you say, "No, best figure, the figure that is best considered for the protection of the area." Sure, when he rules the PNV. It governs the PNV, then it chooses the PNV government, which will choose the best figure for sure. Now, when Mr López ruled, no, there is the PSE which has no right to choose figure, as we say, that we are the smartest, the PNV, as always. Let's go back to the usual ranch. When I decide and I rule, I command. When others decide, we will leave everything concrete, well married, it will not be that these socialists or others make mistakes. Look, Mr. Aldaiturriaga, you can sell it as you like, as Mr. Maeztu said, big, small, I'm from Sesame Barrio too, but it's just that you're cheating. And the worst is that the time comes to put white on black: yes to the natural park, yes or no? Legitimately defend whatever you want. Yes to the fracking, yes or no? But stop counting movies and come here in a debate of the deaf, in which they come to bring us an intervention that in many things I can share, but that with the law in hand, of course I respect the laws... But they tell us things that you don't believe. And then I tell you, as some ideas evolve, others evolve, and the PNV always does the same, it has some statements in election campaign and other statements when they're managing, and they're trying to set us up. What you don't realize is that we didn't just come here as Martians, is that we are part of the country's political game, and we are in institutions and we are in the media and we are in society, and we talk and we listen, which I think is what you don't do. They talk and talk, and they think they don't even listen to them. And what's worse, they don't listen. They have not listened to the municipalities, they have not listened to the institutions, they have not listened to the mayors, at the time of the PSOE, now of the People's Party. They listen to companies and the interests of companies, as always. Not to mention that fracking, we say again, in Euskadi is in the only autonomous community where public money is put, the only place, which is what differentiates the concern and the social and political movement as opposed to other autonomous communities. It's nothing to do with it, they're trying to sneak out of the debate by talking to us about other things. I do not say that the Basque Nationalist Party does not worry about the environment of the Autonomous Community, it was only missing, but in this case they are cheating, there are the wells that they want to exploit, for which they are giving permission. But they do not come to Parliament, which is the right forum to explain why, with what criteria, in what time frames, how much money it costs, how much it doesn't cost, if you've talked to the people in the area, if you have, if you don't... No, you just look at who rules, who decides and who decides. And indeed, Mr Urkullu, this ends up passing the bill. Because where you put a coma and ended up explaining on your blog, others put an end to it, and that's where the debate ended. And for all political representatives, each at their level of responsibility, it is worth a lot what is said in forums where they are listening to affected collectives. What happens is that it's easier to join the majority collective than to be alone. Because what happened to Mr Txarli Prieto, who was in that paraninfo, with Mr Agirre, happened to me with Mr Car in Villa Suso, who was easier to say one thing than another because there were 200 there who thought against what had to be defended. And that's an irresponsibility and a take of the citizen's hair. And to end the Basque Nationalist Party, five seconds for Mr. Maroto. You ask, Mr. Maroto, what happens to fracking, what moves fracking, how much it costs, what interests there are. I invite you to ask Mr. Soria what moves the fracking. Because fracking isn't just in Euskadi, it's all over Spain. And Mr. Rajoy's government is defending him, fracking is, they're moving laws to defend him. Then you come to us here in the electoral campaign of the mayor of Vitoria, but no one believes that. And if not, we will start the ILP debate and see what the People's Party is doing, because of course they are far from what you claim to be defending. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u57	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Finally, the Eucariats represent the team. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u58	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Well, I think it's perfectly clear, in case someone didn't know, that today we've come to talk about fracking and not about anything else. And today's debate does not correspond to fracking, as I say, will take place in the near future and we will each see its own position on it. It is the public administrations that plan the use of natural resources, ladies and gentlemen. This will be done by drawing up a plan, as we have said, which will apply if any of the protection regimes set out in the law are applicable. That is what the Nature Conservation Act says, and that is what the Basque Government does. That is why, with very good judgment, Mrs Unzalu already warned of this situation in the 2010 Councilwoman's order. And by the way, the allegations to which Mr Maeztu has referred, I do not know how you will see them, but if you look at them, they have two aspects: one, which referred to the time when the procedure was processed, the time of the Socialist Party, with a certain obscurantism, and that is why you asked for more transparency; and the other is that in one way or another what happens is that you are opposed, call it whatever you want, but you are opposed to the processing of the file. And it must also be said that most councils are also against, they have asked to be excluded. Moreover, in the case of Vitoria-Gasteiz, 28 of the 29 councils did not even attend a meeting convened by the City Hall of Gasteiz itself. We believe that in this Parliament we should not indicate to individuals, let alone to other bodies of political representation, such as the councils and municipalities affected by this matter, what is appropriate for them. We should not practice from this House a kind of enlightened despotism, assuming that we were illustrious in this matter, which is very likely. The motto of "everything for the people but without the people" corresponds, ladies and gentlemen, to the eighteenth century, and since then some things have happened in public life. And it gives me the impression that some of you do not care very much about the daily activities of the inhabitants of that part of the territory. Nor do they care about the use of the territory by other administrations. Parodying some character in a well-known movie, some might take the phrase "my, the territory is mine." They call it protection of nature, but in reality they are taking over territory outside the laws governing territorial policy. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, when they do not get what they want, they are dedicated to criticising the tools used by others and thereby increasing the feeling of frustration, helping to do so, if necessary, by measures as democratic as damaging public goods or attacking people representing associations of councils, because this has happened in this case, ladies and gentlemen. To say that the possible impact of fracking can occur regardless of whether it is an area, a protected space, a natural park or an area of special conservation, is exactly the same, do not make any sense, ladies and gentlemen, as I said before. And Mr. Maroto seems to be only concerned about part of the municipal territory, he doesn't care if fracking is allowed outside this area or not. Following this reasoning, Mr Maroto and Mr Maeztu, in order to preserve the territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country from the hypothetical impacts, it would be necessary to declare the entire autonomous territory a natural park, something that would go very much in line with those seditious ecologists who want to turn Euskadi into a kind of Indian reserve. Mrs Red, the truth is that I thought you were going to be more respectful of everything that happened in this matter, but I find myself obliged to remind you that until yesterday at 4:30 p.m. you, your position was not the one that you are going to subscribe to today, it was not the same.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u59	Miss Rojo, please, silence. You've had your turn. Thank you, Mr. Altarball. End of discussion, we'll vote for the Basque populars, EH Collectors, and the middle-direction signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 71; the votes are 72; the supporters are 46; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u60	The central correction has been approved. Forth point on the theme list: "As a group of police officers called Misto-UPyD, to prevent the opening of Donostya's town day and at the end of the prison posters or banners. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u61	Thank you, President. I stand for an initiative to censor, to condemn, to criticise the presence of posters or protarian banners at the beginning and closing of the Day of San Sebastián and so that these facts cannot happen again in the future. This year we have also been able to attend how the presence of relatives of ETA prisoners has been allowed by displaying their photos on the main stage of the Plaza de la Constitución de San Sebastián on the occasion of the big day of the city. This year, too, the iconography of radical and violent abertzalistism has been allowed on the main stage of the San Sebastián Constitution Square on the occasion of the city's day. This year also the municipal government and the mayor of the city have allowed the display of images of prisoners of the terrorist band ETA, as well as the display of a giant banner in favor of the approach of these prisoners to Euskadi in the facade of the municipal library. This year also the Donostiaras have had to endure, we have had to endure the propaganda of violent abertzalism that does not condemn ETA in the Plaza de la Constitución de San Sebastián and its surroundings. We are talking about unacceptable facts. We talk about the prisoners of ETA and the ETA itself, a band that has killed hundreds of people throughout its history, 95 in the city of San Sebastián itself. We cannot, we are not willing to accept year after year the passivity and permissivity of the mayor and the municipal government in the face of these disgusting facts. We therefore call on the Basque Parliament to speak, because these facts also affect the whole of Basque society. For this reason, we have proposed this initiative, in which we propose that the Basque Parliament censor the unacceptable attitude of the municipal government of San Sebastián and the mayor, for having allowed during the celebration of the great day of the city the display of banners and propaganda favorable to the prisoners of ETA, terrorist gang that has killed hundreds of citizens throughout Spain and 95 people in the city of San Sebastián itself. We want this Parliament to urge the municipal government of San Sebastián to prevent such events or similar events in the future, and to urge the rest of Basque institutions and commit itself to defending the memory and dignity of the victims of terrorism. We also want this Parliament to urge the Basque Government and the Department of Security, in the event that the passivity of the San Sebastián City Council is maintained in the withdrawal of symbolism favourable to prisoners of age during the celebration of San Sebastián Day, to intervene to prevent such a symbolism and thus defend the memory of those killed by ETA and the dignity of the victims of terrorism and of democratic society itself. We do not want to put up with these facts again and have to regret it later. We simply do not want it to happen again, we are tired, because year after year the same has happened, especially in the last years and years too. And we're tired of seeing what we see and then just having to regret it. We do not want to be sorry, we want the institutions to act and to prevent events as disgusting as those that reproduce year after year from happening again. And therefore, we also want to address the Basque Government itself, the Department of Security itself, to prevent such events. We want them not to happen again, not to be allowed, not to be prevented. And we obviously want the party to go in peace, that coexistence is guaranteed, that the public space is not occupied with proultarian symbols that offend the majority of society. Let us not be ashamed and disgusted to attend these celebrations or watch them on television. That this show should not occur again, unfortunately and perfectly orchestrated and allowed, when not encouraged, by the municipal government itself. I mean, year after year we have to put up with this. And I think institutions will have to say something, I think it's something that everyone understands. Proteran symbolism at the feasts of San Sebastián. Do we want to stop it or not? Are there a majority of parliamentary groups that want to prevent it, yes or no? I think our initiative is slow and concrete. There are two groups that have not tabled an amendment and I think they will support it. The amendment by the Basque Nationalist Group is as light as it is used to, is that it actually says so little that it is impossible to defend it. It is not enough to say that we criticize the sectarian use of the streets, but that much more needs to be said than that. It must be said that this is not just a sectarian occupation, but a proletarian occupation, and that, therefore, since we have to defend the victims of terrorism and the very dignity of democratic society, we must say that we are committed to preventing these events from happening again. You cannot stand permanently in equidistance, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, you cannot stand in that position. Either it is with democratic society or it is with those who insult democratic society. I would certainly have liked to have been able to reach a broad agreement to say two or three simple things, to say that we are against these facts being repeated and to say and demand both the municipal government and the Basque Government and the Department of Security to get wet and prevent such events from happening again. Indeed, it has not been possible, because the Basque Nationalist Party does not want to agree with UPyD a transactional that could collect these mandates from the different institutions. Of course, I say to you, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, waiting for what you can say, I say to you that many voters of the Basque Nationalist Party, particularly in the city of San Sebastián, will not understand that you are not going to vote in favour of this initiative. But anyway, let's also listen to them see what exactly they're proposing and what they're saying. Although, in any case, the important thing is the facts and not the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Eunus patriots. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u63	Eguerdi on guztioi. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. It is no doubt that, in addition to being a fan of nationalist soflamas, as I was struck by last day, I am a light, Mr Maneiro, totally a light. It is true that it is not always easy to guess what kind of tune it is to be taken in the presence of several undertakings which come to this legislature. As a matter of fact, I'd like to hear the tone of a quadrangle just now. "UPyD has presented us with an initiative on the festivals of Donostania, in the Square of the Constitution in the St. Sebastian last January, while the drums played, because of the banners and the refrains that were seen. We could all see them if they weren't there by any television. But last year, and the other night, when we've gone back to God knows how long, we've seen all those signs that adorn the Constitution on the day of the Donostia's grand festival for years and years. It's just to hit the hemerotera and it's not new fashion. Since the 2012 St. Sebastian, he's been assembled in the town hall, but it's not to be forgotten that for the past 20 years the mayorial mayor of Donostostea has been in the hands of the Social Party, and that all these years we've had the usual paraphernalia of the Plaza of Saint Sebastian. Perhaps it was before Mayor Odon Elorza was known, but I admit I don't remember myself, probably it was. Is it well done because it was the usual thing? Well, we don't think it's right. But Mr. Maniro has since 2009 been a member of the Chamber, and has not only been able to introduce such an enterprise as this today. He has not yet presented himself, either in 2014, or in 2013, or in the 2012, in the mayor and co-operation of Izagire; he did not present himself either at 11 or 10, that is to say, Maneiro, a member of the legislature, or the Socialist Odoorza, was mayor of the City Hall. Agian, berak ekimen hau ezagutzera eman zuenean esan zuen bezalaxe publikoki, textual words of Mr. Maneiro collected from a medium of communication: "Next year we will defend him with our presence in the plenary of the City Hall. Today we take him to Parliament." I don't know if next year will have changed UPyD's defense position, although I don't think it's likely at all, but it does seem clear that UPyD has somehow wanted to start the municipal election campaign in Donostia. I'm not going to say that I've never heard the sound of drums at the Donostania parties on the Plaza, or even that way, I've seen images on television. And it's always been one of the traditional paraphernalia of the patriotic left. But we won't make it new at these heights, will we? Where hasn't it been for eleven years? How did we know the walls of the streets of our villages? How many pints, how many signs has the patriotic left labeled from one end of the Eucharistic for years and years? How many public funds have the euscal councils spent tilizing and washing the patriots on the left, or without a signature? I remember, for many years, in 1995 or in 1996, in the Middle Street of Zumia, there was an old house on the Rue Erberia and was thrown out for a new one. While they were doing it, they surrounded the property with a wooden fence, a large, beautiful fence, a painter, one thought, for the word "amnistia" appeared wide apart, and then the mayor gave the order, just as it seemed to clear all the other parts of the town, to remove it. He took it off, and a couple of days later the word "amnesty" appeared again. Again the mayor gave orders to repaint and remove. And for the third time the word "amnistia" appeared, and thus there was a pretty game at the center of the Zumaian street until 56 times a pint was drawn and the pint was removed. I really don't know who won that game, or those who painted it or took the pint off it, but at least at least there was a great deal of talk about it. And another thing is true, according to what we have seen this year at the Donostia festivals, that it is neither that nor much else that can be done. The patriotism on the left has always invaded the public as if it were his own and his own. The streets of our villages, walls, furniture, blinds, anything, support his political messages. Whether the people are his or the political attitude which states that the people are his own. And clarro, I mentioned the letter of a wounded man on a committee earlier, and today, as I have seen, the march of St. Sebastian gives him a settlement somewhere in the Election of the patriotic pharmaceutalia on his left hand. If there's a Sebastian in the sky, there's only Donostia in the world, that's holy and this town, that's what our Donostia is like, and that's what the patriot on the left uses it to project his scenography from the television. I dare say, I dare say, that it is a dynamic which, when the patriotic left man has once acquired authority, decreases, and paints and billboards are rare in our streets. At least I had that impression in our country and in others. But what happens in Donostian doesn't happen alone in Donostian. Where haven't we seen anything like this? Well, we've seen them everywhere, in the Maddalens, or in the Arena of Bilbo, or I don't know what, at Santio in Bakaku, or at the Odin festivals, and everywhere. The public province is of all men in definition, of all the people, as it is, and we should all be able to accept it. That's the way it is in weeks, and it's so in weeks, and it's the way people are supposed to honor things like that, and it's a bit embarrassing, but it's true that the patriotic left side still doesn't admit that's what's going on. He does not acknowledge this when he hangs his messages at the public house, or at the head of the town council, he does not acknowledge it when he programs his own political enterprises in the public court, and his own. He doesn't acknowledge it to be so, as today, when he handles the whole Donostian Square to throw out a message that belongs to them. It seems to us that it is a non-stemmatic attitude, and beyond esthetics, that it is not ethical that the festivals of the country should be privatized for some. It is a sectarian view of reality, the non-recognition that there are others who think otherwise or, which is even worse, the consideration that those who do not believe what the abertzale left does, that is, occupy public space in a sectarian way, or who do not coincide with the fundamental approaches of the abertzale left, do not really deserve to be overly respected. It is a question of respect, it is a question of political culture. It is not that we consider that today the issue is worse than ever, we believe that it is not worse than in previous years, but we do know that democracy has different components and that one of the main components of democracy is respect for others. And that it is desirable to recognize that the public sphere is everyone's and that, by being everyone's, it is nobody's and that, of course, it cannot be used in a private or abusive way. "Nsostros no vamos a testor la propuesta del señor Maniro, la hemos endendo." We believe that we are not to blame any municipal government, and that our style is not to be charged with any other municipal government that will be to come, and that we do not ask you to use it in a place full of people's throats and drums, because it is dangerous, and that it is a dangerous atmosphere, and we feel that our suggestion ofUPyD is, in general, a very frivolous one. As we place in our correction, we question the sectarian occupation of the public space, which is made by signs, by banners, or whatever it may be. That we condemn the sectarian occupation of those who do not respect the natural democratic race, and who would impose their political views upon all the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mr. Sémper has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u65	Mila esker, andrea president. Egun where you're going. Mr. Lehendakari, Counsellor. Very briefly, because my intention today is primarily to share a reflection in this House and fundamentally also with you. Look, if we make a thought or a raw analysis, I think that everyone, almost everyone at least, could reach a meeting point, and that is that our country, our society has been crushed for too many decades, at least three, and I confine myself to the democratic period, has been crushed by violence. A society continually bombarded by violence, by insults, by aggressions, by disagreements, by private spaces of some that were incompatible with those of others, by festive spaces dyed and stained by the "borroka eta jaia", by festive spaces sealed also to many that not only did not share the "borroka eta jaia", but were not of the rope of those who wanted to extend the "borroka eta jaia". A society in which violence has left one thing fundamentally, and it has been blood, pain, broken families, lost lives. But it has also left a society with a lot of hatred, a society in which there is a lot of distance between many people, a society extraordinarily politicized in the most negative sense of meaning, in which everything, almost every social fact, almost every civic fact has a political label. A society so influenced by politics in its negative sense that we often find it difficult to face reflections from serenity. And the reality is that even the public space, which does not have to have color or must not have color, in any case must allow the manifestation of any color, has been mediated, has been violated, has been absolutely conditioned by the aptitude of the "borroka eta jaia" and all its consequences and all its derivatives. And the reality is also that in that scenario that we have experienced, that sounds so old to us, except to some, that sounds very current to them, the reality is also that not all of us can use public space, even not all of us could alter public space, just as these gentlemen alter it or the environment of the abertzale left. Because while it's true that you can put on any party in any square in Euskadi a sign that puts "Amnesty" or "Gora ETA" or anything else, you can't put "Fabrics and news Manuel González, buy me that I'm the best", because that banner would automatically be removed. A sign of disease is that too, of absence of freedom, of prepotence. Look, it's not about quantifying how many more or how many fewer there are who want to have banners in this particular case on the eve of San Sebastián in the Plaza de la Constitución, because I think it's an account that wouldn't admit a debate. Obviously, the vast majority of the Basque population want to enjoy the holidays without political color and, of course, without tension of any kind, without soufflés and without being bombed with any kind of political message. That's obvious. The question we have to ask ourselves is what kind of society we want to build from now on. We already know who has put pressure on her, we already know who has taken advantage of any civic manifestation, and in this festive case, to try to make politics, also in the worst of its meanings. The question is: will we continue to allow our society to be politicized in the worst of its meanings, that not even the employers' parties of a municipality, in this case of Donostia, can be lived with total absence of that policy that has so much stained and so much strained Basque society? You have also remained anchored in the past, in those forms and in those uses. They have remained very old, very anchored in the past, in this justification machacona and twisting also of the private use, fraudulent from a legal point of view because the City of San Sebastian itself has an ordinance that prevents these things from happening. They have been anchored in that message so old and so expired. They have been deeply anchored in that vision of that confronted Euskadi, in that vision of that politicized Euskadi in ponds. And they either do something now, or time also runs against them. And we don't have to put up with the public space, whether it's at parties or anywhere else, being used tortically, being raped by no one, nor by you. Neither could the Socialist Party, nor UPyD, nor the Basque Nationalist Party, nor the People's Party, and, of course, if anyone can't, who's already fine, it's you. Therefore, in addition to the legal actions that can be undertaken to try to correct these situations, because in the end the rule of law of some tool gives us, and we are the ones who defend the rule of law, with its imperfections, with its need for improvement and improvement and modernization, who can use these tools, there is a political responsibility of first order in everything that has happened in Euskadi over these years and that continues to happen today. It's enough to rape public space, it's enough to strain Basque society, it's enough to use those soffimes to be swallowed by those who don't want to swallow it. If you want in your houses, in the herriko taverns, wherever you want, but in your private spaces. Decorate them as you wish, but let Basque society look forward once and for all to the future with more optimism. They've already crushed us enough with those soffimes and the "borroka eta jaia". Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u66	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Ares has the word that the Basque Socialist represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you today to remember that not many years ago the parties, sporting and cultural events in Euskadi, for the most part and in many cases with absolute impunity, were exploited by the abertzal radicals to make ETA propaganda, to place all kinds of stands or banners that paid tribute or reminded prisoners convicted of terrorism, offending the memory and dignity of the victims. In the holidays, or also in some sporting or cultural events, demonstrations were called, which in many cases ended up destroying the city or people concerned, some of them even illegal calls. I invite you to remember that for many years in Euskadi there were spaces of impunity where the abertzale radicals camped to their wide, public spaces or festive venues where the police did not enter with the excuse that incidents had to be avoided. I invite you also to remember that a large part of the citizenry supported this occupation and instrumentalization of public spaces with the radical abertzales in silence or looking elsewhere, especially when they saw one of their institutional political leaders who did not make any decision, which allowed this to be done. I want us to remember that there were walls of shame, as in Mondragon and many other peoples of Euskadi, where they remained for a very long time with absolute impunity, because they did not withdraw. I want us to remember that in Euskadi there were many people who used and used public services to advocate terrorism, defend their positions or insult the memory and dignity of the victims. And that it took a long time for policies of democratic firmness and zero tolerance to be put in place. Policies that were proven effective in combating ETA with all the instruments of the rule of law and on all fronts. And policies also to from politics combat all those who wanted to use institutions to give protection and justification to terrorist activities. And measures were also put in place so that those who from politics wanted to defend and justify terrorism could not do so and were illegalized. And it should be remembered that some with many institutional responsibilities opposed these measures. They said they were not acceptable from a democratic point of view. Then the European courts not only said that they were acceptable from an ethical and democratic point of view, but that they were absolutely necessary to defend the rule of law and fight terrorism. Then together we were putting in place measures to put an end to the spaces of impunity. We were pushing for police and justice to intervene to prevent public and private spaces from being occupied, and for no festive space to be vetoed from police intervention. It had to be done with caution, with professionalism. But it was made and demonstrated that it was possible to intervene to avoid instrumentalization the use of public spaces. We were reaching agreements with all the administrations, not without reticence – I refer to the hemerotheques – so that all the administrations put in means and resources, largely even financed by the Basque Government, to remove banners, posters, which either violated the law, were advocating terrorism, or propaganda of prisoners convicted of terrorism who offended the memory and dignity of the victims. It was also the time when we put in place measures to take more care of the victims of terrorism and also, I mean, measures to take care of and recognize other victims. It was this policy of democratic firmness and zero tolerance that allowed us to end ETA's terrorist activities and that the world that gave it protection and justification, the radical abertzales, understood that they could only do politics by assuming the rules of play that we had given ourselves. And today we are living a new time, yes, and we all have to congratulate ourselves on the situation we are in, but unfortunately there are still people in Euskadi who are still installed in behaviors of the past. There are still attempts, such as the one we are debating today, and many others in Euskadi, to use parties, sporting and cultural events to raise particular demands, to display ETA posters that offend the memory and dignity of the victims of terrorism. And that's why I've emplaced them to make memories. I have called upon you to remember that we should not abandon the policy of democratic firmness and zero tolerance, to combat that world with all the instruments of the rule of law and all together wherever necessary. Because if something has proved the past, it is that permissiveness, ambiguity, lack of demand, not calling things by name, lack of democratic firmness are not useful to combat these behaviors. And therefore, it is necessary to always keep the guard high, it is necessary to do everything in our power to prevent this from happening. And look, Mrs. Arrizabalaga, the difference between the current mayor of San Sebastián and Mr. Mayor Odón Elorza is that this mayor certainly – I'm sure not, I say it – applauds and is delighted and probably even helps to put those banners on, and Odón Elorza did everything possible to keep them from being put on. Another thing is that they were put in place and that afterwards the means were not adopted to try to avoid it, which also later we were perfecting to avoid it. That is why I wanted to remember, to remind the Government and the lehendakari that they learn from the past, that there are policies that are effective in preventing these things and others that are not, that we must keep the demand and the firmness, put all the means at our disposal to prevent this from happening. Because if you don't, you start by allowing some posters to be put on and then some of them can go back on the road again. And that is why we are going to vote for the UPyD amendment, because it precisely demands that we all commit ourselves not to this, or at least to putting all the means in place so that it does not happen, yes, from proportionality, from efficiency, acting when possible, but also from an indispensable political position. Things are won in society when there are basic and firm criteria, when there are ethical principles that one does not give up defending, when one does not look elsewhere. And that is why I would also like to refer once again to what has not been accepted as an amendment, but to which the spokesman for Batasuna will certainly refer. Because that amendment referred to Basque prisoners. And I have to remind you once again that yes, a large part of them may be Basque prisoners, but they are not in jail for being Basque prisoners. They're in jail for being convicted of terrorist crimes. And also remind him that the prisoners will return home not with slogans, they will return home not by amnesty or collective solutions. They will return home when they accept that they have to go through what is provided for in our current legislation. When you allow those prisoners to do the same as you do. Because you step on the carpet, you are in the institutions because you have accepted the current legality. An existing legality that seems no longer only to encourage, but prevents prisoners from going through it. Therefore, in order to address issues such as those we are dealing with today, it was necessary to make history, to learn from the past, not to make the mistakes that were made and to address those policies that are effective in order to be able to deal with these things with common sense, with professionalism, with firmness, to lead Basque society to also reject these facts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ares. Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr. Maneiro often illustrates what important enterprises are, what not, what primary actions, what importance they are to society, to corruption, to crisis, to idleness, to which he is now obsessed as in this case. He's bringing us a complaint today, because there's been a banner in a town. If you like, a large banner in a great country. But now there will be hundreds of security banners in hundreds of villages. Does that upset you? Do you have the right to have an opinion? Do you resent expressing this opinion, and the rights that protect it? I'm upset about your intelligence. Your anti-democratic nature disturbs me, and the attitude of yours to civil and poetical rights disturbs me. Ekimen hai irakurtzen ari nintzenean lelo bat etortzen zitzaidan burura: "molded walls, as in dictatorship". That seems to be the motto that summarizes this initiative. On that large banner in a large town of Euskal Herria there was a concrete claim: "etxera". A broad claim, felt within this society. A claim that also interferes with the rights of prisoners, which is access to their freedom, which is the right to access freedom. Maneiro seems to want to present it as propaganda favorable to the prisoners of ETA and, therefore, propaganda favorable to ETA and, in addition, a propaganda that humiliates the victims. A position to which Mr Semper points out talking about the tools of the State and to which Mr Ares goes to another galaxy already mixing absolutely anything else. It seems that the interpretation they make of this banner, of this slogan of the banner, would not enter into that criminal type, in those tools that Mr Semper says that the State has been endowed with apologia and exaltation. So what is needed is, in a way, to give this fact the degree of gravity, the degree of scandal enough to be able to suppress it with those tools, with that force, with that violence of the State absolutely disproportionate with which the three political groups these usually answer to absolutely all the problems. Extensive types, expanded types, that of apology or that of exaltation, which seems not to be enough. They justified that so-called hunting of the photographs, of which Mr Ares is boasted the vigilante, that of the stick and tempting, and turn it into a kind of new and renewed hunting of the sign, hunting of the banner or perhaps hunting of the sticker. A dynamic of social tension that we considered outdated, which now seems to be wanting to resurrect. Something logical from the chronic irresponsibility of the proponent, of those who say they will support his position and the contempt they feel for the most basic civil and political rights. I wasn't going to give too much importance to this initiative today, but I've been surprised at the position of EAJ with the position Mrs. Arrivalga brought us, which somehow comes from that Home ofUPyD and makes it goadism. And that's what I'm gonna focus on. Madam Arrivalga, in your amendment, you accuse the occupation of public space by signs or banners, and accuse the occupation of this public space. But I saw that EAJ took over the public space, and I thought it was all right. The EAJ has been behind a karta in some cases which we shared in some silly cases, and which we didn't share in other cases. I think it was the last of January 2014, where we occupied the public space behind a banner with you, and I think you accepted it. I, at least, thought it necessary, and accepted it for itself. Did we suggest a specific political point of view behind this banner? Didn't we respect the natural plurality of society as it appears in your repentance? It's true that all the teams didn't agree with that march. So, what does that mean, that a majority of society cannot place itself behind a banner, to occupy public space? How do you understand the plurality of society? Only when there's agreement? If the agreement is not, then there is no process of this plurality. But if it be agreed, if it be unanimous, then what is the good of proclaiming? How do you know, in this town, that there is not a majority in that town that calls for home? There are many groups which express this opinion of "Home," one of which made a meeting with President Urkullu the other day, and he transferred his claim to that meeting of security. Do you see him wrong? It's all right to cross a meeting, but is it wrong to say it with a banner? Is that perhaps the sectarian? He's been at home in Brussels, and they've hired the "home" proclamation there with its European smiths. And some European commentary has also protected him. Is that a sectarian too? Careful, careful. This is the case with apology and praise to enter the crime under the table. Jonan Fernandez proposes to abolish the crimes of praise and prepology in the law. He says: The fact that "Interpretation limits are so indeterminate weakens the protection threats necessary to the basic right of expressing freedom." In this activity of today, it is precisely this that these refugees, not only fade away, but disappear completely. I think that with this position EAJ, we find ourselves in a contradiction with that point which Jonan Fernandez defied. And not only that, but I think that this amendment directs us very dangerously, we are in some sort liable to fall down a slippery slope, when we interpret what it is that can be done, what it is that can be expressed, what it is that can be thought, and what is not. We wanted to bring in the proclamation itself as repented, that is to say, "the prisoners of Spain" to the house. We couldn't put any more words into that banner because they didn't come in. And that was what was meant to be our exact amendment. The table, it seems, did not seem to have accepted this precise formula, because the manners or customs of the place do not seem to follow it, and it did not seem to admit of this creativity in some way. But it was a good thing to say that "the prisoners of the euscals" in a way of correction. Whether or not we accept the amendment from the desk, we say EH Collectek "the prisoner of Spain" to the house. A great part of this society, we think beyond that part which EHG stands for, because it wills it so. Because it is a right to the prisoner's freedom, and because it is absolutely necessary to restore prisoners to the solution of the consequences of the conflict. Moreover, when all obstacles are laid against this right from Madrid, we think that this proclamation is made more necessary than ever, and we shall certainly continue to see it in our streets. It's the same thing with the banner, it's the same as the sign, it's not the same with the pepathy, it's the same with a new repentance that's allowed in the parliamentary residence, it's all the same if you say it by your mouth: Prisoners of euscals home.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u70	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing on the answering round Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u71	Thank you, President. And thanks also to Mr Ares and Mr Semper for the support they are going to show for this initiative. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist group said that these events have happened repeatedly, that similar events have occurred in recent years. And it's true. And that is why we propose that they be prevented in the future, that they should not be produced again. And it is true that we have not proposed it on other occasions, although on the other hand Mr Arzuaga accuses us of being obsessed with these issues. No, we have not proposed it in these six years, and we should certainly have proposed it, but it is that parliamentary work accumulates and we do not come to everything. But of course after so many years of supporting so many insulting banners to the whole citizenry, I think that sooner or later this initiative or such an initiative had to be presented and that is what we have done. To defend the dignity of society, to defend the victims of terrorism, because we are tired, also his militants, also his voters of the Basque Nationalist Party, tired of having to endure that proteratic symbolism. We are not obviously talking about freedom of expression, but we are talking about banners that insult society, banners that claim a terrorist gang. And this is absolutely unacceptable. The spokesman for the Nationalist Group says yes, that these events are happening and that they have actually been happening at different parties, in Renteria, etc., places where, by the way, a server cannot lately come and some of those around here have simply never been able to come. But we are not prepared for this to be regarded as something normal, as part of the landscape, and I think that we must always go a little further in defending citizen freedom, and this proposal goes in that direction. That we do not admit as normal facts that are not normal, but that what they represent is an unacceptable insult to democratic society. I don't want to talk about the bad guys, I want to talk about the good guys especially. Gandhi said, "Don't take the evil of the bad, I'm terrified of the indifference of the good." And I do not admit, I cannot admit, I cannot understand that we are not all together in defending these issues. We can't look elsewhere, we can't accept what's not normal as normal. That is why I insist, and I appeal to the Basque Nationalist Party and Mr Lehendakari, that you also get to work and prevent these events from happening again. The nationalist spokesman said we're nobody. I believe it concerns us all, and here is represented the popular will. What's this about us being nobody? We are the representatives of the citizens. We are not talking about a municipal issue, we are not asking the City of San Sebastián to carry out certain municipal decisions. It is absolutely fundamental, which is the defence of human rights and the dignity of society itself. And I think that this Parliament can not only, but that it must tell the City of San Sebastian, it must tell the mayor, that this cannot be allowed and that it has to prevent it, not only does it not have to facilitate it, but it has to prevent it. And I believe that the Basque Government and the Department of Security also have to get to work so that these facts cannot happen again. We are not talking about the fact that democratic political ideas cannot be expressed, but that violent expressions are persecuted and prevented. This is what we are talking about, to prevent the proetarian symbolism from being able to camp in its width in the different streets and squares of Euskadi, of this. Can you imagine the presence of photos of rapists on the Basque streets? Do you imagine swastikas in the streets, in the squares of Euskadi? It would be absolutely unacceptable, unacceptable, could not be accepted for a second and should be deleted. This is what we are proposing. We therefore call on the Nationalist Group to vote in favour of this initiative and on the lehendakari to demand it as well. Anyway, the spokesman of the thing talks about freedom of expression. Freedom of expression now means claiming a terrorist gang that has killed hundreds of people and 95 people in the city of San Sebastián. This is not freedom of expression, this is insulting the victims of terrorism and society as a whole. You who do not allow freedom of expression, who for decades have not allowed freedom of expression, do you intend to teach us lessons for the rest of freedom of expression? You? Shall we do the test? Do we put a banner that day or that night in the city of San Sebastián or in that same square that said something like "live the Civil Guard," to see what exactly would happen? It wouldn't last 15 minutes. The mayor himself, the city itself would suppress it. And that is a democratic institution that has given everything to defend freedom in Euskadi. That's the reality. That's what you mean by freedom of expression. You don't know what freedom of expression is. We cannot admit that you see as normal that you continue to put on pro-etera banners, defending the activity of ETA, this is what we are criticizing. And of course we do not see any normal way that the Basque Nationalist Party, again, Mr Lehendakari, should remain equidistant.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u72	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u73	I hope we do not have to present more initiatives of this kind, I hope we do not have to present them, but it is still necessary today, in 2015, to present such initiatives. Move, stop being permanently on the sidelines, accompany democratic society and the victims of terrorism, Mr Lehendakari. Vote in favour of this initiative, a decent, necessary initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u74	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Arriganaga, the Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u75	Well, I've probably come with too many papers, because I've heard things worth answering, which I don't know if I'll be able to answer properly. Mr Ares has come to make us a self-claim of his policy, that policy that he always called democratic firmness while he was an Interior Councillor, was appointed in 2009 and it is true that in the Sansebastians of 2009 he was not yet an Interior Councillor. It is also true that speaking of Donosti, for 20 years, that there are not three, four, seven, eleven, but 20 years, it was the Socialist Party that ruled the City Hall of San Sebastian. It is true that going to the hemerotheque today is easy, you take the Internet and you get lots of tickets, of course I will not make reference to all, but in 2009, when Mr.Ares was not yet a counselor, El País said: "In the numbered balconies of the square were usual flags and vindictive banners of the left abertzale, although with less presence than on other occasions", 2009. "The one in Palestine looked at number 72, an anagram of ETA several meters long hung under 114, in addition to drums and some spontaneous relatives of prisoners", blah, blah. That's the year 2009. In 2010, Mr Ares was an interior adviser. And there are a few words from Rubén Múgica, son of the leader of the PSE Fernando Múgica murdered, indeed victim and, therefore, especially sensitive, I suppose, with all these issues logically, that he came to say in this regard: "Múgica maintained that what has happened is proof that the City Council that President Odón Elorza follows a panicked policy." This was the Town Hall of the PSOE of Donosti, and the Socialist Party ruled and Mr Ares was a counselor in Lakua. Indeed, he said that the difference between Odon Elorza and all the others, which seems that while allowing or allowing this to happen, the difference between Odon Elorza was that he did everything possible to avoid it. I am not going to enter into that disquisition, I do not know what Mr. Odon Elorza's actions were. What I know is what I've seen in the streets of Donosti, what I've read in the hemerotheque. And not only was Odón Elorza, who remains an important position within the Socialist Party, but Denis Itxaso was in that City Hall, who is a candidate for the Gipuzkoa Diputation, or was Mr Gasco himself, if I am not mistaken, who is a candidate for Donosti. About the left patriot. I think you're absolutely wrong about us in your planning. We've never played it from the dangerous line of apology at any moment. What we have said is that the patriotic left hand, not only today, but in all its history, has had a tendency to interpret, that it is the people itself, and that it constitutes the people alone. That's the definition of being a sectarian. You asked me over and over what the sectarian is. That's sectarian. Zure esaldi bat boredom: "A complaint felt by this society". It may or may not be. In any case, it will hardly be anything any claim felt by the whole of a society, will be felt by a minority, majority, in any case important, of a society, because we are all, and I speak of any claim. But taking the part of yourself for the whole, that, exactly that answers the question that Mr. Arzuaga was asking of what it is to be sectarian. That's it. We didn't go on the subject of apologia, what's going on. If we still have in mind the controversies that have been created in the City Hall of Donosti when Bildu is in power. In Donosti there is an ordinance, as in many places, that they say you can't hang posters or banners, either in favor of the prisoners or in favor of the chorizos of not knowing what butchery, as Mr Semper has said. It can't be put and point. What about Bildu? What about the left abertzale? For it happens that it is very permissive with the need of the abertzale left itself to express its freedom of expression – worth redundancy – throughout the old part of Donosti and, however, goes and goes opening sanctioning files in application of this ordinance to others. Who are others? Caritas. Another, Atzegi. And Caritas and Atzegi, and more, entities and people have been unsure whether in the end fined, given the scandal that was organized, but of course placed in the eye of application of that sanctioning ordinance, while at the same time and throughout the whole time the old part of Donosti is full of freedom of expression. Whose? From the left abertzale. That's sectarianism, and we're not talking about apology at all. We are talking about respect and simply seeing reality, in the part that we like, but not only in the part that we like, but also the one that we do not like or that is not indifferent. And we are basically talking about respect and not using public space to impose messages that will be shared by some, but that hardly, not to mention scratching the absolute impossible, will be shared by all. That's being a sectarian. And the double measuring rods end up boring. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u77	If you will allow me, Mr Arzuaga, we will go a little further into the debate on freedom of expression. That phrase you were clinging to, "mute walls, like dictatorship," to defend that these manifestations are manifestations of freedom of expression. I'm gonna start by asking a question. If you at your private home found, tomorrow after tomorrow, week after week painted, for example, in which you put "Arzuaga, the next one on the list", "Arzuaga" with a point of view, "Arzuaga, we will kill you", "Arzuaga, out of Euskadi", "Arzuaga, assassin", continuously for years, did you seem like an exercise of freedom of expression? Well, look, no, it's a fascist act. Oh, no? It doesn't seem like a fascist act that anyone could paint at the door of his house "Arzuaga, we're going to kill you." It wouldn't seem like a fascist act to you. That is the real problem we have in this country, how we calibrate each other, or what we interpret, what political content we give each other to freedom of expression. Look, modern societies, democratic societies are plural societies, which articulate the coexistence of that plurality, of people who think differently, possessing rules of coexistence, of what things can be done, what things cannot be done, what things are punishable, what things are not. They order the manifestations of that plurality so that everyone can freely manifest that plurality, and it is not the law of the strongest or the law of the most beast. In Euskadi for too many years, for too many decades the law of the most beast has prevailed, the one who is willing to unravel one shot in the back of the head to another for thinking in a different way. The law of the most beast has prevailed, consisting of those who believed that the holidays were suitable places for political demonstrations, and the opposing one was assaulted, beaten, stoned, or, in any case, made life impossible for him. The law of the most beast, unfortunately, in a state of modern law, such as ours, and a modern land, in the middle of the 21st century then, today, XXI, has reigned the law of the most beast, protected and defended and politically justified by these gentlemen, to whom would open a debate whether "Arzuaga, killer" or "Borja Semper, killer" at the door of his house is freedom of expression or not. This is the fundamental basis on which we have to build coexistence in the future: to understand that there are things that are not tolerable, that are not acceptable, that threaten someone because they think differently, that to paint it, to use a public space for a particular political claim, is not acceptable, because it involves violating, it involves violating coexistence, it involves patrimonializing in a crude and intolerable way what is of everyone, the public square, the space in which we all have to have the same freedom in order to be able to manifest ourselves, within the order, within the rules of coexistence that we have endowed ourselves with. And those rules of cohabitation don't apply to you, they don't matter. The Town Hall of San Sebastián itself – they have remembered it before, I will also remind it a little before – has a tool of coexistence, which is an ordinance, which says how the donostiaras or in that city what is tolerated and not. And you pass it through the arch of triumph, as many other things have happened over these decades. Therefore, knowing this, the question we have to ask ourselves is: are we willing to continue to tolerate this systematic violation of the rules of coexistence that we have endowed ourselves with? I'm absolutely convinced not to. Let us not throw our burdens at each other, let us not do it, for they fatten those who do not believe in the rules of coexistence of those we have endowed ourselves with. In the past we acted in different ways and probably some were more wrong and others were more right, no matter what. I believe that we are now to build, we defend that we are now to build an infinitely different Euskadi better than the Euskadi of two days ago. Whether these gentlemen want to unite or not, it will depend on them, but we do not live looking back at them to see what they do or do not stop doing. Let us impose the rules of which we have been endowed, which are rules of democratic coexistence, rules of which we do not have to be ashamed, but which we have to strengthen. We can only overcome that shameless Euskadi in which murder and insult and paints and banners were accepted almost naturally, if the others are willing to build that Euskadi. These gentlemen will join or not, but it will depend on them, it will depend exclusively on them. Trying to make us flexible, to make those rules more flexible, tossing our heads together, will do us no good. And what is intolerable is that today, in 2015, you remain in the zule, in the trench and do not see that Euskadi has changed, and not precisely thanks to you and not for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists represent the team, Mr. Ares, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Arrizabalaga, I have not made history to censor anyone, I have made history, and I have said it, so that we learn from the past, so that we do not make the mistakes we made in the past, it is true that some more than others. So that we understand that the way to combat incivic behaviors, instrumentalization and use of parties, public spaces, is to do so by defending positions of democratic firmness, deep ethical and democratic values. To abandon the idea that there is no intervention in order not to create problems. When it comes to intervention, we must act with caution, when we can, with rigour, with professional judgement, but we must intervene. And for a long time, and you know it like me, he wouldn't intervene. And that made it afoot for those lords and their people to camp wide. And that is why your amendment is not worth, for example. Because it's not worth just censoring. We must commit ourselves, we must make the decision that one opposes the front of rejection and repulse. Moreover, it undertakes to take action in all institutions where it is governed or where one is represented to prevent that from happening. It is what I place you and your group and the Government, to take measures whenever possible, but to take them, to prevent the instrumentalization and use of public spaces from continuing to be done by those who have always wanted to do so. Because, look, not only were there posters claiming "prisoners at home." There were posters and banners with pictures of prisoners. And that, this parliamentarian does not say, justice has said, is to pay tribute or claim to the terrorist prisoners of ETA. And whoever has the responsibility to ensure that the memory and dignity of the victims are not offended, must act. And you made reference to the fact that when I was not a counselor there were also banners, and you also quoted an express, a banner that advocated terrorism and ETA. Well, do you know who had to make decisions so that that wouldn't happen? The Department of the Interior, with all the means at its disposal. It is true that, if necessary, with the collaboration of the City Council, but it is not the City Council alone that ensures the law, so that the dignity and memory of the victims are not offended, so that the law is complied with. It's the Interior Department, the Basque Government. I have not claimed my trajectory, because you have not made any reference to it, but since you mentioned it, look, what happened when I was a counselor is that all the owners of balconies in that square where the drum was held received a note telling them that we made them responsible for putting banners that could offend the victims of terrorism or violate the law. And that is a way of acting that was not done before and that I demand that it be done, because it is the way to do it with prudence. As well as many other measures, take measures, for example, so that prisoners with their photos do not appear at parties, because that is everyone's responsibility. And look Odón Elorza, Denis Itxaso, Susana Corcuera were in the City Hall and I know very well what they were doing: trying to remove all the banners, all the posters with the media that the City Hall had at its disposal. So, we all know what we're doing. And I also remind you that, for example, when I was a counselor, on two occasions at Bilbao parties, banners were removed, they were made at the most appropriate time and there were practically no incidents. The problem is that we must abandon the policy of permissibility, of letting go, with the excuse of not creating incidents. It must be done when possible and the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that there are no incidents, but it must be done, the will must be taken, the courage must be taken to do so. Mr. Arzuaga, look, the problem is not mute walls. The problem is clean walls, so as not to offend the memory and dignity of the victims of terrorism. And don't cheat on me. In the drum of San Sebastián not only were there posters or banners claiming "prisoners at home", no, there were posters, banners with photos of terrorist prisoners, condemned for terrorism. And you know as well as I that justice has already said that that can't be done at Bilbao parties or in the streets and public spaces. And therefore, there was also a violation of the law there. And look, you can still be installed in that slogan campaign, you can, but I beg you not to give me lessons. Because look, what differentiates us from many of you and many others, including me, is that when ETA killed, when ETA committed attacks, we went out to the streets to show our rejection and our revulsion, to claim democracy, freedom and peace, and in some cases, even with some of you, there were others who shouted "ETA kill them." And unfortunately after that there were times when ETA killed some of those who were in front of it. So, don't give me lessons. I respect you, but no lessons, absolutely no. And if you and your group want to be consistent, I repeat, you who are so comfortable treading carpets, because you have accepted the legality to make politics, allow, encourage the prisoners to do the same as you, so that you can take advantage of the rules of play that we have given ourselves, shorten your penalties and effectively be able to return home as soon as possible. With effective policies we can understand each other, with demagogy not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u80	Thank you. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u81	As you like, Mr Ares, "there were pictures of prisoners", with that attitude of Torquemada 2.0, anathema to the pictures of prisoners, so that you can have them act, so that you can threaten the neighbors, so that you ask for more violence, yours. In this debate terms are being heard, "it is insulting", "democratic conscience", "dignity", "unacceptable expressions"... Well, it corresponds to the sphere of the questionable, the political. But immediately from there you jump and talk about "proteran symbolism," "claiming a terrorist organization," "Arzuaga, we're going to kill you." Do we not distinguish what is political debate from what is criminal activity? Don't we distinguish him, Mr. Semper? On the banner that Mr. Maneiro brings us today he put "etxera". And I always see myself in the obligation to focus the debate, because it seems that you do not see the difference, you start, you move through this slippery slope and you do not know where to stop. And we start with the verbal excess and it ends with the factual excess, as Mr Ares shows us well. They seem to have discovered this claim because there was a big banner in Donostia. It seems that those who put it have fulfilled their objective, at least part of their objective, which was to be able to express, that it was to be able to communicate that situation. What's the problem? That the banner looked a lot? What made him so special, that he was in Donostia? That there wasn't an approach, a possible or impossible travel of a television camera and that then it would appear on television? What's the problem, which had a lot of impact? It seems that those who put it must be right, because it has had an impact and they have fulfilled their communicative objective. Lady Arriegaga, you say that it is only in a way to proclaim what is common to all. For what purpose should it be proclaimed, if it be of all men? There will always be proclamations, or perhaps that of a part or perhaps of a majority or perhaps a minority. The other day we had a discussion at the Organizational Committee and you said you fought hotly against the Gipulia Mod and the nicest Town of Donostia. But that's where we were arguing about the word "Euscal Country" on some panels, and you said it was okay to show the Basque People on those panels. It seems this time that your passion for opposition is somehow overcome, that you have introduced it in some way, but it is with a problem, and that you do it above the civil and political liberties of the community. The passion of the occasion is preferred to that security or security of the rights and liberties. I think it's hard to do it like that. But when we're asking for trouble, who says, who decides what panel, what sign, what sign is acceptable and what isn't? Who's going to take it? Who's gonna decide if a sucker's a cult or not? Who's gonna balance that? You? You? You? (Points to different sides) (Berboves)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u82	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u83	I'll accept them all because they're protected under the freedom of the statement. And I will not allow it to be here, in some measure, to form a constitutional tribunal of this kind, perhaps you will be allowed to say what is accepted and what is not admitted to be the President of it. I will not admit, as I said before, what cases such a Torquemada, those who say, are accepted and what is not. And with what criteria? The Stoics, the ethical, the political, the legal? What is it, a ordinance matter? Well, then I suppose the discussion would be at the City Hall of Donostea, right? But it comes here. What is it that the state may need other tools to deal with? To reopen the crimes of training or apology? That was the risk of what I said to you, Mrs. Arrivalga. In a way, I understand that you do not understand it, activism, militancy, work or political struggle, the people who claim it, the politicized society in the best of meanings, in the best of terms, but not only of the abertzale left, but in general, that is the model that we promote, because we believe that this is the model that is less suitable for you. That these demands, that this policy, that conflict in society, be transferred through the right and freedom of expression. That's why I end up like I started. There are mute walls, as in the dictatorship. And in the face of this situation, Euskal Herria Bilduk exaten du: "euskal presoak, etxera".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u84	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. The original text of another proposal, like the Misto-UPyD team, is to put an end to the discussion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; 26; the opponents are 47; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u85	The original text was not accepted. We'll next vote for the full-correction of the contractors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72; the opposites 27; the contrary, 20; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 26th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u86	So it's accepted. I'll make a suggestion to continue. Does anybody have anything to say? No. Five point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the EHGG of the Belsen Rockores, to the draft of the royal decree on the deposit of the union and corporations of the Jewish institutions. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Arrido, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u87	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. Welcome to the representatives of ELA and LA and LAB union, this discussion of your proposal, which is what we're going to discuss today. It's the result of the interpenetration made to the president, and he gets literally the words from the ELA and LA and LAB unions that demanded from the parliamentary Act on November 28, and at the moment of which those unions were sent to all the groups. In the meantime, it must be said that we've had the appearance of these two unions at the Enplegu Committee. It was obvious at the board that most of the members of the legislature don't like this discussion, that it's already over, and that it's already cleared up for you, at least at the committee you said it; that is to say, in what Confebask wanted, and that you believe in the terms and terms they had prescribed, you want to forget. But reality sometimes sets itself above the wills, and if anything is clear in this case, it is as follows: If there's a Confebask document, it exists and the explanations given are not enough at all. I'll do a little review to tell you the story. I know that you know some people, and yet I don't know whether you believe them or not, that's why I see it necessary to make stew. In November, 2014, we learned that the Spanish Government presented a draft of the reform of the royal decree on the register of union and corporations. The unional institutions, the patricians, and the autonomical governments had a chance of approximation. In this procedure we recognized a document from Confebask, which was directed to CEOE, and in which was described the commission of the king's decree. A couple of days later, LA and ELA unions reported it. I won't read all that was said in Confebask's document. Of course, we all know him, he's in this whole meeting, and of course he's also at the committee. But I will say what may result from what has been explained in those appreciative propositions. All the options open for unions to be excluded from the unions of unions, to eliminate unions from the record of union unions, to lose their character. ELA and LAB are mentioned in this document, and others may be in danger too. And this is a serious, serious thing for us, and cannot be treated like a secondary subject. Confebask has denied that the document is his, but he hasn't given the ID of the applications he's introduced to, and he says he doesn't know it either, and that's still much more troubling for us. And if there's more to it, when the subject was in the pot, Mr. Aburto, the former chief physician of the Society and Society, seems still more serious to us that we have called the Table of Society for the Society. Without any change, and indeed with the participation of the Confebask, knowing that ELA and LAB, who have the greatest part of the syndicate, would not part, one on the other, and that the demand to be excluded would not be solved. For as it is now, so it follows without explanation. In order to help the Society Tables to justify the face of Confebaski, with the intention of depriving the matter of importance and anxiety, he fired a note in that document, which bore the name of Confebask, signifying that it did not agree with what was said. And with that, the subject has been tried for an end. Once again, I want to remember that at the table called social conversation there is hardly 30 percent of the workers' representatives represented there. On the other hand, in the unions of the present elections, which appear today in the press, the unions which are outside the table, the unions with the vast majority, are becoming strengthened. It is very significant, on this side, not only to see general facts, but also to see the results which present themselves in enterprises, both in public and in private. The workers are getting more and more clear, and I take advantage of that reality, Mr. Tognatai, to have it here, we think it ought to be taken notice of. And what matters is that the chief physician should seriously think of what the conversation should be about. If it is to defend its own scope, to put the relationships in another direction, to face the attacks, to stop what the form of work has brought, or to prevent the preparation, which will be opposed to the conversation? Nobody. We said it yesterday. But this is not reality, unfortunately, but the pattern of Spain is the repetition of what is offered us or what you have given us, and we know what it has been worth and what it is now. Confebask is very comfortable in this model, no doubt. But at least we do not wish this example; we do not see that any progress can be derived from it in our own country. It's not just that, at the Confebaska board and the National Society Board, he's refused to come again. It was easy for him to come, to give his opinion, to explain his accounts he had sent, and to make it all clear. He has not done so, and his behavior, we accuse him clearly of this conduct. And we denounce the contemptuous attitude of this legislature. The reasons for refusing are significant too. They say they said what they had to say at the social interview table. That the document is confidential, that some of them refuse to come to the legislature to avoid the controversy we want to create and maintain. On the contrary, we think that he has lost the opportunity to recover his credibility, to talk and make it known with transparency. And he didn't. As the unions said in the presentation of the committee, the daily attitude of Confebask is convincing. And in front of all this, it's just a matter of particular concern. How it is possible to make a secondary subject in such a situation, as I have said before, nothing more than indifference. He says he doesn't know the report sent to CEO because Confebask doesn't know him, and that's not a problem for him. We've also met with the draft of the king's proclamation, and we can say that he doesn't mention the deep changes proposed in the royal decree, and we don't know the reason or the reason why, we can't appreciate it. We're not at the position we're in, and that's why we're not at the position of being locked up. We do not think that all things are solved, and therefore we have brought to the full meeting what ELA and LAB have proposed, because we believe that the legislature is to discuss this place and make up its own decisions. This week more than 400 companies have supported the proposal, and it has clearly been stated that it has been a serious attack against syndicate freedom and has been protected by unions. We believe that there can be no less in the legislature than that, that it cannot be out of this reality at all, otherwise we will continue to look the other way before real problems. And that's why we've brought the proposals proposed by the two unions, where two points are collected. The first, the engagement of the legislation of Euscal, for the union freedom, for the fundamental right of union, which is one of the principal characters which define a democratic society. This liberty is understood in a vast manner, including the liberty of choosing by liberty the means of defending the interests of the unions. And the second, the Basque parliament disapproves of the intention of Confebask, by introducing in the royal decree a procedure which may induce the loss of the union character on the deposit of the unional and commercial associations. We know that the EAJ and Socialist Party have agreed to the media like the day before yesterday in Gipuzia. The middle-class avoids, from our point of view, what is the substance and basis of this discussion: Confebask's certificate and his attitude and behavior, that's really the substance. We don't argue about the union freedom that we've thought about today is perfect and we want to make a car for the unional freedom. We're arguing about the fact that this was a Confebask document, and we didn't know any documents or documents, and we didn't know them, and we didn't know them, we didn't know them, we didn't know them, we didn't know them when they met at the interview, nobody, nobody, we're talking about it. And because the subject is grave, because it is not so much as to be called closed, without knowing or knowing anything more. And therefore it seems to us that what ye have agreed on is not sufficient, and that ye will now defend here. At least it seems to us that we have a right to the place where we arrived, to know what Confebask has actually introduced to CEO, that can't be in this case, in Confebask, a private secret thing, because the document with its name is still on the table without being solved today. It's not enough for them to say it's not theirs. Something else is possible to ask and demand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Passing over to the teams who were running the correction, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u89	Thank you very much, President. EH Bildu brings us to debate the alleged document "Confebask's Allegations to the Draft Royal Decree on Deposits of Statutes of Trade Unions and Business Organizations", attributed to Confebask, but which Confebask does not assume as its own. Drafts have been discussed in this Parliament, which the Government is supposed to bring to the Council of Ministers. This Parliament has discussed preliminary draft laws that are still under discussion. This Parliament has discussed supposed statements made by various advisers or ministers. This Parliament has even discussed supposed thoughts that some counselor had in his sleep. And finally, we are discussing today a document that nobody admits as their own and that nobody defends. Since we have free time, we will also devote a few minutes to this issue. Euskadi has no serious problems after all, so let's start discussing a document that nobody claims. In this supposed document, the loss of the status of trade union of ELA and LAB is supposed to be due to the development of supposed activities other than trade unions, such as initiatives or activities or positions in fiscal matters, on social clauses or in relation to the high-speed train, among others. According to this alleged document, such activities would be removed from the activities of a trade union and, as a result, those trade unions that carried them out should be removed from the register of trade union organizations. I am saying that I will enter the debate, even if this document does not require anyone to do so. In view of this proposal, whether real or imagined, it is worth remembering some things. Article 7 of the Spanish Constitution, which does exist, attributes to trade unions and business associations the defence and promotion of their own economic and social interests. From this we could deduce that the role of trade unions and business associations would be limited to defending professional interests. This interpretation would imply that Confebask itself could have violated the current law by allegedly overstepping its constitutional role from the moment it has been positioning itself on different public affairs. Similar things would happen with trade union organizations. There is, however, a broader interpretation of article 7 of the Constitution, taking into account the rest of the Constitution and evaluating other values contained therein, including freedom, democracy or the political participation of citizens. Taken together, we can conclude that the Spanish Constitution does not limit the role of trade unions and business associations to the protection of their economic interests, but extends its work to the promotion of social interests. And this comprehensive reading of the Spanish Constitution would therefore allow them to position themselves on all imaginable matters, as they usually do; they do and we do, by the way. In Constitutional Court judgement 18/1984 of 7 February, the Constitutional Court states that trade unions are essential institutions of the democratic system. In repeated judgements the Constitutional Court has stated that the trade unions perform, both by the express recognition of the Constitution, articles 7 and 28, and by the work of the international treaties signed by Spain in this field, a generic role in representing and defending the interests of workers. For this reason, I believe that, as of 6 March 2015, that is, as of today, Friday, we are all clear on the roles of business associations and trade union organisations. And that both play an indispensable role, provided that they are democratic organizations both play an indispensable role, beyond the fact that we share a particular strategy at a given time. Having said that, I say that Confebask denied the authorship of that document and also said that that document did not reflect the sense of the employer. The president of the employer added that the employer defends and believes in the role that in a democratic society it is incumbent on trade unions and business organizations, this is what he said. And he continued that the inclusion in statutes of social dialogue and institutional participation should not undermine the free decision of business and trade union organizations to join them in terms that they consider appropriate, without under any circumstances the degree of involvement could lead to the exclusion of registration, that is what he said. For our part, we believe in the role of trade unions and in the role of business associations. In particular, the trade union struggle has been historically indispensable, as I said before regardless of the strategies that some trade unions or others decide to follow at a given time. Finally, this is what we have wanted to put into our amendment. We therefore proposed that this Parliament should recognise the socio-occupational and socio-political dimension of business and trade union organisations, being sovereign in defining their scope of action, without prejudice to the implementation in the respective statutes of the typical means of action which are their own and the differences of other associations, depending on the regulatory requirements. And that Parliament should say that it does not share in any case that can be excluded from the register of business or trade union organisations to those who do not carry out the exercise of the typical means of action. Our amendment consisted of two points which are exactly the same as the two points raised in the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party. They are also reflected in the transactional of both groups that I have not signed. I have not signed the compromise because we have not been able to do so physically, but we agree with what is proposed here and we will vote in favour of that text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u90	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u91	Thank you, President. No rodeos, Mrs. Arrondo. It seems to us that this debate, not the debate, the original purpose of the debate, is artificial, not the following, artificial, very artificial. But we had the opportunity to say this in Parliament to the proposers of this subject and, therefore, we are not going to repeat what was said there, among other things because they do not participate in this debate. Even if this seems to us, we have to take it seriously, as a parliamentary group, in this case EH Bildu, brings this issue here and we will take it seriously. With this, we intend to show that the debate itself, neither this nor any other, we reject it, nor do we find it uncomfortable, except for the fact that we also have to make even a slight censorship of this union attitude, which this parliamentarian certainly weighs, because it is not intended to censor trade union activities that they freely choose. But the fact of bringing him here, in this kalejira of an apocryphal document, seems to us to be really a way of deorbiting things in the terms in which they are. We are going to enter the part that you propose, the proposed part. They speak of freedom understood in a broad sense. Well, that's a desideratum. Freedom of association, at least regulated by the Organic Law of 1985, defines the scope of this freedom of association. The question I ask you, Mrs Arrondo, is: the freedom that you propose, of an unlimited nature, goes beyond the typical means, the collective negotiation, the procedure of collective conflict, the right to strike, in short, all those things that are inherent? It doesn't mean that trade union activity is running out there, I won't be the one to say that. But when you pose that you can freely choose the means, I want to assume that these do not include the creation of somatones or similar things. In other words, the law already defines the scope of trade union freedom and what actions can be taken. On the other hand, the law itself sets out the procedures for acquiring legal personality. It is not Confebask who can pose that, no matter how much he wants or stops wanting it, it is the law itself that sets out how legal personality is acquired and what is judicial control when the statutes may not be in conformity with law. And that is in the Law, and of course so far we have not seen, either on the part of you or of the trade unions mentioned above, that there is a question of the law guaranteeing the right to freedom of association. But it is true that this is an interesting issue, because ELA, the most representative union, and the greatest representativeness is also in the order collected as an extra faculty, we do not know very well what is the purpose that leads you to sponsor and promote this matter. Yesterday I had the opportunity to listen attentively to his secretary general, and it seemed to me of great interest to listen to him, because really many doubts and many unknowns at least I have about what the purpose of ELA is or what it really wants to be. And I was basically saying this. They do not go to the social dialogue table because they want to talk about fiscal policy and they are told no. This was the first thing that caught my attention, because I believe that talking about fiscal policy is entitled to ELA and everyone. The debate on fiscal policy is not confined to any elite or privileged group. The fiscal debate is permanent and concerns society as a whole, and especially, of course, trade unions. However, talking about fiscal policy is one thing, but what kind of agreements can be made in such a body between employers and trade unions in the field of fiscal policy? They said more things. That the debates on fiscal policy are opaque, that the parliaments do not allow the debate on taxation to be diaphanous. You are in one, and together with us, some tax agreements have been concluded in Gipuzkoa. Are those agreements opaque? You don't talk at tax boards? I think so, in Gipuzkoa's and I understand that in the rest. Another thing is that these unions are not actually present there. If you want you can do it, but you would have to be something other than a union, you would obviously have to be a political force. So, what do you want to be? This is important for us, because at the end of the day political activity, as I say, does not concern only political parties. It is an activity that can be carried out beyond what institutions are, yes. But knowing what the scope of the activity you can deploy and what you can perform is also important. The exercise of this freedom of association affects all trade unions, regardless of their representativeness. But it turns out that both ELA and LAB argue that trade unions that do not have such a trade union majority should not, apparently, have the right to engage in such activities, whether in collective bargaining or in social dialogue or not. Who then limits the right to freedom of association? Because ELA and LAB have every right in the world not to exercise those rights, if they do not want to, or not to practice those exercises. But trying to prevent other unions from carrying it out when the law, when the right to freedom of association is allowed, gives me the impression that that is a clear limitation of the right to freedom of association to other unions. And it is also very often spoken of the union majority. And it is that the law takes into account representativeness, not talking about majorities that can be formed according to alliances or conjunctures, but more representative unions. The first is ELA, yes, but the second is Commissions. The fact that they do not have alliances, that they do not have unity of trade union action, does not mean that the concept of trade union majority can be imposed on the entire political agenda, which is what it is about. Because of course you can make your contributions and you can talk, how not, it would be more lacking, than it is necessary. But would you agree in a foreign government that tax decisions should be agreed by employers and trade unions? No, it would be kind of abhorrent. This does not mean or exclude the right to make its contributions, to make its proposals, to analyse with criteria all the weaknesses that the current tax system or fiscal policies have, are different things. Having brought this here with all this confusion about the paternity or non-paternity of the document, finally, it reminds me of the Emperor's syndrome, which in the field of psychology applies a childish behavior, where the creature feels the center of the universe. It is just that we cannot really come to say, in the end, however still the discourse is, that this trade union majority can veto the right to freedom of association of other trade unions or that the political agenda has to revolve around what they propose. It could be if instead of being trade unions, the institutions were under another formula. Because, whether it is true or not what that document says, whether it is true or not fatherhood, what is clear is that it is not possible that the privilege – by calling it something else – or the status – better said – that trade unions have because of being so, can serve for extra-mural issues of what trade union activity is, understanding that this is one to make broad, of course, not limited, because all the problems and all the issues that affect the social body are also a matter of interest to trade unions. But it turns out that they do not go to the Basque Economic and Social Council because they say that tax issues are not there, but they do go to Spanish because they are there. Well, if you say it openly, you have to throw the Territory Act by the nineteenth, of course, because the power to deal with tax matters resides where it resides. And that is that in principle we don't change it any of us as much as we want, unless there are parliamentary agreements that say something else. But to this day, this is so. And then there is the great paradox that ELA comes to the Spanish Economic and Social Council, I don't know how much to influence it, but not the one here, which really seems to us to be a sarcasm.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. I tried to come to the subject today and leave them alone for one more time. Again, the sketch of the royal decree on the deposit of union and corporational organizations has been discussed by Confebask on the interpelration of the appurtenances supposed to have been made by Confeces. Talking about this subject over and over won't change their attitude to this subject, Mrs. Arrido. Since we've heard about the supposed letter from Confebask, we've had a series of questions, interpenetrations, and representatives of ELA and LA and LAB unions in the parliament, both in the whole meeting and in the committee, as you said. As we said on the day of our union union reps, we don't understand its interest in the EH Collect will continue this matter. On the basis of everything, as has been said, it lies in a document supposed by Confebask, although it has been publicly stated by the corporations that this document is not its document. Then why go on with this thing all the time? The origin of so much activity – questions, interpellations, appearances – is a document of allegations that Confebask allegedly has prepared in connection with the draft of the royal decree on the deposit of statutes of trade union and business organizations. And we say supposedly because Confebask has denied his authorship. Therefore, for us, point and end, a matter concluded, as we also said last week or 10 days ago in the committee. As we say here today, we sent representatives of ELA and LAB to appear before the committee. In this committee, both unions insisted on giving credibility to the Confebask document, although the employer does not recognize its authorship. Once again, for us this matter is over, but Bildu insists on continuing to speak and debate on this point, because it seems to him very serious what Confebask supposedly said and which he in turn denies having said or written. We said it openly at the scene and repeated it at the whole meeting: we are on the side of union freedom, and so does our middle-term correction. And I'm sure all the members of the legislature agree with this statement. The middle term which we have signed with the Social Party, is, as you have said, the same as that which we have discussed yesterday and yesterday at the Great Courts of Gipulia, where the Union has also introduced the initiative. We had two options on this subject: to leave the dispute thus, without entering further depths, and to show no correction to the fundamental initiative, and to vote negatively, or to make the ardent defence of syndicate freedom. And we've chosen this second way in the middle, because the discussions are OK and so we've decided. We want it to be absolutely clear that we are in favour of trade union freedom as it could not otherwise be, since it is a fundamental right and one of the fundamental parts of the labour relations system proper to a social and democratic rule of law. We recognize the work of trade unions in defending the interests of workers and improving their working conditions, as well as the sovereignty they enjoy in establishing their internal organization and limits of action. The transactional amendment calls on the public authorities to promote trade union law and remove obstacles that prevent or hinder its exercise. Finally, it rejects the exclusion from the register of business and trade union organisations of those who do not carry out the exercise of the so-called "typical means of action". This last point is that in Confebask's alleged claim greater unrest generated the unions and that is why we have collected it, so it is clear that we do not agree with that article of the draft decree. The first point of the gathering is united in our medium. And as for the second point, Confebas says he hasn't made any such an arrangement, he doesn't seem to blame his attitude. So, in our opinion, the subject does not give more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Next, passing round the teams who have no correction, the representative of the Basque Potula, Lord Damboreea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. For the fifth time in this Parliament, we are going to talk and discuss a document that does not exist, that is, nothing; fifth time, because it is clearly a priority issue for Basque citizens. We have not made any amendments to Bildu's proposal, because we are not going to enter the game of saying "Confebask has done but has not done but such", then end up saying "we all believe in union freedom", which is what Bildu proposes at the end in the first paragraph. Because no one has questioned the right to freedom of association, which, thank God, does not depend on Bildu, as none of our fundamental rights, because, perhaps, we had none left, nor does it depend on this Parliament. Freedom of association is enshrined in Article 28 of the Constitution, in point 1 and the right to strike in point 2. And then enshrined in Organic Law 11/85, which is called trade union freedom. And I say it's called union freedom and it regulates what it regulates. And you, gentlemen of Bildu, are telling us that it is that with some allegations to a decree you can charge all of this, so trade union freedom is supposedly at risk. And as we all know it's a lie, including you, of course, the question to ask is, why are we here today talking about this? And I tell you that it is a lie because that same law, in article 13 of that law, says that any worker or trade union who considers the rights of freedom of association to be impaired may go to court to claim them in the process of judicial appropriation of fundamental rights, because this is provided for in the Constitution. And today no one has done it, neither has ELA nor LAB. No one has proposed to defend the right to freedom of association, because everyone knows that this debate we are having here is false. That is why we have not made an amendment. It is clear that we are in favour, as it could not be otherwise. And in favor of the transactional that the other groups have signed. But this is not the debate, this is not what you have brought us here. The representative of Bildu, I have written down some of her sentences. You say "Confebask denies the document," and then for you literally tells us: "The most worrying thing for Bildu is that Confebask denies the document and neither the Basque Government nor anyone else knows it." So, what's worrying here, whether the document exists or not? What's more worrying about Bildu? That there is no document, because what they would want was for the document to exist. And then they say, "It's not enough for Confebask to say it's not theirs." I just don't know what Confebask has to do, besides saying that it's not yours, so that you'll assume something and we won't be here today talking about exactly what. I don't know what we're talking about. What's worrying about Bildu, whether there's that document or there's no document? What's more worrying? Perhaps Bildu wanted that document to exist to bring this debate here. Or is the issue that is being proposed here by the adalids of trade union freedom is that perhaps what needs to be done is to illegalize Confebask? Because what is the true approach that underlies here in this you bring? It is clear that it is not trade union freedom; it is clear that it is not the document, because it does not matter whether it exists or does not exist, because more worrying than there is that it does not exist. And in the meantime, well, it's two and twenty in the afternoon and obviously Madam President, we're not going to spend any more time on this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u96	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u97	Thank you. It's clear again. At first I said that this discussion didn't please you, it wasn't comfortable, you didn't believe it, so you confirmed it. Mr. Maniro says that the subject does not exist, Mr. Ichasus calls it "Adebate Artificialo," Madame Arregia y final, the final problem, she seems to be hungry, and she's not in a hurry, because she doesn't even know what document we're talking about. So that's the radioography of this legislature on this subject, unfortunately. Unfortunately, you believe what Confebask said from top to bottom, but you don't give credit to union unions with more than 60 percent of workers. You do not confess to them any credibility, you preach their troubles, and their proposal; for I wish to remember that it is their proposition. Mr. Bosso, I'm not here to defend the union routine of ELA and LA and LAB. That's what they're gonna do. I know you've got a problem with all this and it's clear when you talk about it. But we're talking about something else here today. We're talking about a document called Confebaske, and what was proposed here is very serious. And then Confebask admits that there is a document, that he has sent a document to COE, but that he will not reveal it, and that we must accept and believe his word. And you believe, and we don't believe it. And we think if you ask for the document, we think there's a right to know, because it's all the other people have done. Esan nahi dut ére, Itxaso jauna, esaten duzunean askatasun sindikalari buruz hitz egiten dugunean zertaz ari garan hitz egiten, of course ez dugu hitz egiten Confebaskek dokumentu honetan esaten duenari buruz. Begira zer esaten duen: "No longer to be denied", ELA éa LAB buruz hitz egiten ari da, "to practice social dialogue or have been absent for many years from the bodies and councils of institutional participation. On the one hand, they have entered into the dynamics of successfully boycotting existing and practicing the rest of the actors that such social dialogue. And on the other hand, they devote a large part of their efforts to issues that are not their own, such as everything about the high-speed train, or which only have to do with trade union action, legislative initiatives on social clauses or on fiscal matters." Gero Esaten du: "Of course these organizations can freely dedicate themselves to what they think is most appropriate, but they should not be infested with what they really are not, trade unions." Hori da dokumentu Honetan zegoena. Zer dago dokumentuan beasts, Madrilera bidali duten dokumentuan? Ez dakigu. Beraz, ezagutzen dugun bakarra hau dai. What lies here on the basis is perverse, the world upside down. We even said at the board: "When there's a serious problem about the patronial that's making his whole budget up to the public, he looks away from it, he listens to it, he listens to it. And this is very significant, especially to know who is in charge of certain matters, of which it is plain. For, as I have said before, it is not the same credibility to the vast representation of workers, which is great and strong in this case. And then, you know, it's all right. Being seated with his Makers, comfortable, exemplary, and Diagnostic, he invented vain solutions which will not solve our real affairs. That's not the way we're going. Today we're losing a chance to tell the patriot that certain things are red lines, that he can't do, and that if he doesn't, he should prove them, and still more if he works with the public money. And it's not coming out. It's a shame. Let's hope you're studying this thing some time with another seriousness, and we'll hope that we'll ever take the things here to practice. Because we know, Mr. Damborena, we're used to things like that in other cases, and we end up with the con la Ley Mordaza, etcéera, etcéera. No son toterías.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mystate, he mustn't speak. Mr. Bixen Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u99	Mrs Arrondo, the debate on trade union freedom does not bother us at all, believe me, nothing at all. What is a little irritating is to use these kinds of things to cause a noise and a smoke that does not correspond to the essence. This happens because here it seems that we are conducting some sort of popular judgment, and popular judgments have that, which in the end is not very well known what we are talking about. Whatever Confebask says, in one sense or another, I say it frankly, I care about a cumin. Public rights and freedoms I want them to be well reflected in laws, which are what give guarantee and legal certainty. In a plural, complex and diverse society there must be everything – better, worse, good, bad and half pensioners – but what guarantees all civil rights and public freedoms are the laws. Laws that have not been questioned here at any time, laws that reflect all these great concepts of rights and freedoms. And so, the irritating thing is to be talking about things that can or cannot be proved, but that is why I was emphasizing the somewhat childish nature of this matter. The child who goes "Miss, which is that this one has said, no, that I have not said" and come here. No, man no, that's not the point. I congratulate ELA for its results and for reaping the fruits of the strategy that follows. I cannot congratulate the hundreds of thousands of Basque workers who, with this greater representativeness, have no coverage of collective agreements, I cannot. I mean, I recognize the legitimacy of the representative unions, ELA is, with LAB they make up a large majority, that they can enforce it, but they can't pretend that the world stops because they want to get down. It can't be. That's what I'm telling you, Mrs Arrondo. The irritating thing is to try to disturb, because if we talk about trade union freedom, we talk about trade union freedom. But it's just that this thing doesn't question anything. Confebask can be put up making the bridge pine and whatever you want, but it is the laws that have to guarantee the rights. And, as I say, so far the law that regulates all this has not been questioned. We stick to it and that's the rule of law, which we care about in front of the gallery. And everything else, I tell you without acrid, it's birds and flowers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u101	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. Just a couple of things, Mrs. Arrido. You insisted that the initiative you brought here today is the initiative of ELA and LAB which they asked for. But in our opinion, ELA and LAB are masters to defend their proposals in the places they please, and some of them, for instance, are the Tables of Social Dialog, or Patrolal, and Confebascle, where it is necessary to speak and explain and explain what is necessary. We have listened to their position in the legislature, and we know what they say, but we have heard that Confebask says that this letter or that document of representation is not theirs. So it's not a thing of faith. You've been over and overhearing it, Mrs. Arrido, and I really didn't think we'd have any such discussions about believing here or not believing it. And finally, you've been up and down. Even here it sounds like fun to me that it's all wrong, with faith, and I don't know why. What are you gonna do? Condemned? Ask? Why? There are other ways to do that. Yeah, I know you explained it, but there's a few other things and I told you about the first one. And even when we had any shows, we clearly said that you were making a ball, rolling and rolling, round and round, about a supposed business document, and when supposed authors say that this is not their document. So this is a big ball for us. And then the unional elections up and down. Yeah, we need to congratulate ELA and LAB and the other unions, and we don't have a problem with that. But that's not the discussion today. The discussion has the basis in a supposed termal document, and it is only for us. And here we appear to be finished and hope this will end forever.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Finally, Popular, Mr Dammit, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u103	You tell us that we believe Confebask more than ELA. Man, on Confebask's documents you will have to believe more Confebask, on those from ELA to ELA, on those from LAB to LAB, and those from UGT to UGT. And if Confebask says it's not his and you tell him it's not enough for him, what I want him to say, it's a debate of the deaf. No one can prove what doesn't exist. But, well, I'm going to repeat the same thing I said to the ELA representative on the committee. This is a false and fictitious debate. Let's assume that the document is real, let's assume that the document said that, let's assume that those were the allegations. And? Are they in the government's decree? Have they assumed? Can you assume them? Can a decree amend an organic law? It's impossible. Even if that were true, it's impossible. It is the first debate in which I have attended in the last two years in this Parliament in which there is talk of a decree of the PP government and it does not give rise to the decree of the PP government, but rather the allegations made by one of the parties having an interest in or participation in that decree. That is why I must congratulate the PP Government for the first time, because there is unanimity in which it has done so fantastic by not collecting the allegations that did not exist in a document that did not exist. But at least, in the end, we haven't even been wrong about that. And as I also told the representative of ELA. If the representative of ELA had an interest in hearing from Confebask himself that he was told personally to the face that he did not exist, he could have gone to the sectoral table and asked him, which is where he is. What is absurd is that ELA or LAB say that Confebask has to come to Parliament to say that, when he said it two months ago where he would belong, in our view. You can obviously think otherwise. But I'm going to remind you of that Freedom of Association Act just one thing. Article 2.1 states "the right to re-found trade unions without prior authorization" and is an organic law. It is that no decree of this Government or of any Government can modify these things. And even if you want to, as many allegations as you make, it's going to happen. Therefore, we can continue here talking about nothing or nothing. As you tell me, that's how the laws start gag. The gag laws begin with those who can gag. You know a lot about that, but thank God we're not here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u104	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. It's over and we're going to vote with the original text of Madame Arrival Rocko Underground. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; 20; the opponents are 53; white, 0; abstentions are 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u105	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the full correction of Misto-UPyD. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; in favour 8, contrary, 65; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u106	Integer correction not accepted. And finally, we vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and by the Eucaists of Euzia. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters of 53; opposites, 20; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u107	The central correction has been approved. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of the Social rental housing as a team of law enforcements. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ichaso, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u108	Thank you, President. The socialists presented this initiative based on a pilot experience that the Generalitat of Catalonia launched in June 2014 with an initial budget allocation of 2.5 million euros and that allowed to do rehabilitation works, for a maximum value of 12,000 euros per housing, in exchange for the transfer of it to the Generalitat for six years for its social rent for several reasons. The data on the management carried out by the current Department of Housing tells us that, despite the very good intentions that are placed in the Housing Master Plan 2013-2016 regarding the impulse to give access to rented housing and the fundamental objective of reducing the number of uninhabited housing, the fact is that in the last two years the empty housing capture programmes existing in the Autonomous Community are not yielding the results foreseen in that plan. As of today, with regard to the Bizigune programme for the collection of housing for rent, not only does it not meet the objectives set out in the Housing Master Plan, but it has fewer housing units than in December 2012. And the ASAP programme, which launched the previous government shortly before the end of the legislature and which aims primarily to facilitate the incorporation of empty private-owned dwellings into the rental market at an affordable price for tenants, has not just begun and has not been meeting the objectives set by the ASAP for the Housing Master Plan. In the meantime, at the current economic juncture, the number of tenants far exceeds the number of tenants, and in our view the Basque Government must put in place all the necessary mechanisms to promote access to tenants to as many people as possible. Therefore, and bearing in mind that while it is true that the Housing Master Plan 2013-2016 emphasises the search for formulas to facilitate access to rented housing, the need to reduce the existing empty housing stock in the Autonomous Community and the promotion of rehabilitation actions on the existing park, which are basically reflected in Action 43F Study of the implementation of an aid line on the three main axes of the Uninhabited Housing Mobilization, Rehabilitation and Housing Rental plan, it is also that no reference has been made from the Department of Employment and Social Policy to have any specific programme in this regard. For us, the implementation of a program of these characteristics can help achieve several objectives. Empty housing mobilization made social rent, which would help to boost access to housing for those most in need. Aid for improving the accessibility and habitability of the old housing stock in the Autonomous Community. Both direct and indirect employment generation in an economic activity, rehabilitation, which, in the face of the exclusive stake for new residential developments, implies a lower consumption of economic and natural resources and a better use of the existing housing stock. Studies have shown that not only 85% of additional economic activity is generated for each euro invested in rehabilitation, but 1.7 new jobs are generated for each direct job. In addition, the investment to create a new job in rehabilitation – some EUR 65,000 calculated – is lower than that required in the rest of the construction or industrial activities and that of rehabilitation is one of the sectors with the greatest local participation in the benefits it generates. It is estimated that around 80 % of the economic impact of this activity remains within the region of which the investment is made. For these reasons, we presented our initiative, which has led to an amendment to compromise with the Basque Nationalist Party, to which I thank for its willingness to the agreement, since we started with similar budgets. Therefore, conclude the agreement and the transaction and hope that the rest of the groups will adhere to it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing over to the teams who have set forth the corrections, the Eubertarian representative of the group, Mr. Altarga, is your word. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u110	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Zure baimenarekin, esterlekutik egingo dut. Our group has tabled an amendment which coincided, as Mr Itxaso rightly says, with the Socialist Group's proposal in substance, and also coincides with what the Government is studying. It is a pilot experience to mobilize empty housing and get it incorporated into the rental housing stock. It is a matter of the owners of enclosed flats giving them free of charge to the Administration for a period of time, in exchange for the Government doing the works, usually small works, such as arrangement of bathrooms, kitchens, facilities, etc., or accessibility issues. A kind, ladies and gentlemen, of rent rehabilitation. Something that in civil relations between private individuals is already covered by the Urban Leases Act itself. It would now be a matter of incorporating this approach towards the competent public administration in the field of housing. And what we regret, Mr Itxaso, is that this form of action has not been able to be discussed within the presentation in charge of studying the proposal for a housing law. And not precisely because of our group's lack of interest. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u111	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing to teams that have no corrections, Mistto's gone. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u112	With your permission, also from the seat, Madam President, because if the proposer has been so brief and the amendment too, it is not a question of extending the others. The truth is that, without precedent, Mr Itxaso, and take it as a joke, I was going to vote yes on his own initiative, I am going to vote also on the amendment, because I had no but one. We believe from the People's Group that it is a very good initiative, because it fulfils all the objectives you have said, to put empty housing on the market means to encourage rent, which is the legal instrument most demanded at the moment by the Basques to access housing, and supposes that the old housing stock that our Community has can be rehabilitated. And all this, as we have always insisted on in the People's Group, through promotion and not through criminalization. That is why, just as we were going to vote for the original initiative in the affirmative, we will also do so in the amendment. And just hope that this does not stay here and that this parliamentary mandate will be fulfilled and implemented. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u113	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Count the EH team representative, Mrs. Beitilian, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u114	Thank you, and good evening to all. I'm sorry. To tell the truth, I've never been too difficult to be alone, and today I've been left alone, what are we going to do? I want to explain what the Basque People are like to do with this subject. For here there seems to be a proposition in very simple words, which is not of itself very great, he will forgive me, and much less will he who says that there is at last but a middle course, if we associate with practice that has still less meaning. I had my doubts about the proposal. Not because I'm against it, not that much less, and our team isn't against it. To tell you the truth, I wasn't quite sure whether I had a yes or abscessation, so we're going to get paid by the middle course. And what I want to explain is what doubts we have and how we see things in this matter. First of all, because they know the disagreements we have with the HUD plan. And not so much because we think we ought to take such measures as are now in dispute, or because it says that we are opposed, or less because we do not see the proper measure in this and in many other cases, but because we do not see it at the moment of the performance. And not even if we compare the necessary resources to the plan, because we're only talking about an increase in the budget at 67%. And the Socialist team has made his request in this way, and he has put its half-way into it with the group of the Eucators. And to begin with, it's not a small doubt, it's true, what this matter gives us. Besides, the demand itself, as it does, appoint a measure in a very general manner, and it is said that it will be examined, not put, and it does not give any details, it does not determine how much it is to re-establish, nor how far it is in concepts such as the rent or the like. For it is true, that the inconveniencies of the housing are immense, but also that the difficulties of resisting the expense of it are increased by the greater and the greater. We think we ought to take that in the same way. It is only to see what is happening on the house-house list: the number of requests is descending. Because a lot of people have satisfied their needs? Well, no, I'm afraid not. Be a rental housing, be on property, because it's getting farther and further away for people. So what's urgent is taking effective measures in this area. And still more doubting: A general measure of this kind will produce results, if it is not with other features? That is to say, the tax due to those who deny and keep the social function to empty, without taking any other measures than canon or whatever, against what has been said here? Well, we believe that the politics of the empty houses will agree with us, Mr. Ichasus, that the politics must be more integrated with us, and that, in truth, we may be able to tell the truth in that power of the housing law which seems interminable to us. For, with occasional ideas, loose and general ideas, we shall hardly do anything, nor can we say that the backbone, determining measure, and the like of that policy which is to be proposed to us to-day. And we do not understand in this subject, which demands a real change of politics, when we are speaking of an application against empty houses which require various measures of medium and length, how we may come now to break this way again from an already removed standard of policy. Because I need to remind the Socialist team today that at the time of your fun, they were taken away, helped to help the homeowners out of it for reform or re-establishment. When you get to the government, not too much, the other guys have other budget problems on an excuse. And in this way, 20% of the help they got, like, 200 years of year, were out of that chance. Seeing, therefore, and for many other reasons, whether this interval, this way, is urged or not, but that the housing measure is, in any way, giving but little results in the programme of life, it is plain, that there is not a single measure, that there is need of some. If we were to consider the question of funding as a reason, even the present ones would be able to say the same, and not for us now and now it is not satisfactory. For it is true that the Socialist Government has not restored what has been taken away from it, but I dare say, that it has profited all the gates and all the roads to prevent all such aids. So far, this exchange system has been used in privates for renting a new house, and the law has received the only formula in 2013, which the Administration contained in 2003, which offered means of renewing 18, 18,000 euros, the mode of removing 300 euros per month from rent to rent, and also for the owner who did it, useful or useful, if you like. The results were limited, but the results were successful. And now he would reply to a certain sector, because we can't possibly forget that there are situations beyond it, which are very old, and which would require more than a good deal of help if they'd be useful again. It is plain, therefore, that it requires an integral policy, if it were to be applied it might be an additional measure, but that the axis will not be changed if we change its inclinations. The amount of number given in the name below, at the same level where the difficulty of paying for the house is propagated, and the number of houses in the survival program is descending from 2011. In 2014, according to the information he gave me, it was the 526 homeowners who gave it to me. It's now that we're spending a lot of money trying to get 400 other housing together. I don't know very well in the direction of building the park, seeing what views we have in discussions, or if we say that the money is spending something more than that, and then we can get rid of it. We know that the reasons are different, but we do not doubt that effective measures to mobilize empty houses are required, and that a serious wager is required. And we do not see that the government which makes this choice, and I thought that the Socialist group had eyes or critical spectacles on this subject as much as I do, is the reason why I was partly mistaken. There's just a look at the data. It's only $4,90 houses that run the housing, 6,000, that's all that's about renting public houses. If we consider that, under consideration of official data, what I think is quite safe is that empty houses are at least 91.000, and according to the same information, they are able to make up $42.000 rentals, and not only that, but that there are only 6,6% of them on the rent offer, and that the number of faults which are not in the rent during the last four years has gone up, well, maybe you will forgive me for the details of this sort of data and a small, partial measure, but that we can hardly upset the situation, at least we can make up the solution, but we can't use new ones. And therefore I say, that if time should give us the hint of the medium we hesitated about, I would rather, if time should show us time after our abstinence, that, on the part of all those who truly defend and sign, there is a will to go on with it. And I'm sorry we've almost run out of time, but we had no teats for lunch, and we don't interrupt it, and we think it's very important. Although the proposal itself is trivial or trifling, the subject itself is of importance. And so I think it's been well handled eight minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Passing on the answering round, the representative of the Basque Socialists, Mr. Ichaso, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u116	Effectively low, and I will speak slower to consume time, because I cannot respond in the time I have all that you have said. But I would have appreciated that to such a large number of objections, if you had tabled an amendment, even with the "Long Live Rental" wild card, you would have allowed us to talk about this broadly and overwhelmingly in order to have cleared up the differences in criteria. Because we, too, are in favour of the law once again and that it is the housing law that effectively incorporates all the policies in which we have agreed, not only you and us, but also a large part of the rest of the parliamentary arc in a number of figures that it incorporates. The truth is that, contrary to what Mr Aldaiturriaga puts forward, if this subject and many others had led them to the paper, that paper, in the end, could be the endless story. Therefore, in the usual exercise of an opposition group, which is to say to be launching initiatives from every jaez and at every moment, this is once, that just coincides with the procedure of the law and that it aims, in fact, also to boost and accelerate its completion. I hope that all these objections can be calmly debugged. Furthermore, I would also like to thank Mrs Llanos for the praise of the initiative, but I must say that it is not mine but the group, so it is a good idea. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u117	Anybody else want to talk? We're going to vote for the Middle Amendment signed by Euskal Socialists and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents are 52; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; 10; abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-06.u118	The central correction has been approved. I shall next read an institutional expression: "The 8th institutional representation of the March. In 1975, the United Nations Organization appointed March 8th to be the International Day of Women. And this day we announce that the equality of women and men is not merely human rights, but essential, and necessary for the human development of Euscal Autonomy to the social and economic development of the Renaissance. "We have a perfect place to give praise to all the women of the world, to all the women who have fought and fought for their rights, and who have sometimes risked their lives. "It is also a good disposition to confess what equality is, a culture and philosophy, founded on the worth necessary to mankind. The principle of equality contributes to the growth of the autonomy of all men, and strengthens the values based on mutual equality, fosters the relations of the equals, and contributes to improve democracy. "The Universal Institution of Human Rights of 1948 established equality in dignity and rights above all the conditions of all persons. "There have been 10 years in the Basque Act since the law of Women and Men has been accepted. We praise everything which has advanced to equality from this law, and which we now advance, but we must confess that we have a great deal left to do at the same time, and we wish to confess it. There is also a chance of reflection and balance, that there should be no retreat in the liberty and rights which have been obtained, and that there should be still differences. "He is chiefly capable of women to watch and to preserve his house's work. Again, though in many districts the differences have decreased, yet in other areas there has not been acquired, e.g. in the field of work. Women are still working in the less paid sectors of work, they're infected in the decisions, and she's still in charge of the family and family area. This makes it even more difficult for him to concentrate on those two spheres and to leave them at a disadvantage to develop his professional career. "Today is also a day to claim to society, because while it is true that we have managed to take steps, the road to achieving effective equality between women and men is still very long, which will come from the hand of the feminist struggle and of women. To this end, we urgently need a change of values that will encourage this social transformation that will end forever with the discrimination of women at work, with the social and economic gap that this entails, with the unequal distribution of productive and reproductive work and with the macho violence towards women, the harshest and cruel consequence of inequality between women and men. "We are aware that we are faced with a complex task. Precisely because of the difficulty of this task, we invoke each and every one of the people that we are part of this society so that in our daily lives we can build with our decisions and behavior that equality so necessary and desired that it is the task of all and of all. "But beyond this, it's a day to commit. That is why we want to corroborate our position. We must continue to drive action firmly. All the actions necessary to achieve equality between women and men, as this will enable us to build a more supportive and just society that puts life at the centre of the economy and the other way around. "It is necessary that society, women, and men, civil society, and social agents, unions, political parties, and public powers should be united in order to achieve the same rights. That's why we want this statement to go beyond the ideological plans, beyond social and economic circumstances, even beyond a certain moment, that is, beyond the March. Let there be a firm and permanent struggle, let the axis of our actions be on every day of the year, because social justice demands it, and it is necessary for the whole society. The principle of equality helps us to go on as a society, contributes to improve the autonomy and dignity of the people, encourages us in respect, and renders us deep in democracy and justice. "For this reason, in the 8th of March, 2015, as the international day of the woman, we confirm the will to continue to make strong steps for the true equality of women and men. "The law of Europe indicates its commitment to strengthen the struggle for women's associations, to strengthen the struggle for women's rights and the feminist struggle for equalities and equalities, and to strengthen every collective and individual. "Then he calls the people to share the performances which are arranged around the International Day of Women." Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I end the whole meeting. It was seven o'clock in the afternoon.
