ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, say that the fifth point has been withdrawn and that in the fifth place the thirteenth will be discussed. The 12th one for another. Number 31, for another. "The seventh [shall be] the tenth, and the seventh shall be the seventh. [[Berber]] Again? Okay, take them all. Five, retired. In the fifth place, the thirteen will be seen. Twelve for another. Twenty-one for another. "In the seventh place it shall be visible to ten, and in the tenth place it shall be seven. All of you? I'll start the entire meeting. First point in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the staff of the Usurmen and the political department of the United States of the United States have taken part in Climat Group from Euberto. " Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. We are a growing population, which leads us to the limits of the power of the resources of the planet, with all its consequences. We look around us as normal access to various basic services (determination, health, education, energy, communication, etc.), but this place in the world doesn't work the same way. There is a difference in the global level of our idea of worthy life. As far as the environment is concerned, the challenge is to assume that we live on a planet of limited resources and to which we are subjecting a great imbalance that needs to be corrected. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, ladies and gentlemen. Global warming has been largely caused by industrialized nations, and Euskadi is one of them. However, the resolution of the climate change problem requires concerted action at the global level. This autumn, therefore, a conference will be held in Paris to lay the groundwork for ensuring annual global control of greenhouse gases. Euskadi is part of the Alliance of Regions and Associated States for Carbon Reduction, known as the Climate Group. Climate change occurs globally, but solutions must be local. That's why we ask you: What are our proposals from Euskade in Paris to diminish or eliminate the causes of the gas effects of the greenhouse effect by means of Climate Group? I'm waiting for your answer, Mrs. Chief. I appreciate the information beforehand. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u2	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u3	Good morning, ma'am, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted at the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit in 92, entered into force on 21 March 94 and has been ratified by 196 States, known as "the parties". France will indeed host and chair the twenty-first conference of the parties in Paris from 30 November to 11 December 2015. This is a crucial date that must lead to a new international climate agreement, applicable to all countries, with the aim of keeping global warming below two degrees Celsius. As Ban Ki-moon says, "There's no plan B, because we don't have a planet B." Each country will explain in Paris what it intends to do, what it must do to combat climate change, but it must first make all its contributions to this summit. Since the New York Summit in September 2014, we have entered into a positive dynamic of applications of concrete actions, exchanges of good practices and transfer of knowledge that demonstrate what people can do and encourage the mobilization of all. The success of Paris, as most stakeholders believe, will be based on four pillars: the achievement of a universal agreement under the convention that will enter into force in 2020; national contributions with the objectives of the convention; increased financial support for action in developing countries; and increased cooperation for action with the participation of Governments, not only States, but at all levels. Euskadi has always been an active agent in international forums by making the voice of sub-state governments heard. In 2014 we took an active part in the New York Summit and the COP20 in Lima. Throughout this year 2015 Euskadi is also being proactive through the networks we are part of, that is, Climate Group, nrg4SD, Encore, ICLEI... In the case of Climate Group we work on the alliance States and Regions created with the 2005 Montreal Declaration, where we play the leading role for Europe, being the lead for America of the Premier of Quebec and being for Asia of the Premier of South Australia. As for ICLEI, this same April we participated in the world conference in Seoul, where the Seoul Declaration "Building a World with Local Actions for a Sustainable Urban Future" was adopted. In June we will be present at the Green Week in Brussels making our contributions. We will also participate in July in Lyon at the Climate and Territory Summit, where non-state governments will share our contributions on the road to Paris. In all this, we'd like to take a permanent job and management to the Paris COP21 Council. We may summarize this: I suggest that the Escal strategy against climate change and that the session will be ready in the next June with the anti-action of our climate change, the suscal economics received in our Environment Rescalus Program, and as the European leader in Euskkaska, in the international forum (Climat, nrgSD, Encorre, ICLE and so on). These activities show that we have a strong engagement with the agreements obtained on the summits of the Convention on the recent changes of the United Nations' organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. The 15th point has also been left for another. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Golduguus, made to the President about economics and the growth of employment." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u5	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, at the beginning of the law you promised us 2015 as a year when there would be a clean job. Now...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u7	...by your own statement, the crisis is considered over, even if you say the total recovery will not come until 2020. It seems to us that if there are more and more people after the crisis, it is in a more serious situation than when the crisis began. We say "persons end," and if so, we believe that persons and people are to be treated with situations rather than merely economic indicators. A data: There are over 2,000 unemployed people than when you took possession of the President. Reality, the difficulty in the Esquimenia of the Estal Autonomia Errean, is characteristic. There is no growth in ours, and, further, compared with the other autonomies of the State, as is so often done, we have difficulties, or would not be placed in such good positions. The message passed in a couple of weeks ago was found again with the worklessness we had known in a few days, with the stubborn reality. Do the predictions, then, agree with the well-being or reality of the inhabitants of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuia?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u8	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Uruzuno, we know reality well, so we do our previsions wisely. That's true, but even if the predictions you made last year were improved. The growth was greater than expected, and a clean employment was produced. I don't know where you get your data, but it's obvious that a clean job was created. The growth was greater than expected, and the employment was produced, I repeat. Now, I'm telling you, I think it's better than 2015. Of course, we'll know the circumstances, and if we examine them dead, of course the readings can be different. But even if you know the circumstances, growth will be 2,3% and a clean job will be re-created. That's the reality, and it's fun's work to get those predictions. We've been telling the truth since the first day. We've accepted the difficulties. We've made clear priorities. The fact is still difficult, Mr. Urruzuno, I know that, but you must accept two things: After seven years, from the beginning of the crisis until today, pure employment has been founded in Euskadin: the year before, 8,000 people were unemployed at this moment. Are problems over? No, but it's a good direction, and we have to keep that direction. The Government will continue to make an effort for social cohesion and also for support for the enterprise, because we know that employment is created by the enterprise, neither by decree is created by the Government, nor by the deputies, nor by the municipalities, except what public employment may be. We know that growth is the result of a collective effort, and that is the message I transmit, the collective effort and that the best situation is also thanks to that collective effort. We maintain growth forecasts, including employment, and the reduction in the unemployment rate to 13.7%. Economic growth does not end the crisis. Our priority is now to turn that growth into job creation. They are two vectors: economic reactivation and employment generation. I'm realistic and I'm positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u11	Numbers give other readings that can be made to the comenence of all of us, but in our opinion it's a lie that we're getting out of the crisis. The social selection is becoming more and more intense, and is being given to a new and striking phenomenon, that of a worker who cannot have a job and cannot get out of preligation. 1700,000 unemployed, as I said, more than 2,000 unemployed were the same as when you took the presidential power, from them 64 percent of the length of the duration. Almost 500,000 people in the danger of poverty and extortion. Thousands of out-of-the-way, lost jobs in this sector of industry, the shortest part of new contracts, the partial labour, the presbytery conditions, and the reductions of pay. And this leaves us in a state or in a way; that poverty and prevention are visibly rising and stabilizing in this Middle-century Autonomy. "Mir a la realidad sin telarañas," said Eduardo Galeano, who had just died. Let us look at it; no employment has been created, and those which have been created are not of quality, and the inequality of society is increasing. Although we share them, they are not our words, they are the words of the new chief of Empedings, and they are the reforming and reforming of it, and others the source of that condition. We only hope that the conduct of a whole government has not hitherto been so. And we say this because we think it's the right thing to say at the moment, Mr. Draghi suggests to Mr. Rajoy another reform of work, and we know how things that work, which in Brussels, take place in Madrid and Gaste, so that this is what we ask you to break up your policy and your courage, your logic. Less propaganda, and it's a commitment to start with real jobs and industrial policies that we're asking you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, I know the difficulties. Now, to use numbers according to their own nature, no, they are numbers, numbers, and what the cold numbers say. I've accepted them and I've made realistic predictions. I'm telling you the truth, and it'll take us a long time to get back to the state before the crisis is over, and I insist on the situation in front of the shift and crisis when I tell when I'm about to leave the crisis and to get all the jobs we need. The difficulty is, but we're on our way and it's the right way. I do not agree with your eternal and pessimistic attitude, and with your eternal intricate discourse. The growth of economics requires confidence, which is our business; You can practice your confidence and encourage it and expand it. The reality is that the Basque industry is highly competitive, exports increase, consumption increases, companies invest and start creating jobs, and the government's effort is to bet on new sectors that will enable us to maintain industrial and economic capacity. To be realistic is to help businesses and the economy create jobs, to be realistic is to plan for a competitive economy tomorrow, based on industry and high-value services that guarantee the country's future. I'm realistic and I'm positive.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, the Id of Mount Caeva Euska Sociialists made to the president about the work craft." Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. Socialists believe that only a decent job, a decent salary gives us free citizens to have a decent life. And they have heard it many times, and they also heard it at the last plenary session, in November, on employment and labour poverty. And in that plenary, in this House, we instruct the Government to carry out a specific study on labour poverty, so that the Government can take specific and effective measures to remedy that situation as soon as possible. We Socialists considered it very urgent, so in our motion for a resolution it was within three months. The group that supports the Government has asked us for an extension of the deadline to six months, the deadline is about to expire and we want to know what the Government has done in relation to this study, because, so far, the only novelty we have encountered or heard from your Government, Mr Lehendakari, is that you now find reasons to smile – I just say that there are positive economic signs – but the truth is that, if we stick to the Eustat reports, to the Eustat surveys, we see that there are thousands and thousands of Basque citizens who find no reason to smile, because according to those data, since 2007 the number of adults living in households where none of their members work, and in the case of women has tripled. The long-term unemployment rate has increased tenfold, the unemployed working more than 45 hours a week, with less wages, despite having high unemployment rates. The underemployed population, at the same time, works less than 15 hours a week, and that has tripled. And we cannot let even right now that, as you yourself said, the global outlook is much better, the government remains inactive and does not take advantage of these global circumstances to improve and consolidate quality employment and, in addition, to break the gap of inequality that is being established between us. That is why, in that November monograph, we shared with the whole House the need to draw up this report. That is why we are asking you today what specific actions your Government is going to take to combat labour poverty in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Mendia, you know the actions undertaken by the government, the agreement to boost the productive economy and job creation, signed with your party, the items incorporated in the 2014 and 2015 Budgets, approved with your party, the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery, approved and evaluated with your party, the new tax system and the anti-fraud plan, also approved with your party. You know the Employment Plan approved in January 2014 and which has 258 million euros this year. It has already begun to bear fruit. Today we will know the data of the first trimester of the PRA, and in relation to the previous, the last trimester of last year, will not offer – as is usual in each first trimester – the desired results, due to the seasonal effect of Christmas, but in relation to a year ago it will show that there are 8,000 fewer unemployed in Euskadi. The unemployment rate has fallen from 15,5 % to 14,8 %. The trend is positive, Mrs Mendia. Interannually, the occupation in Euskadi increases, the impact of unemployment is reduced in parallel, the positive evolution is common in the three territories. We recognize the difficulties of job creation despite growth, especially the difficulties of quality employment. That is why we have assumed and developed the agreements of this House. The trend of exit from the crisis is confirmed; we are not in recession, but in growth. For the first time since the beginning of the crisis, employment is generated, little by little, but let us not despise every little. Every job is important, and we have advanced by 8,000. Growth brings employment, sustained growth brings its consolidation into quality employment, and I also think personally as lehendakari, that we must insist – and so do the messages – on youth employment, on the effort also for stable contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u19	President. I am well aware of the effort that the Basque Socialists have made in this legislature to bet on this country, to continue with the policies that we initiated in the socialist government and that laid not only the foundations for the modernity of this country, but also the opportunity for Euskadi to win the future when we got out of the crisis. Now that thanks to the international concert – not to the efforts of the governments, because the barrel of Brent is cheaper or that Spain is financed at a lower price it is not by the government either of Mariano Rajoy or of you, Mr Lehendakari – we are in better condition to get out of the crisis, but, really, that requires ambitious policies, ambitious policies. And I know what my effort group has done, but we do not know exactly what ambitious policies you are doing, beyond compliance with the budget agreement or not. Because, for example, in a policy that we consider key, which is innovation, what we do know is that when we were in the government, which was a very bad time of crisis, with a very bad time of economic income, we were able to bet on innovation and we were on the European average. Now that, thanks to our efforts, we have better taxation, governments have more revenue collection and there may be a greater commitment to innovation, we find that Euskadi is below the European average. That's what we found. Therefore, what we insist upon you, Mr Lehendakari, is that you approve, that you take advantage of these favourable economic circumstances to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Mendia, how do you jump from job poverty to innovation, to investment in innovation! I don't know how it bothers you, every time I refer to the shared effort and the shared effort with the Basque Socialist Party, it bothers you, and you have to give priority in your speeches to the Socialist Party's effort. If it is a shared effort, recognize that in that shared effort we are others, also the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. Look, you're talking about growing poverty, but the study of "Atlas de la crisis" by the Spanish Higher Scientific Research Centre has just certified the economic and social soundness of Euskadi. Euskadi has been the least vulnerable territory in the face of the crisis, eight of the ten least affected localities in the crisis are Basques. It is the result of a collective effort, to which I refer permanently, also with other groups in the House, which we must maintain, especially now that we are out of the crisis and that the environment is indeed more favourable. But the environment, we also help make it more favorable for all those who participate in that shared effort. Our proposal is to continue to ensure social cohesion, essential health, education and protection services for the most disadvantaged, a priority issue, maintaining the Basque model of social protection and also supporting the enterprise, the real economy, in all sectors. I have asked the business world for its commitment to job creation, confidence in the economic future, which the entrepreneurs themselves have already reflected this week. I have asked for involvement in generating investment and employment after the effort they have made in renewing equipment, in opening up new markets, in maintaining employment, an effort that we recognize. I am also doing so in Parliament today: the shared effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Eusula Cia Euscal Group to the president, about the evolution of the Euscal industry." Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning. Lehendakari, we are now facing the end of this legislature – two thirds of it has already been consumed – a legislature that, as has been said here in the last speeches, has been difficult, complicated, by the economic crisis. But I also have to tell you that the feeling we have is that we expected much more from this government. We hoped much more to modernize this country and to revive it, thanks, precisely and as has been acknowledged here, to our best position of entry into the economic crisis. A few days ago, lehendakari, you, so little given to it, drew a smile saying you have the conviction that we are in the right economic, social and political direction. I'm glad of this, lehendakari. I'm glad that's the way it is. Moreover, you advanced that the industry would experience a sustained growth of 1.8% for the year as a whole, but that it will reach 2.2 in the last quarter. And he said that, precisely, the industry will mark a sustainable growth profile. Just a few days later we knew the real data, lehendakari, and industrial production, which should be pulling from the whole Basque economy, not only does it not grow, but last February was a 1.8 less than the same month of the previous year. That is why I ask you, lehendakari, because we know that industry is the key to growth in Euskadi: are you going to present a new forecast for the Basque industry sector or are you continuing to understand that it will achieve growth as it expressed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Quiroga, the Basque Government is maintaining a cautious attitude in growth forecasts because – I insist, I said this too – it will cost time and effort to get out of the crisis. I would like to return to the data before the year 2007 from night to morning, from day to day. Forecasts are not made on the basis of timely data or short-term data, on trends and on structural data. The Basque Government therefore maintains its growth forecasts of 2.3% for the general economy and 1.8% for industry. We keep this forecast. I would like to remind you that the Basque industry has already grown by 1% last year. The economic reports of the financial institutions, all of them, support all the forecasts of the Basque Government. They are even more positive than those of the Basque Government itself. These reports show that the Basque company is using credit to finance investments, and this means confidence and growth. You refer to the equipment in your question and say that only 0.8% were returned. Well, I give you the real data. I remind you that they had fallen by 7.2% from the previous year (7.2%). Under this heading the activity of machinery and equipment, with great weight in the Basque industry, has grown by 2,3 %. Rail transport equipment is also integrated, with a drop of 8.9%. However, orders portfolios such as CAF or Talgo support growth forecasts. In addition, the Government maintains its Renove machine-tool programmes, as well as aid for financing and opening up new markets. Today, the media reports that the demands of the Basque machine-tool have increased by 39% in this first quarter thanks to the recovery of the Spanish economy as a whole and also to the impulse of the United States; a market that we are also trying to open with my own presence in the United States. Therefore, we maintain our forecasts. The Basque industry is showing positive developments and will be able to grow by an estimated 1.8% this year. I insist that we are prudent; last year reality exceeded the Government's predictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, I did not ask you this question with the intention of bittering your smile, welcome be. Moreover, what was worrying us was that the Basque Government, in view of the forecasts of the Spanish economy, was not resettling and modifying the numbers regarding the growth of the Basque economy. I understand that you were looking for a moment that would be better for you from the electoral point of view, but we were worried because we understand that, indeed, the improvement of the Spanish economy, as you yourself have said here, is making a pull for the Basque economy. And this is precisely what I wanted to focus on this morning, and it is that after talking to different entrepreneurs, people who are, precisely... industrialists and agents of the sector, in recent times there are some elements of frustration in all of them common, and one is the fact that Euskadi emerges later from this crisis. That didn't fit into the forecasts, it didn't fit into the forecasts because it's never been like this. And that, lehendakari, from our point of view, is the result of the attitude that this Government is maintaining during these years. That low-profile government attitude in which you have made the decision to get carried away. Let go of the Spanish economy, which pulls the Spanish economy. And that has consequences, and we are seeing it in the indices, those indices that are putting the Basque Country not forward, as we have always been, but diluting ourselves. And I'm going to give you some of the data that are reflecting this: industrial production index, the fifths by the tail; activity index of the services sector, second by the tail; general retail trade index, the last; exports, the fifths by the tail; imports, the sixths by the tail. And you'll say, "Yes, but with other figures." Indeed, but we should be far above, lehendakari, for all the skills we have, for all the capacity we have in Euskadi. That's why, lehendakari, I don't think it's time for low-profile governments, but it's time for governments to take a step forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Quiroga, in the forum in which I intervened and in which I referred to the smile in the positive look, I also said that I do not like the comparisons with what are the data of Spain because, do we not contribute to the improvement of the Spanish economy? Look, I'm not going into those comparisons. I can talk about the deficit target, I can talk about the lower debt, I can talk about the debt with respect to GDP, but I'm not going to get into that. As lehendakari, I bet for a growth of the Basque economy in the right direction, in a productive economic model different from the rest of the Spanish state as we have so many times said; different productive economic model. Hence also the characteristics of the exit from the crisis. This country made industrial policy 30 years ago and today we have better endured the crisis. We are taking advantage of these years, in which the world economy is reconfigured, to re-establish another industrial policy appropriate to the new times. Today the challenge is to help our industry overcome a global crisis that has slowed the economy as a whole. From the Basque Government we are promoting programmes to incorporate new technologies, new sectors and market opportunities. We're supporting the company every day. That's our effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team had made to the president, the secretary of peace and co-operation with one condemned for terrorism." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr Lehendakari, the Government, unfortunately, has recently met with few recommendable people. In recent times he has met with Etxerat, an association of relatives of ETA prisoners, who – and this is the important thing – still does not condemn the terrorist gang and without demanding its definitive and unconditional dissolution, and he has also met with Rafa Díez Usabiaga, convicted of terrorist crimes, who has neither condemned ETA nor demanded its dissolution. In the case of Díez Usabiaga, according to various sources, the interview attempted to obtain the approval of the leader abertzale to the road map of the Basque Government in prison matters, in which many of its contents are not the competence of the autonomous executive. In any case, you have to justify here today the reasons for these meetings and what their objective is, indeed, if you made any kind of commitment to the prisoner convicted of terrorism Díez Usabiaga, who explains to us what they talked about, what they told you, what agreements they reached, what agreements they intend to reach in the future, or whether they took advantage of to do political and democratic pedagogy. I have to say that those meetings seem absolutely regrettable to us, but, in any case, once they have occurred, you have to explain why these meetings took place and what you or Mr. Jonan Fernández told these people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, you use, unfortunately... on two occasions, one to refer to unrecommendable persons, and, unfortunately, you also have your judgment made, but, despite having your judgment made, you ask me. Well, I'll get back to you. No compromise was made, not even raised. The interview was not to propose commitments or to acquire them, Mr Maneiro. The aim was to inform and listen, transfer the opinion of the Basque Government on peace and coexistence, prison policy and reintegration, and also to listen and receive opinions. The views of the Government are reflected in the Peace and Co-existence Plan, the Hitzeman programme and the Zuzen Bidean proposal, and have been explained in this Parliament and have been explained to you, Mr Maneiro. In a democratic State, visiting a prisoner is a normal, legal and constitutional activity. The visit is within a framework of legality and normality. The abnormal thing is not to talk. What is desirable is dialogue as a factor in the transformation of reality. And, indeed, dialogue does not solve problems per se, but facilitates them. Dialoging does not mean or legitimize terrorism, it delegitimate it. Dialoging delegitimizes terrorism. It is difficult for you to understand this reasoning, but look at the most important news in recent weeks: dialogue in Colombia, dialogue in Iran, dialogue in Cuba. Our society also needs a lot of dialogue, talking and listening. Talk to each other and listen to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. I believe in dialogue. In dialogue between democratic political parties. Among decent people, who in this particular case condemn ETA terrorism. I think so. Mr. Lehendakari, did you take advantage of the government to tell or remind these people what crimes they have committed? Did you remind these people what the current law says? Did they remind these people that what they have to do is to serve the sentence that was imposed on them? Did they remind these people of the pain of the victims of terrorism? Did they remind these people of the requirements perfectly established in the current law to, for example, access to prison benefits? Moreover, did you put as a condition to meet with these people who clearly condemn ETA terrorism? Did they demand it? This, I understand, is an ethically fully consumable requirement, that before meeting with an association, before meeting with a prisoner, demand its clear condemnation of the acts committed. This is what we're saying. And this, indeed, was not done by the Government. That is why it seems to me that it is absolutely regrettable that these meetings have taken place. That these meetings had taken place and that the Government had not told all these people all this: to remember what they did, to remember the legality in force and to do so democratic pedagogy. That is what the Basque Government should have done, if it had been necessary to meet with these people, indeed, unrecommendable. You know perfectly well that all these people still do not condemn ETA and continue to justify ETA's criminal actions. That is why I find it absolutely unacceptable that these meetings could have taken place. Mr. Lehendakari: What about the victims of terrorism? They feel despised. They feel insulted by these encounters. They feel abandoned by this Government. Why don't you meet more with the victims of terrorism? Why don't you treat the victims of terrorism better? This is what you should care about, how the victims of terrorism find themselves, what you are asking for, and try to care for them more and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, of everything you say that the Basque Government should have told these people and you believe that you have not said, have you really read the Hitzeman proposal? Has the proposal Zuzen Bidean been read? Has the Basque Government's Peace and Co-existence Plan been read to know whether the proposal itself, the plan, integrates everything you say that we have not told those people with whom we have met? I must tell you that again resorting to the tinkering hand that we care about prisoners more than the victims is unacceptable and intolerable. It's a fallacy that hurts the victims themselves. He sends them the message that they don't matter. And that only causes pain in the victims. And in politics, Mr. Maneiro, not everything is worth it. The use of victims as a partisan weapon and boldness, in addition to being shameful, is a factor of revictimization. You're helping to get the victims out of the partisan contest. And it has at its disposal the document "The relationship of the Basque Government with the victims throughout the current legislature", thus entitled. If you read it, you will be able to see that no area of the management of the Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence occupies as much effort, as much dedication, as much activity and as much personal as that of the victims. This is because the victims represent a priority and a commitment to the Basque Government, to the Basque Government and to the previous ones. Mr Maneiro, Mr Díez Usabiaga, I believe that it has also been characterized by defending the dialogue for the resolution of a problem of coexistence, also in a bid for the steps that the abertzale left should take. Can you remind me of the approach your political party leader, Mrs Rosa Díez, could take in relation to the concept of a dialogued end of violence, of which she herself was a defender when she was a member of the Basque Government at the time when the dialogued end of violence was approved? Let's get to that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Antalization by Natalia Rojo Sozana Sozia Sozialist to the president, about his attitude to "franking." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u39	Thank you, President, and good morning, Lehendakari, counselors. Mr Lehendakari, we Socialists today would like to leave this House knowing, at last, clearly and unambiguously, what position the Basque Government stands for on the fracking technique in a specific scenario, Euskadi, what is your Government's position on the application of the hydrocarbon law that is already on the track by the Spanish Government and what is the Basque Government's energy stake for the future of our country. And we trust, as I said, at last, to start listening to clear answers, defined bets and concrete projects that define policy in this sector of the Basque Government. That is why we are presenting this question today, because we have been listening to contradictory statements for too long, depending on who speaks and in which institution. We have attended political debates in different forums in which the political groups of the Basque Nationalist Party have signed and starred agreements denying the development of this technique and even speaking out of voice of the platform that denies it. And in the meantime, his Government intends to do so in a secret way, but it is moving forward, clashing head-on with the popular legislative initiative that has managed to slow down more time than would have been desirable in this Parliament. The Socialists have some certainties and, of course, we have some doubts about Euskadi's energy needs, about fracking, about the environment, but, of course, I will start by clearly recalling our position. The Basque Socialists are opposed to the granting of any permit for the exploration/exploitation of energy resources on which full environmental guarantees are not available. That is why we want the ILP, which has arrived with the signature of more than 100,000 Basque citizens, to regulate the extraction of hydrocarbons within our competence, offering all environmental guarantees and eliminating any present or future risks to the environment and health. Fracking and the companies that use these techniques have not just offered guarantees, and hence the refusal to the blank cheque, the refusal to launch a technique that does not offer these guarantees. We are aware and aware of the position of the courts, we know that we cannot ban it in a generic way, but what they allow and, of course, do not prohibit the courts, is to set all the limits that make this technique possible. It is therefore in your hands, in those of your Government, that you are complying with the law, putting in place environmental guarantees and acting in accordance with your powers. And here comes the question: what do you want to do about this issue: yes or no? Because you have remained on this subject in the "pensioner medium" position, which is no longer possible. One will be your position, always legitimate, let us hope that argued, studied and analyzed, but what we want to know is what your position is. Our position, as I said, is clear. We understand that it is relevant, because it will ensure that the demand for thousands of citizens is met. What we have not finished knowing is what this Government thinks, and that is what we want to clarify. Because you, Mr. lehendakari, as we have told you on many occasions, ran for office raised the flag of "Fracking ez!" at the head of the demonstration. The flag that so much waved in the campaign changed it when it arrived in Ajuria Enea for a red carpet that today puts for companies dedicated to the hydraulic fracture. His Government continued projects that were under way, promoted publicity campaigns favourable to this technique and, as a last gesture, accompanied, through his party, the Rajoy Government in the legislation that would give free access to fracking throughout Spain. The contribution of the Basque Nationalist Party on the subject of the hydrocarbon law is that additional taxes should be established to compensate the affected municipalities economically. The Socialists do not want compensation, what we want is for such compensation not to be necessary and not to be talked about. Why should there be compensation if, in your opinion, and as you explain, not only are there no risks but all are benefits? And he said that we have certainties, some, about our energy weakness. We are working in this House on a paper – which, of course, could go faster – which we hope will result in a more accurate diagnosis of shortcomings and also of opportunities. At the moment we know that we have an external dependence that exceeds 95% of our energy consumption. We know that we must reduce that dependence and look for alternatives that arise from our environment. The last legislature approved the Energy Strategy 2020, came to this House, agreed and agreed. Studies were proposed and caution was exercised. I myself tabled a resolution on fracking, calling for all environmental guarantees for exploration and exploitation projects. But from then on, we have not had a single guarantee of security, and that lack of certainty, along with the signs of bubble punctures in the United States, which make us suspicious of the interest of companies to enter unexploited markets like ours, of course, put us in doubt and put us on guard. Therefore, we have certainties, we have doubts, many, and in that scenario we set a position, what we do not know is the position of the Basque Government. Because, I insist, those who came to the elections promising to ban fracking were you, who warned of the arrival of the apocalypse because the socialists analyzed possibilities and risks of this technique in the last legislature today neither analyze nor have doubts, add their vote to those who have openly proclaimed that their law is to open the doors to fracking. I defend that whoever wants this technique defends it, it seems to me good, I believe in freedom of thought, but a reasoned, clear and transparent thought. What I think is right and fair for Basque citizens is that they say, that they say what they want to do, that they say what they think, that they say what they stand for, but that they say it in this Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies. Because it is not fair to listen to the words that are said, ambiguous about fracking, and that then their deputies in the Congress of Deputies vote with the People's Party in favour of the hydrocarbon law, that we all know what they are trying to do, and that they want to give free passage to fracking, they want to give free passage to prospecting. You have an energy model that has nothing to do with what you say in the election campaign and what you see in public conferences and forums and, at the time of truth, you, politically, are betting on fracking. It is your position; I do not share it, but I think it is legitimate for you to defend it. What I don't think is fair is that they lie to the citizen or, rather than lie, they hide the information. Mrs Tapia has come to this Parliament on different occasions, at the request of the opposition and on other occasions at the request of her own, and people who work in the EVE have come and work in line with the Basque Nationalist Party, and the line on which her Government is committed is becoming clearer. And what I think is fair is that they say it clearly, defend it and finally explain to us how they are going to do it, what budget it entails, what the lines are, what the projects are and when they are going to start doing it. Because what I refuse is that from a government one thing is said and the opposite is done. Because the issue is not even in the sense of the PNV vote in Congress, the issue is that that party, its party, governs in Euskadi, and that decision in Madrid affects Basque citizens, and a lot, and you are beginning to be the biggest and most active collaborators of the People's Party in the politics that will benefit fracking. However, you have endeavoured to delay the ILP, but there are already very few days to see exactly what the PNV wants in the form of amendments to the popular legislative initiative, and of course we are eager to know them. The travelling companions of each one choose them each, and, of course, everything is legitimate if done within democratic values, but when one is at home, when one rules and has political responsibilities, one should explain the reason, motivation, consequences and steps to follow of what will condition Basque politics in an area in which many citizens have already said they are radically against. That's why I'm asking for clarity. The Basque Socialists are not going to promote a law that is not useful and, of course, that is not legal because it regulates what it cannot regulate, but we will be and are active agents to demand the maximum of environmental guarantees that prevent in practice this technique in Euskadi. I would now like to know what your Government thinks, and, given that your adviser has not clarified anything to us on multiple occasions when you have come to the House, we want to know what your position is as lehendakari, as head of the Government on this matter and, in particular, about the condition that the Basque Nationalist Party's oil law will have for the Basque Nationalist Party for the whole of Spain, because it could not be understood the PNV vote in the Congress of Deputies with a different position when you govern in Basque, because that would already be an even greater scandal. What I think is that the time has come to speak clearly. You are forced to take a stand because there is a popular legislative initiative on the table. They are increasingly keen to say what they think because concrete initiatives are coming to the Basque Parliament (a deadline for amendments to an initiative which Mr Maeztu put forward about fracking was just yesterday). But when it's time to talk in court, when it's time to say yes or no, which is what this Parliament is asking... No one is going to criticize your position beyond what some of us ideologically defend, but what we can criticize is that you never speak clearly about this issue. And it is true that in the end we are all prisoners of our deeds and of our words. And today it's all written, social networks are what they are, blogs are what they are and you, Mr. lehendakari, no matter how much you refuse to recognize it, you started an autonomous election campaign denying exploitation and exploration if the Basque Government led you, and today we are as we are, and that's what you should explain to the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u40	Thank you, Miss Rojo. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Rojo, as you said at the end of the speech, everything is perfectly written; indeed, I would tell you to read the speech and what the lehendakari said in full campaign, complete, from the first word of the sentence to the final point, do not stay in the middle coma, please, because that, of course, upsets the whole intervention. You ask me to clarify the position of the Basque Government and then mix it with different interventions. I will tell you the position of the government. This is not the first time that you have asked us to do so, and as I insist, everything is written, as you have said, in the last of my speeches – to say only in the last one – in committee, I believe that the position of the Basque Government has been made clear to me. A decision and a position that, you have no doubt, is always guided by the public interest, by technical endorsement and the utmost respect for environmental requirements. You will not believe that you are the ultimate guarantor and your party of environmental conditions. Everyone in this House, without exception, I believe that we are, of course, defenders of those guarantees. There is nothing new about what I am saying now, but given the concern that is being raised about the possible scenario – as you said – by the new hydrocarbon law, which is still being discussed – I would like to remind you – in the Congress of Deputies and which still has a long parliamentary road ahead, I would like to highlight some substantial aspects of that debate and of the decision-making and decision-making which, in our case, as an executive, is the responsibility of the Basque Government. First, to begin with, this Government, but also the former, has an obligation to investigate, know and value the resources, both natural and energy, available to the country in this case. It is an obligation of each and every Government. I would like to remind you that in the previous legislature, when Mr Patxi López ruled, that was also the case. Therefore, his always clear stance, well, has also been undergoing changes, as the rest of the parties can suffer. Knowing resources and evaluating them means investigating, of course, because without investigating and knowing what there is, taking aprioristic positions and making decisions is always dangerous. We advocate investigating to know and know to decide, and I repeat exactly what I said in the last of my interventions in the Commission: "That is the highest premise that guides us and guides the task with all the tools we have for it in this Government. And it would, of course, be irresponsible to renounce this knowledge." They have recently declared this in the Bundestag, Germany, and France itself, that until a few days ago it was absolutely against doing anything and has recently said that it is irresponsible not to know what is happening, because knowing is to be able to make a decision. For more than 32 years now, the Basque Energy Agency has been authorized to create SHESA, the hydrocarbon society, as a tool of our self-government, to explore – exploit, where appropriate – liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons. And SHESA, the trajectory you have made on that path, of course, has been exemplary. Your trajectory cherishes a great knowledge and a good to do that you cannot deny me, of course. Thirdly, you have referred to the argument, to the vote in favour of the PNV in the hydrocarbon law that is being debated in the Congress of Deputies. This supposed support has not been such. Read the transcript of the commission. The project is still in processing, processing and discussion, and so it will be in the coming months. We hope that at this time there will be an opportunity to negotiate issues on which Euskadi plays a lot, as is the role in the gas market. And, of course, I again withdraw that the bill is being processed, and we are going to work on that debate and on those negotiating possibilities to improve that law. In any case, Mrs Red, I think you should analyse the draft with a little more rigour, because the hydrocarbon law that is being processed is nothing more than a modification of the existing law and where the issue of hydraulic fracturing is not touched. It is only intended to establish a system under which hypothetical beneficiaries, derived from a hypothetical source of supply of any kind, whose ownership resides in the State, are distributed. Of course, I feel that you do not like this subject, because we consider that, in any case, any kind of resource, whether energy or not, by which a private person will benefit, we understand that it would be interesting for the municipalities in the environment to also benefit. Fourthly, our position is very clear with regard to the extraction of unconventional natural gas, its analysis, its research, its exploration, as it is with regard to any industrial activity. All possible alternatives should be analysed, their possible impacts – economic and, of course, environmental – should be assessed, all regulations respected, knowledge and decision-making made accordingly. And the technical teams of the Government, in the light of the relevant studies, will have to consider whether the current state of the technologies that exist makes possible and secure the possible research, exploration and exploitation, each at its own time. We must ensure that that is the case and, if so, put any of the situations into practice. But I insist, we have to start a series of studies and we are in a very preliminary situation. You talk to me like we're on the verge of starting an unconventional gas extraction, and that's not the case. I want to draw your attention to the fact that you are talking about exploitation – with "t" – and we are still in a phase not previous, but preliminary. We are doing environmental impact studies that would, if necessary, allow for a possible exploration. But we are taking the debate to a place where it is not – I told you in the committee. It is possible that this environmental impact study, brought to public attention and analysed by all stakeholders, would say that this is impossible even, and the debate will be over. Then let's not go to step three when we're still at step zero. We are all going to be rigorous and we are going to take the debate to where it is. Neither in legislation, nor in the Spanish State, nor in Europe, is such hydrocarbon exploration prohibited. There are directives and regulations that regulate how to do it, what respect for environmental rules must be given, what recommendations are made. And all this is being considered by this Government. You are also insistently talking about an integrated environmental assessment, as if it were a new mantra. And in this case I would like to remind you that, not from this government alone, but from all the previous ones, from the Basque Energy Agency, an environmental impact assessment of these characteristics is being systematically applied to all hydrocarbon projects, each and every one of them. In short, therefore, we are not in a situation where we are voting in favour of the Spanish State's hydrocarbon law, because we are still in debate. And as far as the action of the Basque Government is concerned, we are evaluating and carrying out a rigorous environmental impact assessment. We're at that stage, not at any other stage. Let's make all the decisions at the right time. Please review all the speeches we have had, and this has been our position. And, of course, I told you at the time, in the debate on popular legislative initiative, obviously the Basque Nationalist Party and the group that represents it will put the corresponding amendments, will analyse their position and the government will analyse what this House says, of course, but today our position has been consistent throughout this time. And please don't take us to the exploitation phase and don't confuse, we're not there, far away or far away. We are carrying out the rigorous environmental impact study, as the whole House is demanding, analysing all the possibilities that exist, and perhaps that leads us to a negative one. Then we do not debate and we do not take the debate to a place where it is not. And let's not confuse the terms. With regard to energy dependence – to finish – we do indeed have an impressive energy dependence. And we therefore have an obligation as a government to analyse possible resources in terms of both renewable energy, hydrocarbons, gas in this case and transition, which I have also said on more than one occasion, as a transitional model, and energy efficiency measures that will make us less energy-consuming. And those are the three pillars of the Basque energy strategy, and they have been for a long time, we have not modified them; adapted to the existing technology, yes, but those are the three pillars at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u43	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs Tapia, the fracking debate, you can tell me what administrative time you are in, but what political time is the fracking debate, even if you don't like it, is not marked by the PNV. So, to the rest of the opposition we can worry about your ambiguity, and you keep insisting over and over again; no, it's that we're not in another exploitation, it's that you never answer again. Is the Basque Nationalist Party in favour, yes or no, of the exploitation of fracking after the exploration? Because, look, I can have many flaws, of course, many. I have read all the speeches, because I have participated in all the debates since this issue came out in the Basque Parliament six years ago. I have also read the speeches of his party mate in the Congress of Deputies on the day of the vote in the Congress. I already know that the law in Madrid has a process of debate, but the position that the Basque Nationalist Party has marked, read the entire intervention of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party on the subject: it has made meridianly clear that the Basque Nationalist Party is in favour of the oil law that Mr Soria carries in Congress coming out as the People's Party wants; and it will be legitimate politically, but say so, stop spoiling. It is that you have to make political decisions and you have to tell the citizen what you think of this country, it is that we ask them nothing more. And you say "know to decide." Of course, we also know that nuclear energy is solvent and we do not want it. Neither do you. We already know that fracking... , that under the ground there's gas, but we don't want the technique, because we know what's going on. And now you're talking to me about France. It's just that France says... what does all the studies say after the fracking operation in the United States? What do they say? It is that we begin to read only what interests us and to take a concrete and responsible approach we have to read everything, but everything of everyone. It is true that Mr. Patxi López went to the United States, the famous picture of the helmet and said what he said, of course, and that is why he understood that he had to try to study what there was. But it's just that since Mr. Lopez was in the United States today there's a lot more information than we had at first. It is that all scientific and technical reports say otherwise. But you were in the opposition and now you're in the government, and that's what you always do. But in the meantime, his colleagues from Oion, in Rioja Alavesa, have tabled an amendment in the mouth of "Fracking ez!" which says what it says. And they're his party, not mine, they're his. And you, I think you have to start giving an answer. On the other hand, I am not the ultimate guarantor of the environment, but I think I worry more than you; I do have that clear, and here I speak as Natalia Red on a personal level, I am no longer going to join my group. Of course, it is this group that defends the Vitoria Mountains, and the councillor of this government, which says that it gives it exactly the same as what this Parliament says and what the Foral Chamber of Álava says, because it is not going to fulfil the parliamentary mandate. I do not know who is more concerned or who is less concerned; I believe that more the Socialist Party, and more respect for parliamentary decisions. You, when you rule, try to do what you want, and when you're in the opposition, you always promise things that you don't fulfill. And to see what I have said about Mr Urkullu's statements in the election campaign, I recommend, above all, that Mr Lehendakari read a letter to the director who appears today in El Correo – page 32 – of a citizen who writes and begins his letter to the director saying: "There will be no exploration or exploitation of the underground on fracking in the Basque Country". That is what Mr Lehendakari said in campaign before the last autonomous elections with his usual solemnity. The passage of time has given sufficient perspective to determine that in the distribution of papers the lehendakari was reserved the role of 'poli' good, while the councilwoman of Development and Competitiveness was assigned the role of 'poli' bad, as demonstrated by some manifestations and subsequent events. Of the first, according to the councilwoman – intercommissioned – "...there is no negative evidence about the use of this technique", the same councilwoman who had previously said that she did not agree with the development of fracking. More: "The Basques will have the cheapest gasoline if we finally get gas or oil. Both manifestations agree on the idea of treating us as functional illiterates. On the facts, a couple of questions." Then he starts talking about the subject of Canadian companies and ends up saying: "Another story is that of the lehendakari, who from his unfulfilled promise has adopted a low profile, letting the bad cop face it." Look, Mr Lehendakari, at the issue of fracking, I think it is as important as everyone in this Parliament. If the Socialist Group has addressed the speech to you, it is because we have heard Mrs Tapia on many occasions and she does not finish saying what her Government's position is. And we understood that you, as the most responsible, are the one who should already respond to what they are going to do. We understand and believe that Mrs Tapia's role is legitimate, but we believe that you again slip the bundle with the theme of fracking. We will see the amendments, but the Basque Nationalist Party, in Madrid, with the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u44	Thank you, Miss Rojo. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u45	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, as we reiterate the arguments again, I'm going to have to repeat mine, too. First of all, I insist, rather than reading the letter to today's director, that we can agree more or less, and totally respectable, of course, read what the lehendakari said, please, from the first word to the final point, that I have told him to read it only to the coma that interests him. Read it full, and don't read me the letter to the director, but the lehendakari's statement. That, first of all. Secondly, we were speaking in that famous committee, which seems to me to be not speaking clearly enough – I think it is, but, well, it seems not to be, we were talking about a series of studies and you have made reference to one, one that appears in the United States, the last, that I have read, by the way, they are also read by this Government, all of them, and there is nothing forceful or overly enlightening. But there are a lot of studies, and we analyze them all, because we are as interested as you are. I've loved that you're more environmentalist than I am. And based on what? What measures you more environmentalist than me? Because I'd love to know, I'm a maniac, I'm an engineer, and I like to know a series of measurements. Then you will tell me what that statement is based on. It says, "The Socialist Party makes more environmental decisions than the PNV." Well, and besides, you're more than me. Great. You tell me based on what, because, of course, I don't know what it's based on. It is impossible to make a statement of these characteristics. Of course, strict, zero. If your whole speech has been as rigorous as that statement, then we will not be able to believe anything you have said. Thirdly, during the meetings that have taken place in the Committee on the Environment – at which I was last present – there are opinions and opinions in favour of and against the hydraulic fracturing of different technologies that are being produced. Totally respectable, because in that we had stayed and that is the calm debate that needs to be held, that is what we need to talk about. And since Mr. Patxi López was there with the helmet, as you well said, until today, what has this government devoted itself to? Well, to do what I had to do. Conduct a rigorous environmental study of a possible exploration, if appropriate and decided. But for that we have to do a series of procedures. It's not enough for me to come here and make a statement. I, as a Government, in this case representing the Government, have an obligation to do that study. And that's what we've done. Step one. You like me to say the last one, but it's that first you have to do the first one. And that's where we're at. And it's not administrative processing or anything like that. That's what needs to be done, and a government has to do it. And the political position will be defined by each and every group throughout the ILP. You ask me as a government; neither as a member of the PNV, nor as a member of Parliament, nor are you asking me as a member of the Oion City Council, are you asking me as a government and I answer you as a government. We are in the midst of a debate in which scientific, technical, environmental and economic rigour should prevail in all its aspects, and we are prepared to do so. And that's what we're doing. And we will respect, as we have always done, because I have also received a great deal of attention. You tell me, "Respect the decisions of this Parliament." Have we not respected them? Are we not doing the environmental study that requires any action? Or do you intend us to make decisions by pulling out my finger and deciding what I want? I think we need to do rigorous studies, as is being done in the committee. That is our commitment. That's what we have to do. And, please, let's be a little strict. They are difficult decisions, yes, as you well said, but they are not worth half inks and from white to black there is a whole scale of grays to be valued, in what we are and under what conditions. I think we are people who know how to analyze, who know how to study and make decisions based on that study and that rigorous analysis. I insist. I don't think you want to be as rigorous as the statement you made about you and me. I think she wants to be rigorous with the studies being done. Let's do it. And please read the state hydrocarbon law, which does not refer to fracking, which refers to the amendment of the existing hydrocarbon law. Please analyze it with rigor and seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interadelation, made by the members of the Presidency Barbadillo EH Collector, as the principal political forces of Catalonia have agreed to produce the State of Catalonia." Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u47	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, our interference is accurate and correct: Let's see when we'll be able to determine the right of a career sheet. They've made a deal in Catalonia in order to create a free catalurian state, and we greet this career and congratulate the principal political parties in Catalonia, the Converncia and the Esquerá, just because they've been able to make that agreement. As has always happened, it has been owing to the constant impulse of civil society, but it has again been shown that even the conjunction of parties is necessary for the execution and direction of this process. We see, by chance, that in the last months we have seen the process, the process, the process of self-determination, is lost when the interests of the party prevail. We assume that the need of the career sheet for creating the EH Collectan State is greater than great. In the first place, Poppsula, because his government has shown him that he becomes an enemy to the political dialogue, that is, he is not ready to speak to anyone, nothing at all. But we do not believe that our affairs, the affairs of nations without state, end here, because the State, the Spanish State, does not admit that there is any other nation in it, and denies the right to decide for the strategic purpose. This state, the Spanish State, has no democratic offer for our people, nor for Catalonia. We have the same state, some and others, before us, that state which has no democratic offer; and, in our opinion, political debate is really indispensable to the production of new political treaties. And the Euscal Way proposal, which we placed in the public square, which was set up by the EH Collector, expresses that this political controversy is in progress, as well as in the Basque Country. And this is exactly what we are trying to push, and we also want a career page. The object of this traversal must be to create a free Basque State, which we think is the right of deciding the same course. So far, this debate, which has been translated into the framework within which we belong, in the Basque Autonomous Community, has been translated into a presentation of self-government which, in our view, basically had the objective of not being debated, precisely, and of not being able to reach political agreement. It has been intended to extend that phase over time so that such a political agreement does not occur. I have read from somewhere that in the PNV he liked what Ramón Jáuregui said in that speech and that there is a certain harmony with what was said then. Honestly, in EH Bildu we have much more attuned to what the other day said the lehendakari Juan José Ibarretxe. Let no one think amiss, it is not our intention to put the figure of the President Ibarchech against his party at all. And we say with all due respect, he said, that he has himself and his heart, as well as we, in the Jeltzad Party of the Euric, and that we respect him, not at all, but with his political thesis, in a certain way, we join, or at least are nearer. He stated, first, that the necessity of a democratic agreement is necessary; and this group asked him exactly what it was, and whether the consent of a political member is necessary to make this democratic treaty; and he said that the majority, the minority, is the necessity of a democratic agreement, and that the foundation of it is there. And we ask, too, whether the 48 parliamentary members of the legislature are sufficient for 75. Are 48 women parliamentarians out of 75 sufficient to consider a democratic agreement? Or does the PNV, the lehendakari, consider that this majority is insufficient to reach that agreement? The second step mentioned by the lehendakari Ibarretxe was that Basque society had to be asked. We know what each political party thinks, although we have not been able to know it in the self-government speech, but we know what each political party thinks, we know that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party are in favour of the right to decide and that they will never be in favour of it, as they themselves have stressed, and we think that there are other political parties, other formations, some in this House and others who are today outside this House, who are in favour of the right to decide in this country, but we do not yet know what people think, we want to ask you. We, EH Bildu, also want to ask the people, we want to know what the people think, in this case, the alavesas, the vizcaines, the gipuzcoans, we want to know what the country thinks about this issue. And, like the lehendakari Ibarretxe, we are also in favour of the attempt to negotiate until exhaustion with the Spanish State, an honest exercise of negotiation on our part, to demonstrate, basically, to the international concert that this Spanish State has no democratic will to accept what the Basques and Basques want to decide, and in this way, when this country, through its institutions, unilaterally declares independence, because it is what the Spanish State, like Catalonia, is going to adopt, at that time we are recognized as independent free states by the whole of Europe and other states. In that sense, we believe that perhaps it is time to get out of the drawer, from that drawer in which Mr Egibar has so well kept the proposal for a new statute, it is time perhaps to dust it. And we do not say from EH Bildu, much less, that this has to be the term station, but indeed, given that this has been approved by an absolute majority in this House, it may be the best starting point for us to start this way. And in this sense we also think that there are other instruments, such as Mr Ibarretxe himself provided, the Loyola drafts or even the very potentialities of the current Statute of Gernika, and of course there will certainly be more. In our opinion, EH Collector is the time for deciding our future, so that we have proposed three processes in a united process, and that is what we want in the whole of the Basque Country, as well as in Euskadin, to be able to live as a citizen. But we plan on another side, and want to decide everything, i.e., we want to determine how we want to live. Eta adibide zehatza jarriko dut: the day before yesterday, Draghi announced the next labor reform that is going to try to impose on us the Rajoy government, and we agree quite well in the critical evaluation that made of the previous labor reform councillor Toña yesterday. If we agree in this country and there is a sufficient majority that says that we are against those labour reforms that they want to impose on us, that they make our lives precarious and that they make social inequalities grow, why we do not decide here, we do not decide and we build our own framework of labour relations so that such labour reform cannot be implemented in this country. We're on the side of that choice, and we're also trying to stress the importance of the opportunity. We believe that this rhuchut, M. Ibarche said also, we who are now political representatives, have a great opportunity, which never has been in this country; we must take advantage, that if we do not take advantage of it, our despair will be great in the community. Eta oranez udal eta foru hautskundeak, éta batzuek pentsa dezakete "Hobe ondorenerako uztea". Bada, guk esaten dugu ezetz. Udal eta foru hauteskundeak arriskua izan daitezke, baina aukera ere bai; horregatik, argi eta garbi exacten dugu: on 25 May, neither a municipal government nor a foreign government against the right to decide in this country. We want and need municipal and outlaw governments in the hands of political forces committed to the right to decide, so that they become levers of the sovereignist process to be developed in the coming times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ray. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arraiz, you say, "I have read somewhere that PNV people are satisfied or feel recognized in what Mr. Ramón Jáuregui said here, in the Self-Government presentation." I too have read it, Mr Arraiz, and I have read it from a columnist in a media outlet. You say it, Mr. Arraiz, say it all, don't say "I've read somewhere that PNV people." No, say it all. And don't come here and play the game of saying, "I don't want to counter the lehendakari Ibarretxe with the Basque Nationalist Party," and you've swindled all your dating intervention to the lehendakari Ibarretxe. Mr. Eriz, seven months ago, in September last year, you made an important declaration in this legislature of general policy in the name of the Basque People in the name of the political Party. You put four words in a row and said: Nos vamos a mover. You put four words in it. That's what you said, right here, "Nos vamos a muver." You were engaged in economics and employments, even in peace and partnership, and in political future. I'll be honest with you. It's been seven months and I can't see that move. I didn't notice any movement. I don't think you've been following that offer you made. You're still in the same place where you were seven months ago, and today's interference is a clear proof of it. I'll have to repeat to you what I've told you over and over in front of this immobilism. One, we live a new political era, but Basque isn't born today, Mr. Ariz. Many people have contributed a great deal to the self-government of this people, to the welfare and development of this people. I think it's important to accept that, absence. It is essential to make a move from you on this first point. I will read you another sentence of yours in the discussion of the general policy I have mentioned at the beginning: "At least we need a Democratic Agenda to start talking about Euskal Autonomy in the Errel." Do we need a Democratic Age? It's been a long time since we've got a Democratic agenda, Mr. Erriz. At least, to talk about the Esquillian Autonomy in Er-Hornami. It's been a long time since we started talking about the Esquimia Er-Hornami. Not only this, but we've been making proposals for a long time ago, agreeing and making arrangements. The first state was admitted 80 years ago. The second was accepted almost 36 years ago. The proposal to independence was admitted in this legislature nearly 25 years ago. The new state was adopted 10 years ago. We've been talking about political futures and making proposals, and we've been working for a long time. The second idea, therefore, joined to the first: the escal road does not start from zero, we have made a channel of eupscals. You mention Catalonia; I have had several meetings with the President of Catalonia, and I know their way, its origin, its origin, and the cause of the present road, and I respect it as he knows ours and respects ours; Almost 36 years ago, the Esquimic Autonomia of Euskal. We've moved on that way, we've got institutions, we've got a economic pact, we've moved on in the self-engine, wantlessness. Catalonia started off the other road 35 years ago, and made another way until a few years ago. The history, the features, and the events of each people, are the beginning of a new course. But neither here nor there, Mr. Ariz, we do not start from zero. The third idea: our wills and plans are written. And you could talk about President Ibarche as much as you want, but each side is written. And perhaps I could have agreed with what the patriotic left hand has written, for example, that the process of organisation in the Basque Country would have to be gradual, at different speeds, and so on. Now let us hold on to what each one has written, and ours are written, our desires and designs, and they have been written, they are and remain. And then, after my nomination, I introduced a government program. We have a project, precise. Our project considers the past, and I think it's important to consider the process of organization, Mr. Eriz. Our project considers the present situation and opportunity, and proposes a new future. He respects our project's career, and proposes a career sheet for the future's approval and the use of our chances. Yes, we have a program and we have a commitment. A commitment in space, yes, in space and in time. When the self-government speech had not yet been formed, you were calling for a meeting space between all the Basque political forces to move forward in this new time. When the presentation is made and your work schedule is set, you approve it, take part, listen and are heard. But now, all of a sudden, you're in a hurry and you want to change the road map. You promised to move and you didn't, Mr. Arraiz. What has occurred to him, to give a feeling of movement, is that we move everyone else. But, Mr. Arraiz, no, the self-government paper is space and has its time. There is a road map, and today, what needs to be done is to follow it. The first step is to reach an agreement between Basques, Basques with different feelings of belonging, and this is also what was achieved in Loyola's pre-agreement, in which I was precisely, Mr Arraiz, Loyola's agreement that you mentioned. This is the basis for advancing the improvement of self-government. We have a chance to open up a new time. If there is political will, we can realize and materialize the plurinationality of the Spanish State. I believe that in this new time, in this new transition, it must be possible to exercise the right to decide, as was possible in Europe a few months ago. This Basque Parliament has taken important decisions in relation to our political capacity and our future in 1979, in 1990, in 2004 – certainly not with all the votes of the parliamentary group to which you belonged – and also only three months ago. I do not need to tell you what the Basque Nationalist Party, and I personally as a parliamentarian, have voted in every decision taken. I am and we are in favour of institutionalizing the right to decide, and now we have to make decisions again. Precisely, what the self-government paper is putting forward is an assessment of the way forward and the current situation, always looking to the future, trying to reach an internal agreement as broad and plural as possible. Look, I am lehendakari and I do not give up on this objective, less on a matter that I consider structural for our country, less with the self-government presentation underway. I've said it on more than one occasion. Political commitment means trying again, not giving up: trying again. It means fostering understanding and agreement. And in our culture, I understand that ruling is agreeing. Now we have circumstances that are more favorable to us. All the people gathered here know the majority will of Basque society, of the society that demands us to seize the opportunity to overcome the Basque political dispute. The majority will to do so since the integration of different ideological sensibilities – you also defend this, at least, in some of your writings – that form a plural Basque society. Our political objective is an inclusive agreement between different political sensitivities of the country, an agreement that is ratified by Basque society and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u51	Hello again, and thank you. First of all, I need to say that I feel like I'm an intern, and you were an intern. You're the president and I interact with you, not vice versa, otherwise we're changing our papers. You're asking if we moved. I think EH Collecturek is the purest indication of the Euscal Way that he presented a few months ago. Whether this is not the movement, whether this offer is not to be moved by the euscal society. And I also say that with your party there is also a proof of this movement, of difficulty, of all the working we are doing. Another thing is whether it won't go as fast as we all wish. I asked you frankly, I know who wrote Ramon the Jáuregui, that is why I asked you whether you agree or not, whether you agree with what he says or not, that the other did not deny the possibility of doing the same thing as you sometimes profess. That's why I asked you to know your behavior and find out how you feel about your side. On the other hand, I've been trying to ask rather specific questions. I don't know if the President Ibarche said so, but it's just that he agrees with some things we say, and that's all I've brought into this room. Is most of 75 to 48? Is that a democratic arrangement, or is it not? Or aren't we 48? That's what we want to know. Maybe no somos 48. Yo sí, a favor del derecho a decidir. Maybe he's in the middle of a throne, porque ignora no somos, 48 y azí está el quid de la cuestion. Then the other precise question: Is it to be asked, or is it not to be asked of euscal society? That's a pretty specific question, too. Shall we go our way, or shall we not, as a people without the consent of the state? If this be founded in a democratic compact and in the opinion of the majority of society, shall we make our way as a people or not? Because he won't be without the state's permission. There's no difference. There's no difference. It is Spain, it is the kingdom of Spain, and we all know what roots it is. With all that in mind, we know what it's going to look like. Are we going our way as a village or aren't we? We also believe that this must be the basis of a democratic agreement in the Basque Country, a democratic agreement which ought to be made in every province of the Basque Country, and, moreover, to be asked beforehand of the Basque Society. But if they tell us to go on, shall we go on, or shall we not? That's what we're asking. Amaitzeko, zuk aipatu duzu that can open a new time. No, the new time is open, the new time is open. It's already open, and we run the risk of it becoming old time. We believe that we must seize the opportunity. No one has ever counted on an opportunity like this. All the conditions are in place. It's just a matter of political will, and ours is back on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ray. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ray, we're in a dialectic. You're the one who's making me an intern. You're giving me examples, and I'm answering these examples. And I answer them based on your texts, too. So I think we have to admit that we're on the parliament and that there's a band of jobs in the legislature, that we have a work calendar and that we have to take steps here. And what we're planning is, for the moment, true to this, it's our purpose to consider and appreciate the self-reference's course, in order to make a suggestion to be solved. But from that time forward, here, in keeping the respect due to the law. To this end, the proposals of all political forces are necessary, and not generally what you do, the Euscal Way, a new political time has been opened, and proposals are demanded of us. No, if you have the proposals, present them to the company. Why now this whole Union Union Union, where there is room and time to do so? Why? Depends on your interest. Let's all move, all the rest of us, move and cover your ears, Mr. Ray. That's the game. That's it, and that's it. Our object is to make a agreement between different political forces. And you mentioned it: "You haven't answered my questions." Of course. Didn't I say that a process of the right of deciding would be necessary? Have I not given you the right to answer, not only 48, but that a majority of eroscal society is excluded? How many answers do you have to answer either by the side of the Jestral Party or by the president? Or is it not your game to seek to contradict the President and the Jestric Party of the Eus? We know all these strategys and all these tactics, but we owe the respect we owe to the legislature and its methodology, its business team. And present your work, or your proposition. I do not give up, Mr Arraiz, as a lehendakari, on an integrative agreement on the contribution or on the basis of the contributions of all, because I sincerely believe that this is the sign of the times: agree and integrate, which I believe the abertzale left has also defended at times. I, what I am asking is for you to move on to some of the concepts that you have recently also re-edited, because, in addition to "we are going to move", you also advanced that you were going to start using a new terminology, a new vocabulary. And I propose that they replace the insubordination of the institutions with respect and institutional commitment. I propose that you replace the concept of acts of disobedience and insubordination with the concept of dialogue and negotiation to reach basic consensus. I propose, as I told you, to replace the unilateral revolutionary process with national and social construction on a day-to-day basis. I propose to you what your texts are, Mr Arraiz. And, as I told you, there's already a road map, and what needs to be done is to follow it. To conclude, therefore, we live a new era, and do not say that we are in the presence of a new era, no; I speak of the new period, over and over again. We have to accept the way we've made, and use it to build the future, and we've got a chance to agree with a new political pact. So, move along, accept the work you've done, accept the work you've done. You're just gonna tie up the value of the conversation and we're gonna work on the chance of all of our agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Appeal, Oskar Mate García de Jalón EHG" was made to the president, and revealed to the Basque Society the contents of the TTIP treaty. " It's your word, Mr. Matut.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. As you can see, Mr. President, we have brought into this Chamber a subject which is so important to the Combat and many European agents in the Basque Country as to the rest of this Chamber today. Etorkizuneko gizartean eta gure bizitzetan eragin handia izan dezakeen TTIPaz ari gara. Inposatu nahi diguten akordio hai gizarteratzeko egiten ari garen ahaleginean tematuak gaude, gure herriaren eta herritarren etorkizunerako mehatxu isugarria supposatzen duena denek ezagutu dezaten, Susan Georgek dioen bezala: "Argitara ateraz gero, banpiroei bezala gertazzeko, desagertu dadila". "When he brings it to light, it happens to him the same as to vampires, which disappears." And that is one of the pretensions with which we made this inquiry. The previous interpellation referred to the need to speak clearly, to the movement and to a number of other issues. I think they're doing well on this one too. I will not continue with the previous topic, but these are expressions that would serve this point as well. We are clear, one of our pretensions is to talk about the TTIP again and put our vision of the TTIP back on the table. But she's not the only one. We are not content to make this House just a space of confrontation where we put our vision on the table, a vision that is no longer just Euskal Herria Bildu's; perhaps that is a novel element with regard to previous interpellations, because it seems that in society it is taking the body and dimension of opposition to the TTIP. But, as I say, we do not want to limit ourselves to that, we also want to see whether there is a possibility that by moving all of us will find a formula that will allow us to compare with Basque society, with those we represent, what is your opinion on a treaty that directly affects them, in an absolutely fundamental way, in the future of their life. And we do it today because we couldn't do it on a previous occasion, and this time it wasn't by our will, which also coincides with the International Day of Peasant Struggle, which is also making the day of opposition to the TTIP one of its fundamental reasons on this day. But it is no longer just the people who are betting on food sovereignty and peasant struggle who are today making a global day of action against the TTIP, that tomorrow there will be a European day of global action against the TTIP in the different European capitals, also in Hego Euskal Herria. But it is also that in this Parliament, beyond the unions that have come to position themselves in a clear, robust, uncompromising way against the TTIP, we have met with other types of organisations that are not susceptible or suspected of being part of our cosmogonic vision of society, such as the people of the World Rural Forum, who have also told them that the TTIP poses a constant threat, a real threat and, of course, very certain of what its future is. Therefore, and to the extent that there is all this kind of rejection and response, I do not think that at least on this occasion Euskal Herria Bildu can be accused of not moving. We move in the street, in the mobilizations and, of course, move with society. And it's true that the TTIP didn't start a few days ago. The TTIP – and that is why we bring it to this House, Mr Lehendakari – starts in 2013, and starts, although informally, with a round of negotiations, with statements by someone who is the president of the world's largest venture capital fund, Ray Dalio, when he says that ideology makes the machinery of the economy less healthy. It says so in Davos, which is not a very significant place either. And that is why we believe that in this House we have to deal with it, because, regardless of what position one can have with regard to TTIP, it seems that those who want to impose TTIP have very little respect even for those who, like you, today continue to defend a communion of interests with these people, with this economic elite that governs the world. And we don't think that's democratic. We believe that those who say that "ideology makes the machinery of the economy less healthy" are not expressed in democratic terms. And since we believe that in this House we all want to express ourselves in democratic terms, we believe that this debate must take place. We talked about CETA on another occasion, we talked about TISA, we talked about TTIP. In any case, we are always talking about the latest generation of trade treaties that they seek to enshrine an order and that order is immobile. And that's what we're really worried about, because we, in the confrontation of models, don't mind losing. We risk losing. In fact, there will be those who say that we have done so many times, that of losing. We've won once, too. What we really are worried about is that someone changes the rules of the game, jumps democracy, gives a coup d'état to democracy in order to definitively, and, of course, irreplaceable, consecrate its social order. And that's what transnationals are doing, what big corporations are doing: giving democracy a coup d'état. And they do so by replacing democracy with corpocracy, by that which determines that people are units of consumption. That's what we care about big corporations, and that's all that's making them consecrate treatises like this. Because we may be told that all the threats we see in the TTIP are not entirely true. I am only going to talk to you, for example, about what has to do with the privatization of public services, with health, with education, with water itself as a common good – and they probably point out to me that it is not going to come to the TTIP and that there are going to be exceptions so that in the TTIP you cannot talk about it – it comes to the TISA, which is a parallel agreement that is in the twelfth round of negotiations and that has three clauses that are worthy of mention. One will ring a bell to us all, but by name, not because we know the detail. It's called the trinket clause. This clause says that when steps are taken towards a liberalizing reading, none of the subsequent measures can break that goal. That is, they always have to go towards the logic of liberalization, never on a reverse path, on a path of reintegration or republication. This is one of the TISA clauses, which is negotiated in parallel with the TTIP. Another is called the negative list, and says that all markets, all trade readings are part of the agreement, except those that are expressly excluded, but also those that are not detectable today as areas of trade, that is, new technologies. 15 or 20 years ago they were probably not detectable as a trade area to the extent they are now. We're all surrounded by technological devices. With these agreements that would also be subject to integration. And the other, strict public services, that's what it's called. Strict public services, which are those provided only by the public administration and which cannot provide any other. That is the only thing that would be excluded from these trade liberalization agreements such as the TISA. And what am I talking about? Well, to the Army, there's probably no private dispute over competing to generate another army, fortunately. Or the police, to some extent. Or certain technical aspects of aviation, which are still reserved. AENA was – not so much – an example of that. Therefore, that is the reality in which we are moving. And, as I said, beyond doing what I have already done, which is the denunciation of the TTIP, the TISA, of all the reading of trade agreements that involve a direct attack on the rights of workers, a right attack on our health, a direct attack on our future and a direct attack on the sovereignty of the peoples, because it tells them how they have to live and what they are going to be able to do and what they are not going to be able to do, we, what we want is to ask you, lehendakari, we have done it to you because you a fair month ago also expressed yourself in a meeting of autonomous communities of the Atlantic Arc – I believe it was called – in favor of the TTIP or pointing out the kindnesses – I bring here the cut so that I don't pass like my partner –, it came out in the race, but it doesn't come signed. But the headline is: "Urkullu defends the free trade agreement between the EU and the United States." Hence the interpellation. If you have this position, what we want to know is what your Government intends to do on this whole journey. Because what we do know is what the PNV did in 2014. I guess just like I read it, you'll know it better. I can't help explaining what you probably already know well. But at that time the Basque Nationalist Party, with the People's Party, with the Socialist Party, with CiU and with UPyD voted against an initiative of the Plural Left to promote a referendum in the whole territory of the Spanish State on the TTIP. The reasons they argued, then, were that it was not the time or the opportunity. But by clinging to good faith, that does not mean a refusal to consult the citizenry. We already have experience with NATO, even if the result was positive in the citizens' response, negative in what has to do with the audience or with the respect of the Spanish institutions, we already have a precedent. Why don't you plan to do something similar with TTIP? I am no longer saying this as a European reality, because I also know that the TTIP may or may not be considered by the states on the basis of its exclusive commercial character or not conferred on it. Because, if they give it an exclusively commercial character, they will decide that it is no longer necessary to pass through the congresses or the chambers of the different states, but that it would already be worth with the imperative mandate that they gave it at the time and that the Spanish Congress of Deputies also gave. I am interested in what we and we are going to do, what this Government is going to do to open that debate, to open that participation, to inform citizens and to enable citizens to decide. Because that is democracy – we will certainly agree on that –: democracy is to agree, dialogue, consensus. Here we have a magnificent opportunity to try, and, if not, to listen to the citizenry, and, if not, to respect what it decides. We are willing to respect what citizens decide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Matute. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u57	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I want to say, first, that we are talking about a contract which aims at increasing the disclosures and commerce and investments, and not at all secure or private conditions or public conditions, which are not there to be examined and secured. We therefore consider, at first, that the Covenant is positive. A compact, born to assist the commerce, investments, and exchange of allied countries, as the eloquence of the European member. On principle, same. Positive, because the countries of America are like those which are now engaged in the commerce of the Mercosur, and as they are now doing with those of the South Asia. We live in the global world, spinster, cannot be denied in a world that is growing larger, and the rules are changing in general, and sometimes they are contrary to our interests. Therefore, not to consider this, and not to think that we ought to cultivate it thus, would be to close the autarch and limits; and I think that this is not something which we are now to do, and which we are now to do. The European Committee, however, as Cecilia Marston, has said that to negotiate with the United States much more transparency, it must be examined, and that the negotiations of all the people ought to know how they all go; The negotiations began in July 2013 and, although there is no time to reach an agreement – it is being delayed, it is true – both parties, the United States and the European Union, have stated that they do not want the negotiations to go too far, but that, once the agreement is reached, it must be the Member States and the European Parliament, in addition, who approve it. The advocates of the agreement argue that this will help create more economy, more employment. There is a win-win situation, but also each will have to put on their side in order for this to be the case and will contribute to the reduction of tariffs and to the reduction of tariff barriers on both sides. What are the potential benefits of the agreement? According to estimates by the London-based Centre for Economic Policy Research – you mentioned this centre yourself last year, when I think we were talking about the same subject – 80% of the potential benefits of this agreement will depend on the ability of both parties to analyse existing legislation and to prevent duplication, i.e. that those producers, those companies located in Europe, therefore in Euskadi, who are the ones we are talking about, do not have to overcome regulatory duplication, the European one and the American one. This ability to generate consensus on both sides would imply continuity in the leadership of each of the parts of the regulation it is implementing, but an ease of understanding, to interconnect. If we are talking in Europe, for example, about something that we have also talked about in this House on many occasions, which is the interconnection in transport, not only rail, road, but also energy, and we are talking about analysing and interconnecting our countries with legislation that is somehow understandable to all countries, we are talking about something similar here too. It will improve the overall competitiveness of both sides, reducing those barriers that are currently occurring, increasing competition and helping to strengthen our companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, which are really punished by this duplicity of regulation. But this free trade will not mean that the guarantees of what is being achieved at this time will be diminished, nor that we will lower the rules, that is not it. The impact for Euskadi would also be positive. Why? Because Euskadi has always won when we have accessed a more global market and a much simpler and more accessible market for everything, a more open market. Our industrial capacity will be encouraged especially in sectors such as automotive, machine tools, transport equipment, energy. Let us not forget, moreover, that the United States is the third destination country of our exports. But it is true that throughout the process the committee has tried to make an effort, but not enough, to analyse, to work with different actors, with different involved what is happening, perhaps it has not heard enough what has been done. A website has been created, reports have been published, organizations representing different sectors have also spoken, but ultimately it is not enough. The Commissioner herself is saying this and wants to improve this situation. The agreement requires, I insist, transparency, information and let everyone involved speak, that is true. For this reason, the Basque Government at the February meeting of the Committee of the Regions this year has already made a proposal in this line of public information and transparency. In practice, it means that all key documents are made public and that they must also be presented in an understandable and fair and timely manner. It means informing regional authorities, local authorities, of all the negotiating directives being conducted and informing each and every citizen of the European Union. We have to consider that negotiations on this treaty include areas which, in addition, in some cases, as is the case in Euskadi, in much more local and regional areas, and which the relevant administrations and parliaments will have to talk about. Euskadi's position was raised in that Committee of the Regions in February 2015. An opinion was adopted which reads as follows: "First, taking into account the important regional and local dimension of the agreement, the European Commission is requested to allow this body to join the consultative group on this document in its capacity as assembly of local and regional representatives of the European Union, in order to ensure the participation of governments and local and regional authorities, including municipal authorities. "Second, given the scope of this agreement – of this possible agreement – we must ensure democratic control of the negotiations, of course, and the Commission is therefore also asked to ensure that the whole process is carried out with maximum transparency." It means making all documents public – we have said this – in an understandable way, yes, without restrictions of access to any part of the document, to any of the negotiations, and taking into account all the participations of all the actors involved. Finally, it is stressed that it is a joint agreement and that it is subject to the approval of the European Parliament, yes, also of each of the 28 Member States, but it must also be subject to the approval of local, regional and municipal governments, parliaments and chambers, if necessary. Finally, the Basque Government, in exercise of the transparency it demands, will promote the holding of briefings with each and every civil society player in that country. That's our will. And you referred only to one of the sectors involved, which is true, the agricultural sector. And the agricultural sector, yes, is the most affected, because at the moment it is true that there is in some way a certain quality of protectionism, of subsidies in the European Union, which, well, will have to analyse very well what will happen when the market opens. It is true, and it must be analysed in detail, but it is no less true that the policy being pursued in the United States of the "buy USA" is affecting us greatly with the rest of the productions and with the entry of our companies into the markets of the United States. This treaty will make it possible to facilitate all such actions, and, in this regard, in addition to ensuring transparency and action, we believe as a Government that it is a treaty that will be of interest to our economic development.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u59	Madam Counsellor, you will be able to confirm that I have not come to proselytize my cause, that it is probably often done in this rostrum and I will have done so too, but that I have not come with the idea of pointing out the evils of the opposite position and selling the goodness of my own, that I have tried to make something clear, and gives me the feeling that we are still – you and I, at least – attending as actors invited to a movie by Matrix: you see a reality and I see the opposite; I do not know who has taken the blue pill and who takes the red one. Because, look, for you – I suppose for the lehendakari too – this news will be magnificent: "Siemens offers himself to Urkullu to support Basque SMEs in their modernization." And really, if you read the headline like that, it might look like it's okay. There is a subtitle that says "Siemens and Lakua will immediately start working together." And maybe, if someone sees the headline like that, they can say, "Well, it looks like they're doing what they have to do, work." Of course, what happens is that when Eric Toussaint comes here, who is the one appointed by the Greek Parliament and the Greek Government to generate a scientific committee for the audit of Greek debt, and says that Siemens, in 2009, that its fundamental work was to spend more than a hundred million euros on giving money to Greek politicians, who did not prove to be very decent in the exercise and in the performance of their function, because, you start to worry, you start to worry a bit. Not because of their intentions, but because it seems that the reading that transnationals do of how to influence governments is probably very contrary to what citizens expect from us and from us. And he spoke to me and pointed out to me the positive effects of the agreement. I believe that in this House we have had the opportunity to listen to a lot of people. You were talking to me about the example I set today of the rural world. If I have not wanted to make a retahíla of all the social actors who are positioning themselves against the TTIP, if I can tell you – and you will surely know it – that for decades, for decades, there has not been such a wide plurality in a platform, in a campaign against something, and this is being achieved with the TTIP. The whole union bow, absolutely everything. Virtually the entire associative arc, from the NGO coordinator, through all the internationalist movements, cooperation, environmentalists, women, all, all against the TTIP. Have we become catastrophic? Don't we see the good things you point out to us? No, we see that the reality of the treaties applied – because here, what we can do is contrast – is very different from what you point out to us. I do not say that I do not point it out with good will, what I am saying is that reality contradicts you in a foolish way; that is that when you talk about the character similar to Mercosur, what we can say is that in Mexico, when they raised an agreement similar to this, what they wanted was to stop exporting people in order to export goods. The reality today is that they continue to export people – and when I say export I don't say it in terms of fortune for them – and they don't just export goods, and that, although they grow a lot – I think the fourteenth or fifteenth world growing economy of this year – their reality is that they continue to impoverish and destruct their society inside, and we don't want that for Euskal Herria, and surely you won't want it either. But that is the practical application of these trade treaties for the weakest partner, and I suppose we will not have any difference in this either: in a trade treaty reality with the United States, at least the Basque Autonomous Community has the role of a weak partner. I guess that, as much as we come up, we'll be clear. And I haven't told you about regulatory cooperation or ISDS. You've done it, somehow. I continue to maintain what I have said in this House and what all the trade unions have said, that regulatory cooperation harmonises downwards, that regulatory cooperation, all it does is impose deregulation of the markets, also of the labour market, and therefore precarious the living conditions of all citizens. I don't take a coma away from that. And I think ISDS is an anti-democratic formula. And it is a formula that, of course, is an insult to citizenship that there is no government that defends it, because it is to subtract from the legitimate exercise of justice by a state to grant it to private arbitration courts, where the interests of transnationals always go well. And I think it's okay for you to point out what you said at the meeting that you've read me that information about what you think you're doing here, it's okay, but I think you need a referendum. And look, before they asked us to abandon our positions of insubordination and insubordination. I have not come to this rostrum today to ask for insubordination or submission to the TTIP... , in relation to another point, but that we stop saying those things in the texts to say others. I have not come here to raise this government's insubordination with the TTIP; I would like to, but I know that it is a little far from my reach and from what you want to do. What I have come to ask you is to ask the citizenry, to ask you through the democratic exercise of the right to decide, to start deciding in this country above all, and, fundamentally, about things that affect us so much. And I have not asked for that, although I could really, since in Irún his party, the Basque Nationalist Party, signed a text calling for the submission of the Irún City Council to the TTIP.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u60	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u61	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, Mr. Matute, as on several occasions, we speak you and I as in two parallel universes. No, we have two different models, and neither are you going to convince me or me to convince you, but I think we can continue to debate without any problem. In any case, he's talking about reality being clumsy, that Mercosur hasn't fulfilled what was expected of them. Well, really, last year, together with the lehendakari, in October we had the opportunity to get to know the Mexican reality closely, to be with representatives of his Government, and I think that the reading they were doing of that treaty is exactly the opposite of what you are doing, but probably there will also be different groups living in two parallel realities. You will therefore speak to your own people and we have spoken to the Government. Everything probably has a series of readings, but there is always a positive part, and let me make the reference to the positive parts, because, as I told you, it has been proven that Euskadi, every time a market has been liberalized has come out winning, its economy has come out winning. That's true and it's data-based. In any case, there is one thing I do want to say to you, because you have veiledly left a semi-accusation – or that I thought I understood – that I didn't like anything, really. In that situation where you are talking about Siemens and the government and the Greek debt and gifts, did you mean that Siemens has come to give something to this government? Because I'd like to make it clear. Siemens has come here to offer its collaboration to work with our companies, and we believe that being an important, multinational, leading company can be of great interest for our company to collaborate. And that is the work of our Government, to make our small company, of a country of 2 million inhabitants, be positioned on the map, of course, through Siemens' hand; if possible, why not. Nothing further than what you have intended to move here, and I want to make that clear. You were talking about a referendum. The NATO referendum, to which he has also referred previously, I do not think Euskadi decided it alone. It gives me the impression that it was decided at other levels. We are going to do everything we can, as I have read it, and the position of this Government has also been made clear that everyone's opinion should be taken into account. And if that referendum is raised at the global level, of course, we have no problem in supporting it, but you will understand, when you do not ask for insubordination, neither do you ask us for things that we cannot do. And don't tell me about someone who, well, will have made a decision in a certain town hall. We're going to do things responsibly and, where we can do them, put the things we can do. I told you, there's gonna be... We're analyzing that here we take a position, I've read it to you before. The position of this Government has been that in the Committee of the Regions. So let's talk about the things that touch us. And, if Euskadi is a little better today than we should be in other situations, it is because our economy is internationalized and has gone to the world, not just Europe. And he has also entered the United States, with great difficulty, by the way, and entered South America, with great difficulty. And a treaty that allows us access to important markets will always be welcome. With the maximum guarantees, of course, but a treaty that allows our Government to support companies to be present in the world, generating wealth and employment that will then come to Euskadi so that they can be divided among those who need them most. That is the position of this Government, always, to create wealth so that it can then be distributed. And if this is good for our country, of course, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpation, Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPy D's lawyer made to the president until the end of the Eusko MUMIKM-SECULIED institutional structure for reforming and reforming the activities which he intends to make for himself." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u63	Thank you very much, President. Mr Lehendakari, I ask you about the actions the Basque Government intends to take from now on to reform and modernise the Basque institutional framework, that is, whether this Government is going to do something about this issue or will continue to look at the shrews and leave everything exactly as it is or has been in the past decades. The fact is that there have been countless occasions since 2009 in which UPyD has brought to debate the need to modernise the Basque institutional framework and, in particular, the need to reform the Historical Territories Act; on countless occasions, since 2009, we have brought different initiatives. During the ninth parliamentary term, during the last parliamentary term, a UPyD initiative resulted in a study by the Basque Government on the inefficiencies and duplicities caused by the Basque institutional framework and the creation of a paper analysing possible corrective and modernization measures. This legislature has repeated the history: UPyD presents an initiative on the same issue, on the need to reform the Historical Territories Act, and this initiative resulted in the signing, on 24 January 2013, of a transactional amendment between the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu and the Socialist Group for the creation of a new paper to study the competences of the different public administrations operating within the Autonomous Community. Let us say that it was a way to postpone again what we consider indispensable, which is the reform of the Historical Territories Act. Each time UPyD has brought a proposal in this direction, or directly has been rejected or what has been proposed as an alternative is the constitution of a paper for us to study within that paper what is supposed to be done. But these papers, it has been quite demonstrated that they have to have continuity in the form of political actions, in the form of political decisions, because these papers, if not, are kept in time and all we do is philosophize about the issue, but important decisions are postponed. To this day everything is perfectly studied, so in our opinion we must move on, as I say, to the facts and reforms of all the laws that are necessary to modernise and update our institutional framework. It's urgent to do so, we can't wait any longer. We cannot let this issue go long. The Government and, in particular, the Basque Nationalist Party and the rest of the political parties cannot continue to give way to a matter which, in our view, is absolutely indispensable and urgent. In the past – it is apparent – there has been no political will to modernise our internal institutional architecture and we want to know, when it is a year and a half before the end of the legislature, the will of this government to carry out that purpose which we, as I say, consider absolutely indefatigable. That is why I ask you about the purposes of this Government to update and modernize the Basque institutional framework and, in particular, the Law on Historical Territories, which establishes relations and the division of jurisdiction between the deputies and the Basque Government. In our opinion – we have repeated it on countless occasions – it is not reasonable for an autonomous community such as the Basques, of just 2 million inhabitants and 7,200 square kilometres, to have four parliaments, to have four governments, to have three fiscal policies, to have three haciendas or to have 251 municipalities. This is, in short, unacceptable. This is an archaism that must be changed as soon as possible and with the agreement, of course, of as many political parties as possible, but it must be modernised internally. In addition, the so-called Historic Territories Act facilitates the occurrence of multiple and serious inefficiencies, administrative duplication, oversizing of structures and inter-agency conflicts, and we will therefore propose and repropose its reform. The Euskadi of the 21st century cannot live anchored in past history. There can be no sacred laws. The reform of the Historical Territories Act, of course, is not the panacea that would solve all our evils, but we do believe that it is absolutely essential to carry it out. Obviously, this reform should be joined by others, such as the adoption of a municipal law, the drastic reduction of the network of public enterprises that continue to exist or a process of merging municipalities of the kind that has been done by other European countries. According to a report by the previous Government, the complex Basque institutional framework generates bureaucratic discomfort and inequality among citizens, leads to overlapping skills and leads to duplication in the management of many public policies. According to that study, such inefficiencies and duplicities would amount to slightly more than EUR 400 million per year. A study carried out by the previous Government which, however, unfortunately, did not serve to convince a majority of this House or the Government of the need to reform the LTH and to deepen all those pending reforms. This report, therefore, and above all the accumulated experience confirm that this framework is a nonsense in its current configuration and that it is urgent to reform it thoroughly, not only to reduce the immense administrative costs it generates, but also, above all, to modify and clarify the division of powers and to proceed to eliminate or resize the institutions that prove unnecessary. It is our duty as public officials to try to promote the reforms that are necessary to achieve the best possible institutional structure, the one that is most effective, that best serves citizens, that best facilitates the provision of more and better services, the most viable, the most reasonable, the most sustainable, the most just and equal, that avoids or at least does not promote free competition conflicts between administrations. It is – and this is what we propose, therefore – to rationalise and modernise our institutional architecture, to rationalise, modify and clarify the division of powers between the Member States and the Government and to ensure the maximum possible equality, both in the provision of services and in the payment of taxes. So, do you think this is the right time to definitely proceed with a reform of the Historic Territories Act? We think so. In any case, I am asking you and I am asking you about the measures that this Government is going to take to reform the Basque institutional framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u64	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I am absolutely convinced that you neither seek nor need my recognition, but I am willing to give it to you. Allow me to begin by recognizing his tenacity and consistency in the approach to this issue in the House, because that is indeed the case. It is true that intermittently, by matching the moments in which you raise the debate with equally important and relevant moments of Basque policy, but the question of reforming the Basque institutional architecture – and, in particular, the reform of the law called the Historical Territories – has been raised here in a persistent way, and has also raised it, and I believe that always in the same way, I believe that always in the same terms. Indeed, you have made a small count, a small historical review of the initiatives you have brought to the House on this matter. I have also looked a bit at the background and I have found that four years ago, in February 2011, also on the eve of a municipal and outlying elections as we are now, you brought here, in the House, a motion for a follow-up inquiry calling on the Government to incorporate a reform of the LTH into its legislative agenda. Initiated this legislature, in 2013, also in January, it presents to the House a non-legislative proposal, subjecting it to the consideration of the plenary, basically, with the same content: it also urges the Government to confront, to address without further delay the reform of the LTH, and it requires it to incorporate that legislative draft into its agenda. What is happening is that you will also agree that, in the face of your insistence, you have also met with a House which almost repeatedly and in the majority has always raised the inconvenience of your initiative. I have reviewed the inquiry and the motion that took place four years ago, in the last legislature, I have seen what the previous Government responded to it on the subject and I have found that at that time you were told that you wanted to start the house on the roof, that, in any case, the reform of the LTH would have to be the final point of a longer process in which it was previously obliged, it was imperative to address a reflection and make the relevant studies and analyses in order to identify where the problems are and only after identifying the problems to address the legislative reform that was in principle aimed at resolving them. And it will also agree with me that this majority approach of the House is reproduced at the beginning of this legislature, when in January 2013 the majority of the House, the three groups you mentioned in your speech, basically say the same thing again, that, listen, the work of the last legislature did not conclude, it is necessary to conclude, it is relevant, it is therefore obliged to resume the initiative and the presentation of the working group that did not conclude this work in the last legislature for the purpose of completing the work entrusted to it. For two times, therefore, the House has basically come to say the same thing. It is logical that the House should reply in these terms, because it is true that you have been insistent on the approach to the issue, but it is no less true that you have never said exactly what needs to be changed and how to be changed. You have always articulated your speech with grandiose expressions, you have raised the need to rationalize the institutional architecture, to modernize it, to update it, to suppress duplicities, to limar inefficiencies... Well, expressions that are in the polytological literature and that can be used freely, with relative ease and can be reproduced here, that want to say many things but that may not come to say anything if it is not concrete exactly what each of these principles translates into when what is proposed is the reform of a law. Because, look, its insistent objective is the reform of the Historical Territories Act, but, curiously, today, here, when it has raised the problems that in its opinion the Basque institutional architecture has, which theoretically would have to be solved in the first place by the Historical Territories Act, it has told us about the existence of four parliaments, four haciendas, 251 municipalities... Problems that don't depend on LTH. The LTH is reformed or not, the parliaments would be the same, the finances would be exactly the same and the municipalities would also be the same, because the LTH does not affect these issues. That is why I say that, as you did not say, you have never specified what to change and how to change it, it was logical that the House should say to you, wait, let's make an analysis, let's open a paper, let's set up a working group and let's think about it. We will take stock of the situation, what has given of itself the institutional architecture that starts from the Statute and develops, among other things, through the Law on Historical Territories, and depending on the problems that we detect we will address the reforms – if necessary to address them – legislative ones that can help to correct these errors or dysfunctions. And so it was, in 2011, a working group was set up that drew up that report to which you referred, but that also promoted other actions and led to the appearances of many experts before the commission itself. But the truth is that the end of the legislature came without the working group being able to complete its work, without reaching its conclusions. That is why, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, you intend to take stock of what has been done in the past parliamentary term and ignore the fact that the working group has not completed its task and here again raises the urgent need to amend the LTH, so the House again says the same thing mostly: "No, wait, the papers have not concluded. We're going to rescue, we're going to get the paper back and we're going to get back to work and we're going to finish the unfinished job in the last legislature." And that is how, in fact, the House mostly agrees to make a presentation. A paper outlining its work, which is being set up and which instructs the Government in principle to produce a report which completes the report drawn up by the Executive in the previous legislature, and from there a series of appearances are taking place. The Government did what the House commissioned it to do. First he drew up the work he had to prepare, drew up that report on the analysis and functioning of the institutional regime, the institutional situation in Euskadi, and then I myself inaugurated the work of the paper with a appearance in which I explained the contents of the report. From there, until the information I have, the presentation has held six other sessions in which different appearances have taken place and there are up to three attendees who have been invited to appear have not done so for various reasons, they have excused their assistance. The information available to this humble adviser in connection with the work of this paper is that at this time there is a proposal for conclusions already drawn and that the parliamentary groups have been invited to make their contributions, to submit their amendments so that the final result, the final conclusions which draw the presentation as the final conclusion of their work, are as consensual as possible, i.e. that they incorporate as many of the House's possible accessions as possible. Therefore, we are not at the government's turn at this time. According to the road map designed by the House itself, it is not the turn of the Government, it is the turn of the parliamentary groups, which have at this time been called upon to make their contributions so that the conclusions of the presentation are as consensual as possible. The Government, as it has so far, is, of course, willing to appear, to contribute, to contribute, to advise, whatever is required of it by the House. But I believe that the House is sufficient on its own to discuss this issue and to face the challenge it has at the moment, and it is that of seeking a text of conclusions of the committee or of the paper as consensual as possible. In a parliamentary regime, when Parliament starts or wants to reserve for itself the exclusivity in the analysis, in the study, in the reflection on a matter, the Government, what it does is, respecting Parliament's decision, make itself available to it, and this is what the Government has done in this matter. Therefore, we are now in the turn of the parliamentary groups, not the turn of the Government; of course, the Government reiterates once again its willingness to make itself available to the House when the House completes its task and in the presentation approves the conclusions that will put an end to that. If, on the basis of the conclusions, the Government is entrusted with the preparation of an articulated text, the Government will do so. If the House prefers to agree internally on this articulated text and formulate it as a legislative proposal, the Government will respect it, but at this time it is not the Government's turn, it is the parliamentary groups. The ball is in the House, because the House itself wanted it that way and decided it that way. The government, I insist, will now do what the House has asked it to do in this respect, as it has done so far in relation to this matter, but now, at this moment, the matter is still in the House's own paper of duplicities, because that is what the House itself has decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u67	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr Erkoreka, you are right about the tenacity and consistency of UPyD in relation to this issue, and you are also right about the fact that there has been a parliamentary majority that has told UPyD that it is not about the need to reform the Historical Territories Act. This is true, for the time being, of 75 parliamentarians, there is only one who defends the need to reform the Historical Territories Act. In any case, this may change, and it gives me the feeling that the positions of the different parliamentary groups may have evolved in recent times in such a way that, in a short period of time, perhaps 15 days, there is already a parliamentary majority that, in fact, requires the present Government to take concrete steps to rationalise and modernise the Basque institutional framework and, in passing, to present to this House a reform of the Historical Territories Act, in which case you will have to acknowledge that the ball would no longer be in the House and would become in the position of the Basque Government if, in fact, this happens. We'll see about that. We are going to table a motion for this Parliament to urge the Basque Government, as we have done on other occasions, to submit a draft reform of the Historical Territories Act. Indeed, the opposition groups to UPyD, in this case, have always said no to this UPyD proposal, and have always sought, say, excuses, that is to say, there are some political parties that do not want to reform the Historical Territories Act because they consider that it is an absolutely sacred law, that it cannot be touched and that, moreover, it is not of interest to open this debate, and then there are other political groups that, above all, in electoral times, actually say that we must reform the Historical Territories Act, but when voting they stand against UPyD, and we all know what kind of political parties we are referring to. We will continue to insist on changing the position of those political parties and for those political parties to definitely get wet, and what they say in certain press conferences or in certain election campaigns end up voting here. I believe that, indeed, the time has already passed for papers and studies, that is, at least twice, the creation of a paper was proposed as an alternative to the reform of the Historical Territories Act, but the final objective of the creation of that paper is clear that it was to postpone decision-making, to postpone the debate, that is, I do not think that the position of any political party has changed as a result of the work that has taken place in that paper, quite frankly I say so. I want to say that each political party has more or less maintained its ideas, that is, what the technicians in this field, politicians or certain institutional representatives on the issue have been able to say, will have been very interesting, we will all have taken it into account, but I certainly do not think that it has changed the positions of the political parties. In any case, I was asking the Government what its position was, that is, we don't have to submit an alternative project or say exactly what we would change. No, we are asking whether the Government believes that it has to take some kind of action to reform the Basque institutional framework today, and you are telling me that it does not. You do not think that the Historical Territories Act should be reformed, because I imagine you will have an opinion, you will have an opinion. One thing is for the House to work within that paper, and another is for the Government to have its own opinion on what it should do, I say, to reform the Historical Territories Act and to modify and modernize the Basque institutional framework. In any case, we will see whether, in fact, in a few days there is a parliamentary majority requiring the Government to amend this law. Obviously, the objectives are clear: to clarify competences, to reduce duplication, to reduce overlaps, and to ensure greater equality in Basque citizenship. Those are the goals we have. Another thing is the final objectives that UPyD would defend, which could be, in fact, the abolition of outlaws, the abolition of general boards or an ambitious process of merging municipalities or other issues, but we think that the urgent thing today is at least to start that path of reform of the Historical Territories Act. You say that you do not see this; well, perhaps in a few days you will be forced by this House to start that path. We'll keep trying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I have started my speech with the recognition to which I referred because I assumed that one of the objectives you were pursuing with the presentation of this inquiry was to claim for yourself the paternity of that debate, the birthright of that debate, when other political formations have broken into the political arena by making approaches that also affect legislative reform. I assumed that you wanted to acknowledge "Hey, the first one to raise these issues was I in this House", when those who raise these issues now, in those press briefings to which you referred, were not in these positions. It seems good to me; here, everyone claims what they think they have to claim, and you do it, in short, in the rostrum and in the House, which is where they have to do it. You tell me, "Look, in a very short time, this majority approach of the House can change." Look, what I told you on behalf of the government is that in a parliamentary regime..., in the presidentialists all this is different, but in a parliamentary regime, when Parliament says – to the executive – "Stop, that I am going to open a reflection on this particular, do nothing about this matter, that I am going to set up a working group to study this matter", the government, what it has to do is stop. And when the House asks you, "Hey, you're quiet, but draw up a report and come here and come to explain your point of view to me," the government prepares the reports that Parliament asks you to come to. And all this, we've done. That this is going to change? Well, if it changes, the government will act in accordance with what the majority of the House determines; no more, no less. I do not think there will be a change in that direction. There would be no change; simply, the work that the House has given itself would be completed. The House said two years ago that it would set up a working group to carry out a certain task. It's not that I change my mind, it's simply that this work has come to an end. The paper develops its work, formally approves its conclusions, and has therefore not changed its mindset; it has simply fulfilled the work that had been given to itself. You, from there you say that there are political formations – I am not going to go in there – that are in favour of the reform of the LTH and others are not. The position of the Government and the position of the Councillor at no time has been to sacrifice any legal rule of the legal system. When I have been asked about the matter I have always said that the LTH is not just like any other ordinary reformable law: it is enough to look at its explanatory statement to see that there are some references to the susceptibility of reforms that are not present in other rules, and therefore the drafters of the law were already thinking that the scheme of the division of competences envisaged in its article was susceptible to reforms. This, it is not customary for ordinary laws to do so, and yet the LTH does so, recognizing its status as a modifiable norm. But it has also been modified on several occasions; sometimes, on the initiative of the House, with proposals for legislation out of the House, and sometimes through projects that came from governments led by the PNV. That is to say, I do not know what political formation considers to be a sacred norm, which is not subject to change. I have known LTH reform projects that have emerged from governments led by the Basque Nationalist Party. That is, that here, of sacred approaches, nothing. With regard to my position, at no time have I said, either in the past or in this rostrum today, that I consider that the LTH should not be changed. The Government's position is reflected in the report which was referred to the House, at the request of the House, and which I defended in the paper in which you were also, and we had an interesting conversation, an interesting exchange of views on the institutional architecture and on, I see, the appropriate legal instruments to address each of the changes that arise. Before I made reference here: the LTH icon would only solve a minimum part of the problems you identify in Basque institutional architecture. To reform the issues that you think need reform would require reforms..., to amend the Statute, and even, if I am in a hurry, in some case the Constitution. With the LTH we would have little in relation to the four parliaments and the four haciendas to which you refer. In any event, I, on behalf of the Government, can only insist once again that in this matter it is available to the House, and that the House, when it concludes the road map that has marked itself, when it completes its work and approves the conclusions of the paper, if in those conclusions of the paper it entrusts the Government with any task, the Government will faithfully carry it out, as it has done so far in relation to all the work that has taken place within that working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpelation, made by Daniel Maez Perez EH Team members to the president on a high-speed train." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. It is the work of a high-speed train, and, as we know, the infrastructure that is spending most public money. We can see that the 68% of the investment section is now supposed to be a high-speed train. And in the transportation section, for example, the 97% of the entire investment. So, people know what economic and social effort we have to do, that is to say, a large sum of public money, a great sum of public money, which can be directed to hospitals, schools, and public housing, and is not directed to it, but to the construction of a high-speed train. That's economic and social costs. To these, of course, the sacrifices of the surrounding region must be added: While thousands of trucks are made up and down, CO 2 the spills and noises, the dry dozens of dried years, the dry, infected brooks by dozens of dried and infected earth, the moved tons of millions of earth, and an endless list. We people know, therefore, what sacrifice we must make for this work; economic, social sacrifice and environmental. Now we want to know what benefits are, just as we have to do at the time of our examination of a structure of this kind, an economic and social institution, which is what social and economic benefits are, in short, a cost-bean examination. The people know what the cost is, the Economic, the social, and the environmental cost is, just like I said before, just as they want to know, and they have every right to know how to improve them when they make an investment of this kind of life. Well, we haven't seen a cost-conquest in this area yet. We spent billions of euros and didn't see any tests. Yes, we've heard it's from the strategic project, over and over again. Yes, we've heard that it's essential to reset Euskadi. Yes, we have also heard that it is necessary for our growth, but those fat words are not based on the data received in a serious report. They've been based on political propaganda, but in a cost-conquest investigation, no real investigation. And when we get to this point, there's a lot of questions. More and more data are being explained, more and more data is the question of the social income of a high-speed train, or rather the fact that it has no social income. What about the government? There are no reports, no data, and no everlasting cheap refrains, and the refrains that repeat themselves over and over again. And questions are really important. So it's time to give answers. They are at this moment indispensable to explain the answers to the people, to the people who are going to make an immense economic effort, and to profit from this work. First, it must be specified what the full economic cost will be, considering the entire infrastructure, even the ova and today superstructures are only around 25% of the gym, because now we're making substructure, but then we're going to have to make the overstructure, plus the trains, plus the revenues and the stations of the capitals... How much, in total? We want to know how much economicly this whole work will cost us if it ends one day. You say $6 billion. We're sure that when it ends as a whole, it will exceed the number of 10,000 million, but this is not a discussion between the two parties. At this moment, the citizens want to know what functional rights are to know what the cost of this work will be as a whole. And then, if possible, when we have once identified the economic sacrifice as a whole, let us begin to explain the benefits if possible. What will save the time, for instance? According to the Ministry of Sustament, when Gasteiz and Donostia are set up in 55 minutes, and not at the beginning in 34 minutes, such as Donostia-Murbo, and not the 38, which was said at the beginning, for instance, 55, and not at the beginning; You have to tell the locals that we're spending 10,000 dollars, or 6 billion euros, I don't care if they put a PeESA bus on their stomachs. But the cost of klaro, PESA, to bind Bilbo and Donostia, for instance, is about 11 euros with Hadad Barik.) How much is the price to charge for using a high-speed train? What's the price of the bill? It's a prediction you're asking for for Intercity management, isn't it? What's the price for that? This answer is indispensable at the time of the knowledge of benefits. David Hoyos, professor of the Basque Country University, put that price around 25 euros. Is the government denying those data? A university teacher made his calculations. Don't you read those facts? We know that, we know, and these are Renfe's data, "Movidad y sue de la línea de alta velocidad, Y vasca, 2011" which put Madril-Murbo AHT's bills in 75 euros, and we think Mr. Hoyos isn't very wrong. And the value of the price is indispensable, on the one hand, to know the potential users, and on the other, to know social recovery, so we need answers. continuing with supposed benefits, in this case in the environmental area, CO. 2 In the course of the course of the course of the year, the investigations published by the Chinese in the famous journals, did not include the reviews published on the website, Nikolaa, considering the contents of the works. 2 and whatever will flow in the working, they conclude that only high speed trains are CO than planes. 2 that it flows less. And I don't think it's necessary to remember that Bilbo and Donostia or Bilbo and Gasteiz don't get associated with planes today. And not considering the flow of the works, that at long distances, the high-speed train drops even less than the carriages. So we must tell society, or you must say to society, that the high-speed train to bind our capitals will be more expensive than taking a bus, CO. 2 that the inclination will not save them, and also, at a great deal of expense, five minutes to save them. And of course he won't get a car off the road, because he won't be competitive with the car in the connection between our capitals. And if I am mistaken, we really want to know the facts, what reports you are based on, and what are the facts. We're the ones who've been published in different economics. We'd like you to know what data you're based on. "A helicopter service to join Bilbo, Gasteiz and Donostia would be more profitable than TAV." This is not said by Dani Maeztu, this is said by a professor of Applied Economics. And although reading it is shocking, it is simply the logical conclusion to make a rigorous cost-benefit analysis. Not to hire ad hoc reports on supposed direct economic impact of a public investment of huge amounts of public money, those reports made to the taste of the payer. No, no, a rigorous cost-benefit report. It is a logical conclusion that derives from the international analysis of the reality of high speed. Therefore, Mr Lehendakari, Mrs Oregi, or both, EH Bildu does not call for a continuous revisionism of the VAD, as Mrs Oregi said yesterday, no. EH Bildu, what you are asking for is data and where those data are based. If as a society we are going to make a huge economic, social and environmental sacrifice too, we want to know what benefits the high-speed train will bring to society. To the construction companies, we now know the benefits that are being passed on to them. We want to know, to society as a whole, which is going to have to make that economic and social sacrifice, what benefits it is going to bring to it and, above all, what data and reports are based on these supposed benefits.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u72	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u73	Good morning, again. Madame President, President, head of the department, members of the legislature. Mr. Mazetu, I don't think it's hard, but I think you force me to put my context and priority on the table again. The "Euscal Y" or the new railway network is constructed as the fundamental link of the Atlantic Atlantic railway passage within Europe, from the start of the first definition of the networks inside Europe, which the European Union approved in 1994 at Essen. That's why I was talking about this revisionism routine yesterday. The Atlantic network network inside Europe is a physical means of transport to people who need a higher degree of quality and a higher level of movement in their activity needs. The "Euscal Y" continues to reside in the new area of the European transport networking system structure, which contains the most important aspects of the strategy version of the multiplemoid network. And in TENT's opinion, he collects qualities that have more value in addition: the connection above the frontier, the drowning and the intermodal nature. My commitment to that network inside Europe can't be questioned. There's a lot of commitment going on until this time we're building a part of that cast-off network from the early planning phase. To encourage this substructure is to give strong steps to the Basques and to the future that will be better for Europe. It's a project with European funding in part. The time to travel among the three capitals is originally your interpenetration, and I have brought you some data to travel on the track we now possess. Between Donostania and Bilbo, 2h 35 minutes, 15 minutes between Donostia and Gaste, 1h 45 minutes, so that you don't want to try between Bilbo and Gaste, you should make a ferry in Miran and I don't want to think how long that trip would last. Amongst the three capitals, which is most commonly used by private vehicles, the time required to travel at this time of time by the 1:1 autotrack: Donstrosia-Burbo, 60 minutes, Donostia-Gastei, 70 minutes, Bilbo-Gastei, 45 minutes. With the new construction of the railway railway, which is currently being constructed, which, once it has been finished, will require time to travel among the three capitals: Donstrosia-Bumbo, 40; Donostia-Gasteiz, 38; and Bilbo-Gastei, 28. After all the work of Euscal Y's work has finished, the time for your trip from the beginning of the project is the time for you to travel. On Wednesday, 15th, she spoke again of the days required for the journey of the Minister. However, such periods must be competitive compared to private vehicle, and when the "Eusscal Y" is fully built, there will be no doubt about it. For, by saying the railway and more accurately, the public transportation services to Euscal Y will be competitive in the duration of the journey, but these services will be very reliable. The train is confident, and it's also safety and comfort. Traveling by train is safe and comfortable. No doubt traveling by train will be very attractive from any point of view to all the Basques after starting the "Euscal Y" service. It's the line that mixed traffic will be able to offer, and among many other things, he'll give us the opportunity of offering a comfortable public transport between the three Basque capitals. This service will be a very attractive alternative to a private vehicle when we wish to go from one place to another for work, leisure, or other reasons. In response to the body of your inquiry, I had prepared, above all, a matter of time because it was what you asked me to do, but, in any case, I will take up the point of my first intervention today in this House, linked to climate change. Climate change, for scientists, for the international scientific community, is one of the biggest problems we face, and all governments – whether state or regional – are committed to tackling it because, as I said, paraphrasing Ban Ki Moon, "We don't have a plan B because we don't have a planet B." And in order to tackle that problem, we must do so by attacking those sectors that are the biggest contributors to those greenhouse gases and that problem. Here one of the most important problems, or one of the sectors causing this climate change, is transport, as all the manuals say. In the specific case of the Basque Country of Euskadi, 36,6 % of the total energy consumption in our Community is due to the transport sector. But in addition, 28% of greenhouse gas emissions are due to transport. Of that transport, if I look at the modal distribution we have in the Autonomous Community, I find that 95% of our modal distribution is the road. And, furthermore, if I think or look at the data that the transport of goods gives me, I find that 80% is linked to the road. We know it's the most inefficient way. We know we have to correct that. Of course, I am absolutely convinced that that is impossible to correct with lines designed for steam trains in the 19th century. That's right, I've got it on the meridian. And because I don't go to our website and our propaganda – check out what propaganda you read too – I'm going to go to Ecologists in Action. On the website of Ecologists in Action – I don't know if it's propaganda; of course, it's not ours – they have a very interesting analysis about transport and they quote a book also very interesting, from Editions Catarata, which usually has interesting things, "Towards the ecological conversion of transport in Spain". They take Spain as their reference, but, well, let's use it. They review the energy consumption and it turns out that the car is the least efficient medium, with an energy consumption of almost double the railway means, almost four times more than the bus. In addition, he said that the car was an impossible means of democratizing because the more it spreads, the more inefficient it is. I'd love for you to do a helicopter transport analysis, I'm going to ask these Ecologists in Action. As for air quality, 16,000 premature deaths due to pollution in Spain, say the studies conducted by Ecologists in Action. Do you know why, basically? Traffic. Transport. Road transport. Accidentality. The media on an exclusive platform hardly present accidents for the proportion of the number of people they transport. Noise: the loudest way to move is the car. Consumption of territory and public space. The traffic plus the parking lots, because you don't have to forget it, you have to tell everything. You already know that when we do cost studies we have to tell everything, it is not only worth telling things; also in the consumption of public space. Well, it turns out that the meters of width needed to transport 50,000 people per hour and sense, if we use the railway means are 9 meters, if we use the bus are 35, but if we use the car is 175. Ninety times more public space occupies a journey from home to work by car than by public transport. In short, maintaining our current model, which we had, leads to emissions, congestion, collapse, inefficiencies, consumption of the territory. We have an alternative model that is embedded in European policies and what the most advanced countries in Europe are doing. Look at you, Switzerland, Norway, Holland, United Kingdom, what are you doing? There we are working, to change this reality that we don't like. What's your plan?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u75	I come with data, and I get data from where, for instance, I get the data from the founding faith, Fundacion de studios de Economía Amplicada, the data from his magazine. And you do not only give other facts, and whence you draw them, but also call it propaganda. Well, I don't think it's the right thing. Anyway, it's the only report you've written about a few data from the Acción website of the Ecologists. And I say, what do these data have to do with a high-speed train? High Speed train will fix CO 2 What about Euscal Autonomy in Erre? No, no! He'll add it. And if not, tell me how it will diminish; please tell me. How many cars does he take? Why would he take the cars off the road? Ten minutes to save, and three to pay for, will people leave the car or the bus to pick it up? And ten minutes... , you must see when, because you say 'when everything is finished', but the question is: When will it all be finished? What happens when it's over? And I'll tell you, CO. 2 Around liquids... I'll repeat the data to you again: the high speed train is only more efficient than the plane at short distances, so please tell me how you will reduce them by high speed train CO 2 The spills, please. And that, regardless of the fluids, it only works. If we consider the leaks of the work, it is not, in a hundred years, re-entered by the official shrimpings, so tell me how you will face the problem of climate change by a high-speed train. And then the joker you use is, always, a line of primer Europe. So? Is that a project followed by a report of costu-onura? No, no! Europe is the line, but is it the states that have their final decision? Yeah, that's right. What has France decided? On that line, in that primary line for you, France has a great deal to say, doesn't it? He's studied Economically and socially and said that he's not going to connect with Viceroy and Henda. The argument of this primary connection is naturally very weak. The States decide, and it doesn't even mean that it's done after a cost report. Eta bukatzeko. You come, the most responsible for the mobility policies that have been made in this country, the most responsible for having filled with cement and for having made roads like the Supersur in this country and you come to tell us that you are responsible for the modal distribution that exists today in transport, those who have given priority to the least efficient medium, such as the road, and now you come to use us against those data that have given priority to the road? What are we going to do? No, really, I don't understand. Are these your arguments? Are you so weak right now? Can't you argue other ways about the social benefits of a high-speed train? Really, that's a shame. But the worst part of all this is that you know it. This is not a train or a means of transport designed for a social purpose to achieve social profitability. It was not conceived this way and therefore it will not be so. The Basque Y, like all the high speed Spanish, is conceived as in its day the Roman roads were conceived, for the expansion of the empire. Then the Roman, now the empire of globalization and developmentism. For that it was done, with that strategy of continuing to fill with cement and thinking that making more infrastructure and filling with cement our land meant economic and social profitability. And all it takes is to allocate huge amounts of public money to some builders, but no social returns later.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u77	Forgive me for using the joker again, but it is true that we are at the principal network in Europe, in a strategic network and in a strategic corretor. And we've had to defend everything and always have to defend it because that's the way it is, that's the basis and we believe it. There's a network in Europe, and though there's a problem at some point in this chimmoment maybe it's the case of a part of France, which doesn't doubt the whole network. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When you come in, when you do a network and see, look how it is in Europe, there are parts made, other parts are not made... It's a great work, because it's strategic and it's enormous, it's true, and it can't be done all at once. So, we're building, building... We've been here twenty-four years now, at our place. 1982, I think it's the first documents and agreements and reports that you know. And there are also rotations and economic impacts, there they are. They are all on the table, but they must be read, seen, and then used. And I've used the Ecologist's report on the march, because I thought he was very well traded. That's the benefits he's talking about. That's them, you'll find them in any kind of authority. Those are the reasons for protecting the traffic traffic, most of them, there's probably someone else. On the money, you tell me over and over how much the bill is worth. It'll be worth what it needs to be good for people to be attractive to... Citizens. How are we going to face climate change with AHT? No, no, no! We won't face climate change with AHT, not just AHT. We have a strategy, we're doing another strategy, and at this moment we have three strategys running in my department. one is the famous DOTs (directrices de orderion del teratoria), another is an el Plan Director de Transporte Sostegible, and another is the strategy Vasca de Cambio Climiteico. The three are on the move, the three are being defined, they are working with the different actors, and the three define as one of the fundamental issues the issue of transport, and within transport this line, the high-speed line, because it will allow us – the high-performance line; we know that in the matter of speed we are also not talking about 350 km/h, we are talking about a high-performance line–..., and they define that this high-performance line is nuclear and key to changing our country's mode of operation and mobility, because it is road-based, of course. Not only here, but in our entire western environment; go, if not, also to look..., well, in Europe, of course; if you go to the United States, more of the same. If we look at the motor ratios of our European environment, we will find that we have 435.9 tourists every 1,000 inhabitants, the State 476, France 512, Germany 539. That's our environment. We are not a whim of nature because we have roads, it is so in our entire environment. But we must look to the future and correct the issues, and we must move towards what our society is going to be in the future. We're making a network inside... a network that's going to last 150 years like the one we have right now, coming from the 19th century. We have to think about the benefits of agglomeration, the capital rate is over 60% in the functional capital areas. We have to think about the ageing of the population, with a very high percentage, more than 65 in a few years, which is going to be demanding of this type of transport. There are many questions, Mr Maeztu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Number of points in theme list: "Interface, the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Basque Group to the president, to deprive him of his reputation and pressure of the activity of justice." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Especially, and then... also before, but I say especially after the Vitoria-Gasteiz Judgement No. 4 car, in which 26 people have been prosecuted for an alleged plot of corruption around No. 2 of the PNV of Álava, Alfredo de Miguel, and other leaders and institutional positions of the Basque Nationalist Party, numerous out-of-place statements and improper political leaders have taken place – I say especially later –. We are talking about a case in which there are alleged crimes, which are being investigated – the investigation phase has already ended; therefore, the oral trial will be opened – in which crimes such as prevarication, conspiracy, influence trafficking, money laundering or misappropriation of public revenues have been committed. The aim of this plot was to obtain irregular public contracts and to collect illegal commissions. Helburua zein zen argi zegoen: kontratu publikoak modu irregularean lortzea eta legez kanpoko komisioak kobratzea. Statements such as recent statements by Mr Egibar and other institutional political leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party clearly seek to discredit and pressure the actions of the judiciary. Argi dago Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalearen deklarazioek asmo politico argia dutela, age of pressure eta depressigati botrere judicialan lana. Mr Egibar attacked the investigating judge by pointing out that he had merely copied 80% of the conclusions approved by the Basque Parliament's committee of inquiry. Statements that, as I say, seek to disqualify the performance of judges when their decisions, it is clear that they do not like, annoy or harm them. When it is said that behind there is a clear political intention..., they deny asmo politicokoa dagoela Ramos epailearen ekintzan, when it is said that the judge's car is a short and sticky, a literal transcription of the conclusions of the commission of inquiry, it is clearly thrown with all these statements – then I will refer to some more, because they have not been the only ones – it is thrown, I mean, against the division of powers and judicial independence, pillars and the essence of our democratic system. It is evident that all these statements are opposed to the freedom of the division of power and of the judicial power. All these statements, as I say, are in the same line. Deklarazio guzti hauek ildo berberean doaz. The PNV has also come to suggest that behind this investigation there is an interested political impulse, that there is a political prism that might want to print this judicial process in an electoral year. The other day also Mr Ortuzar, Ortuzar EBBko presidentak aipatzen zuen, spoke of the bankruptcy of procedural guarantees. Lehendakari himself, Mr Urkullu, lamented "the judicialization of politics and the politicization of justice", and also said that "it was curious that the whole process came to light in a pre-election process". These are intercommissioned issues of teletypes and public statements that you, Lehendakari, have made; therefore, I do not see how you can be missed. Then Mr Erkoreka played the game when he pointed out that "we are therefore going to be respectful of the system of rights and guarantees and we are going to let judicial proceedings be conducted with their established procedures". Then he added that when the sentence comes out there will be an opportunity to talk about it. Mr Erkoreka, who is very used to giving lessons to members of other governments, and to other governments, is also allowed to give lessons in this institutional respect that accompanies many of the statements of this government that presides over the lehendakari, when he says that the Rajoy Executive has been erected in advance, in announcing the content of the sentences that the judges are going to make, or when Mr Erkoreka himself says that there is always pressure on the judges by the PP when certain judicial decisions are made. Justice, of course, must be said that it is not at the dawn of the interests and demands of the Basque Nationalist Party. The highest political and institutional leaders of this party attack, not on time but repeatedly, those who investigate, try to clarify and reach the bottom of matters on illegal issues and alleged crimes that they seem to want to hinder. Some, like you, believe that the tentacles of the EBB have to reach the very courts. For, look, they like it more or less or they want to change certain principles to their convenience, the independence of the courts of justice is precisely the safeguard of our rights and freedoms. They're justiating independence from the gure eskubideen eta askatasunaren bermăme yes. You attack with all these kinds of statements to the judiciary, unscrupulously, when the resolutions want to teach us the truth, that truth that clearly destroys the immaculate image that you have wanted to sell us to Basque society. Then, of course, they try to make their theory extensive, as Mrs. Arrizabalaga did yesterday in this very rostrum... , remained wider than long when he says he compares the "Michael case" with the excesses of justice with the ETA environment. There's always judicial excesses, justice is always out of bounds on the issues... on the monotheme. Egibar has also accused – because it is not only the People's Party that is involved – of Mr Zapatero's government of using the Constitutional Court as a political weapon, in connection with Mr Ibarretxe's consultation. Well, Anasagasti described as paranoia the decision of Judge Marlaska to summon a member, a national executive of a party, as accused. Mrs Azkarate, spokesman with Mr Ibarretxe from the previous Government, said that legal proceedings cannot go free of charge. Mr. Azkarraga was talking about pandering, beating, implying that the presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court had been able to commit prevarication offences; this was said by Mr. Azkarraga, who was a Councillor of Justice. Therefore, we can say that all these statements, which are here for everyone, for the institutions, for the parties that we govern or have governed at national level, are the DNA of the functioning of nationalism, and especially of the Basque Nationalist Party, because this way of acting has been reproduced once the instruction of the "case of Michael" and once the "case of Michael" has been known, which, of course, clearly demonstrates a conception of country and democracy, and, of course, I want to say that some remind us more of past times or practices, of course, of other regimes. The General Council of the Judiciary has already noted its concern about the demonstrations of some political leaders following several important resolutions and pronouncements of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, and some have expressly reminded them of the right to criticism, but to the advisability of accompanying criticisms with the measure that political leaders are supposed to appreciate when assessing them, for the binding institutional respect that must govern relations between the public authorities. This had to be remembered on several occasions by the General Council of the Judiciary. Recently we have also seen the statements of Mr. Ibarra, president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, supporting the action of the investigating judge who has investigated the case of the "Michael case". That is why we want to ask you, lehendakari, with all this number of disqualifications that try to discredit and pressure the action of justice when the resolutions are not to your liking, do not like them, harm them, do not satisfy them, we want to ask you if it is the intention of the Basque Government to continue to discredit and pressure the action of justice when the procedures and judicial resolutions are not to your liking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u80	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garridio, you ask if you're going to underestimate the talk of justice or continue to press justice in your interpelation, and that's why you've made so many expressions and made so many explanations to this tribe today. Well, I must deny your confirmation from the base, and I must begin with this in my speech. I can't help talking about anything else or other, my friends, who make this fun of us, starting from the president and going to the end of the department, didn't make any statement that the administration of justice could be an effective pressure or that the exercise of justice, the work of justice, is despised or despised. But before I proceed on this argument, I should like to determine clearly, as I think, the head of this government, in the presence of judges and courts of justice, and, above all, what our opinion is, what our point of view is. The courts and courts are public authorities, and as they are public authorities, their decisions, as well as the decisions of other public institutions, are subject to the censure of society, which may be censured. The criticism is permitted, and the criticism is, luckily, made every day. The journalists criticize the decisions of the judges and the courts, the citizens criticize them; they criticize them every day, and even the political leaders, by doing their freedom of speech, with all their rights. I think it is important to consider this, because, when we often speak of this subject, every criticism is thought to be too few, or considered as contempt. No, criticism is permitted and done, and it cannot be otherwise. Why? Because the judges are human, because the courts of justice are composed of human beings, and may be mistaken, and that under pressure they can make their decisions. The latter, therefore, has foreseen the second instance of the judicial system, and as a judge may be mistaken, the second instance is necessary in order to correct and correct his errors. Hence the judicial system foreseen that when the three magistrates play together in the case of courts, when the one does not share the other, the other is mistaken in the possibility of giving his own votes. There are mistakes, because there are men, the judicial system itself foresees all these possibilities. The second edition of a book which has been published for a long time has been published. The title of that book is "Antologia del juducial" I've had the book for a long time and it's very curious to read it. In this book there are several sentences mentioned, which are gross mistakes, and which are serious. And I only bring this as an example, with that data to illustrate my interference. Because of the possibility of mistakes, therefore, criticism is permitted, that it is possible, and has its place in the right of expression. Hence it must be asserted that this right of criticism has its limits. Yeah, I won't deny that. There are limits. What are those limitations? It is a limit that in the shade of criticism the institution cannot be guided by contempt. These are limits from respect due to all institutions. In the name of critics, you can't underestimate the work of a public institution, the task. And the most important thing: The function which this institution ought to fulfil cannot be prevented, checked, or confined by criticism. Therefore, as to the rest, the proverb who invented it has been received in the law: when the judge sees that another public institution criticizes his work, he may then claim protection from the General Council. This is why this possibility is anticipated: when a critique restrains, hinders, hinders, and prevents its function, then, when its independence is conditioned, it can then demand its protection. We have yet had a clear illustration of this; In fact, certain judges of the State of the National Court and of the Supreme Court have thought that some of the critics from the institutions were beyond that frontier and respected their due respect. I'll give you the example: The three magistrates of the national audience and the 18th of the Penal Magistrate of the Supreme Court, 13 from Exod.18. 13 has demanded protection from the Council of Exodus for the statements made by the Minister of the Interior, because he reproached them for the prevarication, and the other Minister of the High Court... because they insisted that the terrorists were on the side of the terrorists and that they were expressions of terrorism. Then they demanded protection, and the council gave them no protection. It is a council made by Lesmes, and the majority is a popular council. He did not give them any protection, but Lesmes says a signed decision: "Careken de ununjustificationio minimamente rapible y son un exceso no justificated de crítica de juduciles." " This, it seems, is not only a custom of the Jeltist Party, but some of the other institutions have great insults to the judicial authority, and Lesmes himself is led to make such decisions. That's not what I'm saying about the De Miguel case that you've been talking about, criticizing, not making any statement, these boundaries that are not protected by freedom of expression, that transcends any action or expression. Many and many expressions you have spoken of, of Anabarah's, and of many in the past, and so on, I do not know what context they were made, but they have not been removed from this government. We should also see whether the expression is in the right, what they said, their content, and how far it is. But, in any case, there are no statements from this government that this government has said nothing. Aitzitik, lehendakariak hemen Maneiro jaunak egindako gallera bati sontzunez duela hiru-lau astebete gaurkoa bezalako kontrol saio batan zuen: "I insist on respect for the judge's decision and the judicial procedure. And at the moment when justice is pronounced and judgment given, if the Basque Government, on whose behalf I speak, is affected, I guarantee that we will act again as quickly, as quickly as possible and as clearly as possible." The President himself here, about this matter of three or four weeks ago in this tribe, with a clear, transparent expression of yours, and a respectful respect for the institution and its judicial proceedings, I believe that this puts a clear impression on the case of this Government, which is offensive, offensive, and unapproved, and unapprovable. I will now say nothing of what the journalists of society, the Tetullians, and political leaders, and what they can do with their liberty, because every one may report what he says. But here we are speaking of what this government has done, and this government has not conquered these limits, as other governments have done. And the most obvious indication is, that those judges you have mentioned did not claim the protection of the council, as others have done, because they plainly saw that the abuses taken from the central government, their personality, their dignity, and their duty conditioned them, prevented and hindered them from doing so. This has not hitherto been expressed, and therefore I demand the same respect as this Government has for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u82	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Well, yes, Mr. Erkoreka, I would have liked the lehendakari to have responded, but you have answered me. More than anything, because also the lehendakari has made statements in relation to this matter and in my opinion, of course, improper of a lehendakari and of course they do not correspond with due courtesy and institutional respect to the rest of the State's powers, other public powers (in this case, to the judiciary). And I have made a review with some specific statements – you have clearly wanted to unlink, but they are there and they are qualified leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party – because they are not isolated. Because all these statements, this whole cluster and list of statements reveal a way of acting by the Basque Nationalist Party. The Basque Nationalist Party, when there are judicial decisions, rulings, which it does not like, but it does not like because they harm it or because they bring to light things that it does not want to come to light or because they go against its interests or because, as I said, they leave in evidence that immaculate image that you have wanted us to transfer year after year to Basque society, because those statements do not like them and those resolutions do not like them and then try to discredit the work of the judges with very clear statements aimed at attacking the judges. Or is it not to throw at an investigating judge who will or will not like the work he has done, but what cannot be said of a judge is that he has copied 80% of the conclusions of the Basque Parliament's investigation and has made a short and sticky? But who is Mr. Egibar to mess with a judge who has pulled an opposition, who is in a court of law, who has done a job?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u84	Mrs Garrido, we're in a plino control. Do you want someone to get a word out of pussy? No, right?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u85	No.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u86	Well, please control the government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u87	I may have quoted Mr. Egibar too much, but the case has been quite bloody. How does Mr Erkoreka tell me that there is no contempt in those statements? How can you tell me, spokesman for the Basque Government, that there is no contempt in those very clear statements that sought to attack a judge, discredit justice and disqualify judicial action? How can you tell me that these statements go inside... because you've come here to say that they go into almost the normal criticism that can be made of a judge's performance. Man, no! Mr Ibarra, President of the High Court of Justice, had to go out to put things a little bit in place and to highlight the investigative work carried out by a judge. Of course we can criticize, we can all criticise certain things, but the General Council of the Judiciary has already said this on repeated occasions: from the measure that, of course, must accompany due institutional respect among the public authorities. And here, repeatedly, and this government too – and that is why we have formulated this question to the lehendakari – this line has been clearly missed and has not respected other institutions such as the judiciary in its judicial decisions. When you do not like those judicial decisions you criticize them and pass the line you were saying of due institutional respect clearly. That is why we have asked whether you are going to continue in this thesis, because I imagine that judicial pronouncements will continue to exist; that, of course, we like the functioning more or we like less, but we endure. But it seems that the Basque Nationalist Party and this Government when there are certain judicial pronouncements in one direction, when they do not like, jumps and strikes clearly against the judiciary and its resolutions. That is why it is important for this Government to say whether it is going to continue with that attitude of constant criticism, but constant criticism that it tries to discredit the action of justice when judicial decisions are handed down that you do not like, that you do not like, that harm you or, simply, that you are demonstrating the truth and trying to clarify facts that you seem to be in the background that you do not want to be made clear.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u88	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, you have again tried to reproduce sentences, criticisms that have been made from these instances against the judiciary or against specific decisions or decisions of specific judges and courts, but, of course, you have not brought up a single date from this government. We are in a section of control, as the President has well reminded you, and she is talking to me about what a political leader, a parliamentarian in this House who has as much right as you to express himself publicly. It brings me to collation expressions that have said – I insist – in previous governments, in other executives, leaders who are not even of the Basque Nationalist Party, who belonged to coalition governments, as you do with Mr Azkarraga, who has quoted, that I do not know what collation Mr Azkarraga can cite to criticize the work of this government. So this Government, in relation to the matter to which you refer and other matters, has not exercised a right to criticism of judicial decisions beyond what is permitted and lawful. And the most eloquent test... There is an indicator in this sense that is efficient and definitive, and it is the reaction of the affected judges themselves. When judges do not consider that they have to apply for the protection of the General Council of the Judiciary, it is because they understand that the criticisms that have been directed to their resolutions do not exceed the limit of tolerable. And here there has been, as far as I know, none addressed to this Government, and there have been very clear and very clear statements by many judges and very relevant, nothing less than 13 out of 18 of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, which have gone against statements made by eminent members of the central government of the People's Party. That you come here to reproach this government for what you cannot reproach this government for because to fuel your argument you have to make use of statements made by people who are not part of this government – who will be of the same party or other institutions, but who exercise their legitimate rights – and that it is precisely you, when this matter has recently been brought to the General Council of the Judiciary, precisely in relation to statements made..., and very harsh, because it is that the Minister of the Interior came to say..., if that had been done by a political-administrative authority – referring to a judicial resolution – at this time you would be accused of a possible crime of prevarication, the daily La Razón... Look, if I get to say this, what you could blame me here. I have not said this, no one in this Government has said anything like, or by far, this which the Minister of the Interior said and which immediately provoked the reaction of 13 of the 18 magistrates of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. This government, when it has reason to blame us for acting critical of judicial decisions... That we're not going to give up doing it when we think it's necessary to do it. Of course, I have said that criticism of judicial decisions is legitimate, provided that certain limits are respected, provided that criticism does not involve accusation, does not involve complaint. It is, of course, that judicial decisions, such as those of this Parliament and those of any other public authority, are subject to criticism. They will not tell me that the only public authority whose decisions cannot be criticized is that of judges and courts, do not tell me that it is. I mean, I've started out there sitting down the general doctrine about what it looks like... You also refer to a few words from the President of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, but the President of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, what you have said is that there is freedom of expression; that he does not like them, that he does not share the things that have been said, believes they are excessive, but that he welcomes them with freedom of expression. He said: "Freedom of expression welcomes those and other more barbarities." That is what he has said, but he has not denied that they are welcome in freedom of expression; that he does not share them, that they seem disproportionate to him, but that they are welcome to freedom of expression, that gives them coverage of freedom of expression. That is why there has been no application for amparo to date here. In any case, I insist, I am not who to defend anyone here, but to speak on behalf of the Government in relation to what the Government has done. And the government has not made a single statement, in relation to the criticism that can be freely and legitimately exercised against judicial decisions – as against the resolutions of any other public authority – that it has exceeded the limits that I believe are insurmountable, that they involve in the disqualification and institutional and people's desorption; there it has not entered, and that is what I reaffirm at the moment. And of course the lehendakari has not done so, because in this very rostrum – I have said it clearly before and I have read it, in addition, the excerpt from the Journal of Sessions – in this same rostrum he made a basic and fundamental statement of respect for judicial decisions and procedures in this and other matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u90	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. fourteen points in theme list: "Quoolfo Ares Tabala, a member of the Socialists, made to the president about 2013-2016 peace and co-operation of the planet." Mr. Ares, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, 16 months ago your Government approved your Peace and Co-existence Plan. And I stress "his" because they approved it without accepting any suggestions from the opposition groups; therefore, without agreement with any of the parliamentary groups, except the Basque Nationalist Party; with the rejection of the associations of victims of terrorism and also with the rejection of the Spanish Government. His Government, rather than opting to strengthen and develop with this plan the agreements that had so much to do in the past legislature on peace, memory and coexistence, chose the opposite. And that, in our opinion – we said it at the time – was a bad start. A bad start that also augured the failure of his plan, lehendakari. We think that after these 16 months, beyond the development of programs with solemn names, beyond the hiring of reports to tutiplen, his Government's record in this matter is disappointing. And yet, against all evidence, your Secretary of Peace and Coexistence on many occasions and you have recently made highly positive assessments of the achievements achieved by the plan. That is why we ask you what the reasons that lead you to make such a satisfactory assessment despite the evidence on the objectives obtained from the Peace and Co-existence Plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ares. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ares, of the agreement of the Council of the Government that I have commissioned by this House to approve the Peace and Co-existence Plan, and of the contributions of members of the parliamentary groups and whether or not they have been taken into account, with the approval of other parliamentary groups, in this plan rather than that of the parliamentary group that supports the Basque Government, we could also talk a lot about the things that are said in meetings and what is then done, but in any case the Council of the Government's agreement itself regulated the system for the monitoring and evaluation of the Peace Plan. Thus, the interdepartmental committee of the plan has already produced two half-yearly follow-up reports which have been forwarded to this Parliament. They have shown that the 18 initiatives committed to in the plan are in progress with a satisfactory degree of compliance with the established forecasts. And this is an objective reality, not that I say it or that the Secretary General of Peace and Co-existence says it. We have expressed our satisfaction because we have fulfilled the commitment. We have made the clarification reports on the procedural situation of terrorist attacks, the investigation into torture or studies on persons under threat, our initiatives in public policies for the recognition and reparation of victims with the Agertu programme, the memory map or the Municipal Portraits of the violation of the right to life initiative. We have signed the agreement with the Basque universities. We have activated commitments in the field of Ertzaintza. We have collaborated at the European level with the Peace Programme or the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We have launched the Elkarrekin programme of coexistence culture, the Adi-Adian programme, the agreement with EITB and the Youth Council. I invite you, Mr Ares, to transcend the political microclimate and analyze the real impact of this plan, which precisely reflects the studies of the University of Deusto, the University of the Basque Country or the sociometer. I think it is clear that the social climate is satisfactory and that the assessment is therefore positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ares, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u95	Lehendakari, I have listened to you carefully, but let me tell you that we cannot commulgate with mill wheels, because hyperactivity or reporting cannot be confused with results. Because a simple analysis of the objectives set out in his plan shows that he has failed. If not, let's see. First, the plan stated that it aimed to contribute to disarmament and the effective end of ETA. Have you made any progress? No, no, And what is worse, the emphasis your Government places on disarmament and not on the final dissolution of ETA is a mistake. The second major objective of his plan was to get the microagreements. Any microagreements? No, no, And it is not possible to get microagreements because some of us are not going to be willing to lower ethical and democratic principles to achieve these agreements, we are not going to work to dilute responsibilities or facilitate the diluting of responsibilities, or the diluting of the responsibilities of those who supported and justified terrorism. In terms of memory, lehendakari, we are worse than two years ago, there is less consensus than two years ago, and the victims are further away from his Government. And they are, among other things, because, as Professor Peio Salaburu told them very well, his Peace and Coexistence Plan is not such, because it does not take up any words referring to murder, threats, kidnappings, extortion. Nor has there been any progress in prison policy, nor has there been. You have neither convinced the Government of Spain nor convinced ETA prisoners. And that is why I ask you to make self-criticism, I ask you to assume that your plan is not useful to advance and I urge you to move through the dialogue to recompose the agreements that we have reached in the past legislature; to, together, demand that ETA be dissolved definitively; to work together on a memory and a true account of what has happened in this country with the long years of terrorism; to, together, demand that the world of ETA and Lortu must assume the damage caused and recognize that there has never been or will be justification for practicing terrorist activities; to, together, develop an effective prison policy, not a toast to the sun, as you are proposing; to, together, ultimately, lehendakari, build a decent society and sustain coexistence in ethical and democratic values as we have agreed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ares. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ares, it really saddens me to hear these arguments again from you; it saddens me because they reflect that you do not even stop to read carefully what the text of the Peace Plan is, and I quote again the five commitments to which we are prepared, the five commitments that we put to all the groups of the House in that Peace and Co-existence Plan, and five commitments that I expressly express here, in this very rostrum, in the full monograph on conflict resolution. Five commitments I invite you to read if they do not correspond to all the demands you have made, Mr Ares. Look, I think you have come here to question the lehendakari or to ask the lehendakari only for one question, and it is for reference to Mr Salaburu's words regarding the words of murder, extortion or kidnapping, which are not contemplated in the Peace and Co-existence Plan. Look, the plan is criticized because it doesn't include the words murder, extortion or kidnapping. I was at the event of the Fernando Buesa Foundation, I listened to Mr Salaburu and it seemed absolutely unfair, unjust, and I say so. And it is true, but it is true that it also does not include the ethical soil that you approved with the Basque Nationalist Party and with Aralar in the last parliamentary term. It is true that those words do not include the Carlton Agreement signed by the previous government, of which you were a member – it is true that the López Government signed it with educational agents and does not include these terms – nor does it include the Plan for Democratic Coexistence and Delegitimization of Violence of the previous legislature. It is true that it does not contemplate them, Mr Ares, it does not contemplate them, and yet it is true that I have mentioned those words in the recognition of the unjust damage caused and in the critical reading of the past in the act of recognition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, M. del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Munez de Muninka, a member of the Popilative Groups of Economics, and the ground for the management and destruction of the damages produced by the meteorological phenomena. " Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, at a meeting held on 14 February 2013 ( exactly 22 months ago), a non-legislative proposal was adopted in this House calling on the Government, primarily, to two things: first, to draw up, as soon as possible, the regulation that develops the management of the disaster fund, as provided for in Article 84 of the Act on Agricultural and Food Policy of Euskadi, and to carry out an inventory of damage for each episode of flooding or effect that harms the primary sector. In addition, we called for an agreement between the competent administrations, owners, users and representatives of the primary sector of the areas surrounding the Zadorra, the southern rivers and other areas that are usually flooded, with the aim of urgently scheduling the necessary set of measures to effectively address the repeated floods that have taken place in the historical territory of Alava, always within the framework of the implementation of existing legislation. Madam Counsellor, we want to know the degree of compliance with this initiative adopted in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u100	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer it, Mrs. Tapia. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u101	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, as you rightly say, on 14 February 2013 a non-law proposal was adopted in this House, and I will report on compliance with it. At the Committee on Agricultural and Food Policy held on 12 November 2014, the Government submitted a draft decree regulating aid for catastrophic damage or damage caused by climatic events in the fields of agriculture, livestock, forestry and rural infrastructure, from the disaster fund. A one-month deadline was set for the outside parliaments to submit comments and suggestions, and none of this document has been received. With regard to the preparation of the flood damage inventory, we have those from 4 February 2013. The document prepared by the Foral Diputación de Álava on damage in various areas of the historical territory was received in the department. This department, of course, accepted the report as such, since it is the nearest administration and one that really has competence and knows what it is talking about. As a result, the Council of Deputies of the Foral Diputación de Álava, in its meeting of 29 January 2013, adopted an agreement requesting the declaration of a catastrophic zone to a number of areas, namely the municipalities of Arrazua, Iruña de Oca, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Elburg, Zalduondo and various municipalities of Montaña Alavesa and Valles Alaveses, because it said that the damage caused could be broken down into some 150 hectares of cultivation, as well as significant damage to rural roads and other agricultural infrastructure. According to the data on agricultural insurance in Álava, 83 % of the area of extensive crops is insured, and these are the crops that were basically affected. Among the risks covered by the insurance were those of flooding, torrential rain and persistent rain. In order to be eligible for the disaster fund, the risk should not be included in agricultural insurance; therefore, the initial assessment of this damage is considered not to be introduced within what is a catastrophic area. The damage to agricultural infrastructure was valued at approximately EUR 1,700,000; it was therefore decided not to qualify it as a catastrophic area, although it did contribute exceptionally to the financing of the repair of rural roads. They will remember that 2013 the budget was extended, with a disaster fund of only 100,000 euros, and therefore the Basque Government published a resolution on 13 December 2013 and the call for aid was made for the financing of the repair of rural roads in this territory. And a total of around EUR 3 million was granted. This is the situation with regard to the disaster fund and its management.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u103	Madam Counsellor, the reality is that today, April 2015, 6 years and 4 months after the adoption of this law, Chapter VI of the Act on Agricultural and Food Policy, Articles 83 and 84 is not complied with. The desire of the 2008 nationalist Government of the Nationalist Group Councillor in 2008 is clearly demonstrated on its own initiative, not on the initiative of anyone, on its own initiative, that it was the will of the Government and, therefore, necessary, that this law should include a specific chapter of catastrophic damage, which regulates the declaration of a catastrophic zone and its consequences, and the creation of a disaster fund and the minimum requirements for its benefit, and to this day that is not regulated. I'd like to know if you're committed to law enforcement or not, or we're going to go on without law enforcement. As I said, this law is still not being regulated; therefore, it is failing to comply with the law, because the Budgets for this year no longer cover, in 2015, no longer cover the departure of the disaster fund. They don't look at her anymore. They've invented a game that's "risk management." What is "risk management"? What does the government and its department mean by "risk management"? We don't know what he's responding to. Therefore, it is failing to comply with the law, because the law says that the Budgets will have a specific item, "Cascade Fund", and in 2015 there is no such item and it is also still not regulated; therefore, counselor, I think you have some outstanding duties that you have to do. I would like to know what criterion you have for the full development of this law and whether it is really the will of your Government to develop it. What we know so far and what they have presented to us is scarce and, to a large extent, is part of the work of the previous Government. It is clear that its management capacity is widely improveable. It is shown that the PNV knew how to manage with two parameters: economic abundance and broad customer network. When those two parameters are weak, they have forgotten to manage. It is clear and demonstrated; not only in this topic, in number of topics. So, counselor, is your will to comply with the law, to develop this law? Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u104	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer it, Mrs. Tapia. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u105	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, this last one, and I'm not going in, really, it's not worth it. We have, of course, worked on the preparation of the decree, then in the corresponding decree of catastrophic areas must be regulated – I understand – what is considered... Therefore, do not make me repeat to you certain things that I have already said to you in the first intervention. Secondly, we have also worked with a guide to good practices in the maintenance of waterways, rivers and streams, fulfilling what was said in this GNP. The catastrophic area as such, you know perfectly well that it does not exist and that it is not well defined in any law, then that rating is not adequate and it is the risk management one that appears; that is why it is within the budget in that way. We have a departure, and, moreover, it is that for the last flood there is a government decree to deal with it; therefore, Mrs López de Ocariz, do not come to me with that we do not do the things to be done, because it is actually observed that it is true.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Ichasus González, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the United States, made to the Chief of Emplegues, and of the Polic Society, concerning the public in the hands of those who are empty." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u107	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, counselor. On 26 March, the parliamentary groups present in this House agreed to pursue an initiative by this parliamentary group, the Socialist Group, which called on the Government to carry out a campaign to facilitate the occupation of vacant premises in public promotions and to build on a programme for the establishment of businesses and the promotion of job creation for SMEs, etc. Well, the question, basically, is when they plan to take the measures that were adopted in that parliamentary agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u108	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u109	The head of the table, members of the legislature, chief of the department, is a good day. Mr Itxaso, before Parliament even adopted the agreement you mentioned, the Department of Employment and Social Policy, from the Vice-Council for Housing and through Visesa, had already begun to explore this possibility of putting all its resources to facilitate not only access to housing, which is its essential objective, but also to facilitate the drive of the economic entity and of employment, because housing policies fulfil two objectives: on the one hand, substantial, which are social policies, and on the other, second, generating economic activity and employment, in their constructive and rehabilitating facet. Six months ago, exactly on 21 October 2014, different proposals for the dynamism of commercial premises were presented at the Visesa Board of Directors. Measures such as rental with incentives, the conversion of premises to housing in this case in the capitals of the historical territories that have municipal regulations for this purpose, and a stock exchange of premises for entities for social inclusion. In addition, from 16 March to 31 March, a three-way communication campaign was launched (from our website, from Visesa offices and also from the media), informing about the commercial premises offered for rent and also about those offered with an option of purchase with important incentives to encourage entrepreneurship among people who choose to start a business, including self-employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u110	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u111	Thank you very much, Counselor. Indeed, the spokesman for the Nationalist parliamentary group, in the debate he had at that time, had already anticipated, in fact, that the Government had been working in this direction for months. The questions that we ask from our group, what they seek is to know the degree of actualization of the agreements, because, although it is true that they have been working for months in this entire park of premises, of unoccupied bass commercials, almost more than a hundred, the purpose and spirit of the question is to know when they will be destined for the end for which that agreement was adopted. Because, of course, if they have been working for so long, it would be reasonable to think that at this point in time those government actions, those jobs, and that that empty space park were already destined for those entrepreneurship activities, those economic activities. And that's why our insistence, because beyond rhetoric and explanations always complacent with oneself – we all do it, yes, we all do it, it's not a matter of government – what we want is to see concrete materialization, realization. That is, if in the reply written in his day of how many had given a number of 112, but thanks to the agreement we adopted with the Nationalist Group it was extended to all the premises – because we were talking about those that took more than 12 months, but, finally, all of them – what we want to know is when that stock of empty premises is actually going to be destined for these people, for these activities. This is the nuclear issue, because I understand that, in fact, work is done, of all kinds, but what we want to see from the opposition are the results, the results. The explanations come well, they are manageable, we believe them, but we want to see that materialization, that concreteness, and that is what we expect from this question. That is to say, for when do you think, Mr. Counsellor, that this agreement will be completed in a reality and that these empty premises will be permanently occupied by entrepreneurship and economic activity activities?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u112	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u113	Thank you. I will start by telling you, Mr Itxaso, that when the department and Visesa make houses, certainly, about the location of the buildings in which we make those houses, the decision is not made that the premises that naturally leave the construction of the houses are the ideal places for them to be occupied as commercial premises, and therefore residential criteria are used and, therefore, indeed, many of those premises are not attractive, because of the great offer and effort we put in. That said, at the moment from Visesa we have an offer of 121 premises for rent or rent with option of purchase in the three territories and with good conditions – another thing is that to those who come they seem enough or not –: lack of six to nine months in the payment of the rent to do works of reform, 25% for six months for each job that they generate, with a maximum of 50% bonus. And we also have 115 others that are owned by the Department of Employment and Social Policy and are managed by delegations. And our intention here is to apply the same conditions to all government premises. We, what we can do is to make available to the people who want these premises, but, obviously, that they are then directed to us to ask for them depends on other factors that sometimes escape our own possibilities, and I have told you that the first of them is the inadequacy of many of them to be used as commercial premises that then bring profitability to those who will rent them, rent them or buy them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u114	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Estoyon Breñas González de Zarále de Zárete EH Collector's member of the Cultural Department of Education, Policy, and Cultural Society, the Bellas Arts Palace, the monumental nomination, the general list of Eus Kulcera Orientals." Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u115	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. The EHU, EHU, Euskal Geography, the Basque Society, the Basque Society, the Basque Society, and the International Society, the Aranzadi, the Society of Spain, and the IDEC. She came in the July with the file she had started last year's September, but half because she was a Cultural Inventario by Bellas Arts. For one thing, it was a positive measure that he avoided building, but we thought it wasn't enough, because he didn't protect the palace as a whole, just as a lot of experts and funk and funk and the Mudal Foru of Gipuz and technical services from the Ordree Arlo. Euska Kultura Oriental law determines two levels: and secondly, "Much ago, Cultural Inventario of the two selected Cultural Inventario, which does not acknowledge the particular value of the building, is the weakest degree of protection that could be given by fun. And that's a decision that contradicts the records of the art technicians of the "Mušoze Arlo," and against what the viceroy had foretold in May last year, when he said that he would give him the level of protection of the two Cultural Calgificdo. So, if that's what you're talking about, it's not like that, and in front of that, the Kultural Committee came to discuss the subject last November 24th, and the committee agreed to call down the St. Bellas Palace as a monumental category Kultur House of Arts. Baina aitzitik, aurtengo martxoaren 4ko Gobernuaren Aginduak Euskal Kultura Ondarean Zerrenda Orokorrean sartzen of the Fine Arts Jauregia, éta ez kalifikatu gisa. Gogoratu dezagun Ondare Zuzendaritzeren irizpen teknikoa. Gazteleraz jaso nuen bere egunean paragrapha eta gazteleraz irakuriko dut: "The building Bellas Artes is undoubtedly a bearer of sufficient cultural values, both formal and constructive, typological, urbanistic and significant as well as to be part of the Basque cultural heritage with the category of monument". Hori, batik. Eta Icomos-ek ere bere egunean horrela adierazi zuen: "Public administrations must ensure the preservation of a cultural good of such high significance for the regional and national cultural heritage, not being admissible in our opinion not only its demolition to build an uncultivated falsification of the building itself, but also any alteration of its structure, space and internal formal values that undermines its architectural and conceptual unity". So it's fun to negotiate with La Sade, but it's always what the experts say and respect the Parliament approved. And that's when you reach the level of BCC protection. In front of this, the following question is: Did you hear anything about the protection level of the Donostian Bellassen Palace and the Palace of Bellas Arts, with the monumental category, intend to make the Kultural Bill of Sales? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u116	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. In reply, Mrs. Uri until she's a member of the New Year's House has a word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u117	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mrs. Breñas, do you think we're going to fulfill what this legislature has accepted? Yes, of course. It is not only that we have plans, but that we have already fulfilled them. It's just the fun that's accepted the cultural value of Bellas Arts Palace from the very first moment. Thus we have insisted upon the parliament in the presence of the Donostian Council or of the intermediary; for the file was opened at the end of the year's September, and it has already been settled in the appointed term. In order to do this, the phase of public information and of appellations has already taken place, a council of consultations and economic examinations have been made to repair the building, and to estimate the reforming of the building. As a result of these previous steps, and following the recommendations, the best alternative is the protection of the building by including it in the General Inventory of the Basque Cultural Heritage, so that conservation and use can be compatible as the best formula to guarantee the future of the building. Eta zioan galdetzen zenuen bezala, regarding the economic commitment, the Basque Government, with the building Bellas Artes, in the budget of 2015 includes an item of 40,000 euros for the elaboration of the project of consolidation and restoration of the building.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u119	Well, then, you have confirmed my reason: You have entered as BCI and not as BCC, as it was determined by both Cultural Inventariando y no Calificard, as was decided on this legislature, and you will not respect what was approved by this parliamentor. And I wanted to ask you where the President's due respect for the Parliament has been proclaimed at seven o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u120	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. Thank you. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u121	Ms. Breñas, I think that's what we've been doing. We've got to follow the procedures established, the experts, the technicians, and the professionals, take care of what we're talking about and make decisions. I mean, we're not going to go in front of what experts and professionals tell us. I mean, what we've done is, what we have done is done well, it's not decided somewhere... There's a procedure here in this government that we're doing, if that's what we're supposed to do, whether they're qualified for, professionals, and commissions, to find out what we're going to do. And that's what we did. It's not because we want to do that. That's why we say we do it. I mean, we've been able to figure out how far we have to protect ourselves and we've been told to "we have to protect ourselves here," and we've gone all the way up to it, that's what we've done. That's why we're saying it. The government clearly sees that building is 20. but it must be admitted that the constructions are not peculiar to the architectial characteristics which might be regarded as productive goods as the original cinematian of the age. There's the difference between backup levels. In addition to this, the following points have been taken into account to protect them as an inventory of goods: First, the conservation status of the Palacio Bellas Artes is not of architectural ruin, although it presents some problems arising from water filtration. Secondly, the work needed to consolidate the building is quantified at around €700,000 or €800,000, not $2 million, as stated. In addition, those amounts are eligible under the protection granted. And, thirdly, one thing that is crucial is that for the proper preservation of the building it is necessary to ensure a reuse compatible with the protected building. Therefore, it has been decided to protect the building as a well-invented building, admitting any kind of tertiary, public, equipment, administrative or residential use, and allowing the opening of new openings of the exterior facade provided that they are necessary for the intended uses and are authorized by the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council and the Advisory Council of Monumental Architectural Heritage of Euskadi. This is the proper level of protection given to maintain the balance between the preservation, preservation, and use of a special building, and the use of the eye-witness values.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u122	Thank you, chief physician, thank you. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask you, Estostia 2016 against the Spanish treaty signed by the Ministry of Culturage." Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u123	Thanks again. The Ministry of Culture has just accused Donostia of a treaty signed between 2016 and the Council. In March 18th, President Juan Charles Izagir of the Mayor and Fundtation called a meeting to treat the subject; it was evident that the Ministry of Cultura would hold the complaint, but there was no occasion for laughter to vote for the retreat and bring the subject to itself, but you didn't do it. So, the complaint is going on with funcrew support, so the Foundation had to make up his mind to defend himself at that meeting, but in that second vote, I'm sure, I'm sure, but in that second vote, that's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm talking about. With this attitude, you have defended a measure against the Council and the Foundation, a measure against the eudo and Donostia 2016, and you have compromised your plan of setting up a higher meeting in the language, and you will disguise your technical problem, that it is a matter of error, that the public summons should be made, and that it is therefore permitted, or that you may say that it was a complaint of the State's attorney to take care of you. Whatever you want, it's a disgrace to you. If it's a technical problem, if it's a matter of form, it can be solved differently, right? Was the question of judicializing necessary? The technical issues are solved differently, and they're not being charged. There are many questions that can be asked: Is a democratic decision to be brought to court? Are the differences that can be created in a project based on each other, to be solved in the court? Where are all the promises you made to protect the project? For what is really in this is merely a trap. The Spanish Government is of no importance to the Euscan; and the lawyer of Spain is constantly attacking the Basque Sea, the business of the townships is only to be mentioned, and we must place this accusation there, and take it as an indirect attack against the Euscan of the Spanish Government. How is it possible for you to take a position in that business, and in this case it's completely opposite? Don't keep that kind of engagement, question the agreements you made, hinder the project. That's the way and the style of the Spanish Ministry. And, uh, I'm so sorry, that's where it came from. And if it's signed with the Council, it's because it was originally discussed, because in 2013 the record of the present was signed, and no one else was interested or made any proposal. And then came the lamentable expressions of April 1st of the vice squad of Muñoz. In Jošo I considered him as a professional and direct person, who sought the benefit of our culture and country over parties, but I believe that Donostia, with his attitude to 2016, has been disappointed in many active agents and persons in the sector, including me. And won't Mr. Muñoz agree with the diagnosis of the Council on the eucalyptus? Is it not that M. Muñoz does not admit of the different views on the Basque Sea and wants to impose a single relatto? It's a good thing they're bigger in Europe, and Donostia 2016's project has got its approval and its success. And when we arrive here, the question is this: Is there any intention of making a treaty signed by M. M.M. and, consequently, of defending the Council that participates in 46 social institutions of the eucatitude? That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u124	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u125	President andrea. Mrs Breñas, we've already said what we have to say about this subject. He spoke very clearly at the press conference that was held 15 days ago by the deputy chief of the Culturas: The Council does, but not just the Council. In any case, let's not forget that this business now is not the current one. This poemic history began in 2013, December 2013, which is precisely at a meeting called Patrotua to accept the budgets of 2016 Foundation. The first vestiges of this project appeared there, and I said it myself, and it's as if it had to be lifted up, that the coordination needed so much to go on, with fun, with other associations, institutions, and operators. And that's how I conditioned the budget test. Not long ago we found out that all this had been done secretly in the Chinese shield, not knowing anything about it by the members of the Patrotus. The agreement frame was signed in November 2013 with the Council. Thus entered the council with the decision of signing the treaty, incorporating and evading it, against the principal values of 2016. We know that the Council is the centre of several social associations of eucharization. Each of these societies has its personality, its career, its work scope, its image in society and its educations. With these 46 associations we have a relationship, normalized, continuous, excruciating relationship from HPS and Cultural. But the Council can't replace all these associations. I think it's much more logical to work together than in the other projects of 2016 (for instance, project 284+). We're working together with a lot of them, and the Council is also middle-class. This is the formula we defend: with all those associations, with the Council and its special personality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u127	With your permission, I'll talk from the spot. As I said before, you may disguise it as you like, but yesterday look at the Chief Representative of Arbata, exposing the cultural henofphobia of PP, the Basques who called us Morralla. Well, this is the context, the context we've got, and it's all settled down there. And I, we, sit in the morilla: It's funny, it's bad. It's bad, and I'm proud of it, and I'm proud of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u128	Thank you, Mrs Breñas, thank you. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u129	Mrs Breñas, you say it's bad for this kind of love, but you don't forget that the partnership of institutions and of social operatings and that the active attachment of society is indispensable to the process of reforming. To leave the assembly of nations in the hands of a single higher assembly, with regard to the institutions, contrary to the agents of society and the institutions of the people, is fatal to the reviving of the eucalyptus. Being so important a subject, we cannot leave our thoughts, agreement, and co-operation. It's a lot more of us to keep than that. I've had a lot of effort to get a seat in Europe. To criticize the exclusiveness of this Council and the way the mayor's trial is about to impose on the Basque Council, just like you did, it's not to go against the eucalyptus. For all this reason, our unionr was handed over to him by the Mayor, who has also concealed it from him; he has, as well as to the European gathering of various languages, a high meeting with the Council, but he has concealed the proposal from us not only with the Council, but in our own country, with those who do great works in the establishment of manifold languages, together with the organizations and operators. And in that group of jobs we include ourselves, don't hesitate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The twentieth point in the theme list: "The question is, Monsieur Isabel Céla Céguez, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to the head of the Board of Education, of Language, and of the Cultural Communciations." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u131	Mila esker, andrea president. Mrs Uriarte, since 1985 we have had competition in scholarships and study aid in this Community. We are de facto the only autonomous community that has them. We can mark characteristics, requirements, quantities, etc. The fellowships we have been convoking for all these years and, of course, have been very expected and very well valued by the community and, above all, by university students. They are aimed, as you well know, at the university student of the last course and are intended precisely to incorporate them, to connect them with the world of employment, in teaching centres and, above all, in research groups, in activities connected with their studies. Where are those fellowships this year? When are you going to summon them?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u133	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Kolabion scholarships have had a long walk since they transferred in 1985, as you say. Ever since then, among the great students, they have been a conjugated to excite the passion of inquiry. But like all programs, it took a long time to make a revision, which in recent years these scholarships didn't work well: on the one hand they did not assign all the scholarships (especially 25% of the scholarships remained empty); on the other hand, many of the students complained that they did not complete their goals, and in some cases the pupil would apply himself to other idle occupations than the inquiry. Therefore, this programme needed a review. You yourselves realized this and made some changes to the 2011-2012 call. However, these changes were still not sufficient. In order to improve the objective of sensitizing students and encouraging research vocations, this issue was raised within the university plan. The universities of the Basque university system are now in the design of a different call to promote the research vocation with the appropriate incentives and results. The aim is to launch a pilot call this same year, aimed at promoting the research vocation for graduate and master's students in which research groups are more directly involved. The main axis must be the guarantee that the student is introduced to research, to taste for discovery and concern for social challenges. Once this pilot call has been made, the results will be analyzed in order to implement a definitive call in the Basque university system that fulfills the task of generating interest and awakening research vocations among students.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u135	Yes, Mrs. Uriarte. I cannot agree with that assessment that you make that the fellowships didn't work well. If they did not work well, what is appropriate is to make the necessary changes, as has been done since the previous Government. You say that they are in the University Plan, but here you are looking for them and we look for them and we do not find them in the University Plan; neither do we find them, nor do the universities find them; therefore, you will tell me exactly where the fellowships are. The fellowships, you inherited them in 2012 with a budget allocation of approximately 700,000 euros. You reduced it in 2013, in your 2013 call, despite being a budget extension, to 500,000 euros (200,000 euros less). 2014 came back with half a million euros and 2015 doesn't show up. You, Mrs Uriarte, have not had a good chapter of scholarships since you have government powers: scholarships are delayed, I don't know if you have fixed that in the general scholarships even this 2015 budget has not included the scholarships of the 2015-2016 course – an important mistake, an important mistake – with you have disappeared the scholarships of excellence, very, very important to increase and stimulate talent, they have disappeared, they are only called grants of excellence, linked to the general scholarships, prostitution the name; with you have disappeared the scholarships of languages in a globalized world that needs foreign languages as a unique tool, and with you, Mrs Uriarte, the fellowships of collaboration disappear. You tell me, ma'am, how you are going to contribute from your sector to that employment plan that you say you want to stimulate this government from the civil service. With what? With what? Because the predoctoral scholarships, which are contracts, have been reduced by almost 30%. Lehen aukera, according to the words of the representative of the Government himself, of the spokesman himself, has not given, is not giving the desired results. Your OPE, ma'am, stayed in 240 places when they needed 1,000. You tell me, ma'am, how, without fellowships, they also incorporate into the world of employment, into the activity of research, how from your sector you will contribute to the promotion of employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u137	Starting almost at the end, Mrs. Celaá. Being able to agree on different points with you, I do not agree that the fellowships encourage or help encourage the employment of the student; it is simply not a scholarship but an aid, because the student is given a dossier, not for economic needs. And, besides, it was usually to perform a series of tasks (departments, services, etc., of the university) that could be better or worse, in some cases they could be right, but in others many did not and, altogether, did not serve; simply, what was their vocation was to foster that research vocation, that is, to get the student to worry, to like to investigate, to know, and really that is the goal. And what we do determine..., that is why we have said that the fellowships, having that objective, did not meet that objective, and that is why, according to the universities, what we are trying to analyze within the university plan and what is going to be implemented is a pilot program of aids for the promotion of the research vocation in undergraduate and master's students. And that's what we're working on. What we are trying to do is to promote these vocations, this training in research itself, so that later, once students start working in research groups and train themselves in the field of research, they can take the leap to what is the business fabric, to R & D, and, really, there they can actually have a vocation to generate employment. We also care that the students have these aids in order to really get to that point, but just as we care about integrating the student himself and giving him that training, strict management and allocation of public funds is also a priority for the Government. It is not just about giving money, but it is necessary to monitor the effectiveness of the resources allocated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u138	Thank you, chief. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, "The question is, "The question is, "The members of the Society of the Ezarbaster have been made to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the health view of ecological food." Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u139	Good noon, everyone. In the 20th of March, the World's Department of Health introduced the black list of products that might produce cancer, the survival that is now most commonly used in agriculture, the survival created by Monsant. In any case, we know that chemical products in the last decades are more and more used to produce food and even to transform it. And this use is, moreover, always in order to increase economic profits; it is usually to diminish the labor, to speed up production, to acquire income, always to exploit the economic profits of the great corporations. There are great corporations who cultivate chemicals, and these corporations sell on one side to us the chemical products of agriculture, and then, on the other hand, the same corporations sell us diseases to cure diseases, and business is organized around them. So things are getting more and more people buying ecological products or ecological food, because food and health are both going together, and what we want to know is that, from a health point of view, the ecological food understands the nourishment as a healthy habit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u140	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. Lazarobaster jauna, osasuntsu egoteko, elikadura egokia eta orekatua behar dugu; ondo jateak osasuna dakar. Horretan will watch bi kontu beti gogoan hartu beharrekoak. There are basically two aspects to consider when analyzing the relationship between food and health: the composition of the diet and, as you have rightly pointed out, the safety of food. I would also like to use the question to remind you that eating fresh fruits and vegetables, reducing the intake of saturated fats and red meats, reducing the intake of salt and reducing alcohol consumption have proven their relationship with greater and better life expectancy. That is, we each have the capacity to take measures that will improve our health, if we take care of our habits and, among them, food. We need to eat well to be healthy; if we eat well, we shall have health for a long time. As far as food safety and biological and chemical pollution are concerned, it is important, as you have also pointed out, that both factors are controlled. In this regard, I can assure you that the Directorate of Public Health and Addictions is working. Management technicians usually monitor and control both types of pollution. Chemical residues and contaminants in food, both animal and plant, are closely monitored and, when detected, measures are taken within the scope of legality. From the Department of Health we advocate a healthy diet, in line with the recommendation to minimize additives and other chemicals, both in food processing and food preparation. That is why, and in response to your specific question, we believe that organic food is healthy, understanding that when talking about organic food it is clear that it is foods that lack added chemicals, but it is also true that the rest of the food on the market today, we understand that they have guarantees of safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u142	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u143	Yeah, the answer wasn't as clear as I wanted. The direction, it looks like it's in there, but not so clean. It is clear from the collected EH that his whole life is not the same in the free egg or air of a chicken who spends his life in a cage, the egg of a hen who lives in a sun-burning sun. And in the same sense we see that it is not the same to burn or destroy the grass in the gutter with a lamed that can produce cancer, but that it is not the same to get the grass out of hand or shovel. And we're clear of that, and it seems to us that even if you've settled a little in that direction from the Medical Department, there's still a contradiction in this, and that from the Department of Farming there's an ecological farm, as well as from the Medical Department, there's a little bit of value from the medical department, but Mrs. Org.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u144	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Answer me, Mr. Darpón.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u145	Well, as I have pointed out, the consumption of organic products seems right to us. It is obvious that in the example you have set of a chicken that bites the ground and runs, because it is probably more nutritious and can even have a better flavor, which does not mean that the rest of the foods that come out of the market today do not have enough controls to be guaranteed for health safety. From the Basque Government we promote healthy food, we promote actions to promote good eating habits in the population and also to control the safety of foods that come for sale. As you know and appear in the Health Plan, we are working on a food health strategy, which will focus on five areas of action: the production sector, the processing sector, the monitoring of food quality and safety, the monitoring of food consumption patterns and the information given to the population and the training of the population. For the development and development of the strategy that we are working on right now we will count on the collaboration of the agricultural sector, we will count on the processing industry, with the catering and catering sector, we will also have representatives of education – the school eaters seem very important to us and the university – and we also understand that the media when it comes to improving consumption habits are important. I think it will be a good measure and a good tool – we will bring it to Parliament along with the other measures launched following the 2013-2020 Health Plan – and that it can contribute to making Basque society a healthier society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u146	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Subject list point of twenty-three: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez, the deputy of the Basque Groups of the Pogula, was made for the chief department of the Environmental and Regional Policians concerning the floods of Zalla Town." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. As you all know, last January the entire Encartada area, but especially the municipality of Zalla, suffered serious floods, undoubtedly the most serious of recent years. But this situation is not new, since this municipality, although not so intensely, has suffered the growing of Cadagua on numerous occasions. This time, the heavy rains, together with the outstanding hydraulic works of great time, caused a significant drowning in the municipality, which according to the Insurance Compensation Consortium amounts to three million euros. Housing and business were affected, with this in economic and personal terms, as well as municipal facilities built with the effort of all the neighbors such as the football field, the recently finished multisport court or the ground floor of a school, which were destroyed by the water. There is a framework agreement to prevent the flooding of this municipality by carrying out works in three areas (in Ibarra, Mimetiz and Aranguren). As the question says, the first work to alleviate the situation of the municipality and prevent flooding was to implement the Mimetiz project, which would eliminate the risk for 2,600 neighbors. The initial approval was scheduled for March, although we have known that the draft has just been approved very recently, and it seems that this April or May, after the allegations, will be the final approval. And already after the approval of this project he would be ready to contest the works for the execution of it. What happens is that that end is not so clear. The work would amount to around six and a half million euros, which we believe is essential to implement as soon as possible, but what should exist is a budget item allocated to this effect, and this, we do not know if it exists in this budget or if it is necessary to wait until 2016 for the works to materialize and the anguish that Zalla's neighbors live every time it rains can cease. And the same is true of the Aranguren neighborhood, the one most punished, no doubt, by the floods, and we do not know whether the public contest for the drafting of the project has already begun in relation to this neighborhood. That is why the question is clear: we want to know what are the short and medium-term plans by your Government to deal with the hydraulic infrastructure in the two neighbourhoods and to try to prevent the flooding in the municipality of Zalla.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u148	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u149	Thank you, ma'am. Indeed, as you have rightly pointed out, a resolution of the Director General of URA has recently been published in the Official Gazette of Bizkaia, which initially approves and submits to public information the project of defense against floods of the Cadagua river as it passes through Mimetiz, in the term of Zalla. The objective of the implementation of this project is to protect the urban area of Zalla for avenues, in periods of return of a hundred years. There are a number of hydraulic solutions envisaged in this project: on the one hand, the replacement of the bridge of the Charco by another of greater hydraulic section; a new bridge of 41 meters of light will be made without supports in the channel; on the other hand, a short dry or channel of derivation will be created between sports facilities and the sector of Aretxaga in order to function as a second channel in episodes of high water. This whirlwind in whose bottom the Soiano stream will flow will generate a green space of leisure in low waters and will accommodate much of the flow of the high waters. In addition, a new bridge over the Aretxaga court has been included in the project. Finally, the drainage section above the Charco Bridge will also be expanded, with a mainly left-hand side of the river. As you have rightly pointed out, it is exposed to the public, it is in period of allegations and in a fairly immediate way we will be able to stand before the final approval of this project, and from there write the necessary credits, since – we hope – it is among our priorities and we want to put it in place as soon as possible. But there is also a previous question, which is to make available to URA the land necessary for the execution of the work, which is what the city council should do. The city council will make the land available to us and we will do our utmost to bid it as soon as possible, this work that we understand, indeed, as a matter of utmost priority. As for the area of Aranguren, we are defining a project with the aim of increasing the hydraulic capacity of the Cadagua River as it passes through it, so as to reduce the risk of flooding. The effect of the different obstacles and the need for replacement or demolition of these (the water bridge below the neighborhood, the two Feve bridges, the access bridge to the Aranguren waste bin and the sugar bridge of Pastguren) will be studied in detail. The solution will certainly go through the removal or replacement of the obstacles that exist, in addition to the increase in hydraulic capacity in some sections of the channel, but we are still in the process of defining these works.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Well, counselor, the truth is that Zalla, along with the rest of the Encartaciones, is an area that you feel forgotten by the Basque Government and you feel forgotten by the Basque Nationalist Party. And she also feels ill-treated and unequal in terms of other municipalities. Let us hope that in the execution of these works and in the treatment of the hydraulic works, the color of the city council, which does not coincide with the color of his Government, will not be an obstacle to the real fulfillment of what has been said on many occasions, which is a priority. Because when we talked about the works in the Aranguren neighborhood, you promised that the elimination of flooding in this area would be a priority, and yet today you have not given deadlines or committed yourself. In the demolition of the dam, it would lower the water sheet on the avenues in ten years, and it is true that the concession of this dam is about to conclude, but it has not said anything about it either. The truth is that today we have not taken a compromise from him, and it is easy because the allegations are going to be few; because this has been published for a long time, this project, with which the allegations are going to be quick. The issue is that there is first budgetary allocation, which we do not know because he has not told us whether there is one in this budget and whether there is going to be one for the next, and that there is a political will to get the works prioritized and the works started as soon as possible. And neither have you, here today, said anything about that political will. He said it'll be done as soon as possible. But the question, I say, is money, budgetary allocation and political will. And I think it is an obligation of this government not to remember Santa Barbara when it thunders – and never better said – but to remember now. Prioritize now and execute the works now. Because I think, regardless of who rules in the municipality...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u152	Thank you, Miss Llanos. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u153	Thank you. Look, Mrs Llanos, in hydrological planning there is a plane, several planes, with the black dots of the Autonomous Community, the black dots in the matter of floods. Based on this, hydrological planning and the knowledge we have about our territory, the actions are proposed, also taking into account our budgetary availability. And as far as I've seen that plane, which I've seen many times, it has black dots, it has no colored dots. It doesn't have green, red, blue dots... No, they're black. They're all black. And we act on the basis of the prioritization that the different plans mark for us and taking into account the budget availability, of course. Virtually the total investment capacity of URA is intended for flood prevention and correction of these black spots. This is one. I told you it's one of our priorities. And we need not only budgetary appropriations, we also need the land, the two things. I know that the city council is applied to it and that it is going to be, and that the allegations, indeed, as you say, will surely be resolved in an easy way. I hope so, I trust so. And in the meantime the city council is engaged in the land and we in the appropriation of the necessary credits. And among all of us, we're going to solve the problems. That's the point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-17.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and twenty-six in the afternoon.
