ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "About the plan of Peace and Counciation," "The Journals of the Journals of the Journals of the People." Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u1	Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Last Tuesday, the Council of Government has created the Memorial Institute of Memory, Collaboration, and Human Rights. As soon as his director is designated, this parliament answers to the commitments made in the law of the Jestzac Party and the Social Party of Euskata. Yesterday it was made public, and they're in the Historic Archive of the Museum and the structure of the Union. At yesterday's plenary session Parliament elected with a broad consensus both parliamentarians and experts who will represent it on the Board of Directors of the Institute of Memory. In the absence of the new deputies and Eudel designating their representatives, the institute will officially open on November 10th, Memory Day in Euskadi, putting in this way a golden brooch to this initiative. This appointment coincides in time with other initiatives also related to peace and coexistence, and in particular to the recognition of victims. In particular, a draft law on victims of police abuse has been announced in recent weeks, with the aim of institutional recognition and redress of this group and at the same time avoiding possible legal insecurities in the necessary official recognition of these victims. This announcement recently received an important impetus from the plenary of Parliament, adopting a non-legislative proposal with an unknown consensus to date. Also a few days ago, the Basque Government held two working days with associations of victims and victims of terrorism throughout the State. The act of Donostia, in which you, Mr Lehendakari, delivered a sense and brilliant speech, has been extraordinarily valued and recognized by many victims and their main associations. In the face of all this activity, the responsibility of this Parliament remains stagnant. We are proving today incapable of activating the Ponencia de Paz y Convivencia, a paper that should have been promoting and monitoring the Peace and Coexistence Plan for a long time. In the meantime, I'm sure the 18 offers promised in peace and partnership in the planet are the difficult ones. Not only this is the public evaluation, and it is manifest that it is a positive degree of perfection. When the last year of the law is about to begin, Mr. President, what are the plans of fun in the land of peace and life, watching the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u3	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Our first plan is to fill peace and fellowship with the whole plan: We'll be working in five areas before the law is over. First of all, it's to clear up what happened in the past. At the same time, to help victims, to confess, and to repay them, we must strengthen our memory, and in this respect the contribution of the new Memory Institute to which we are to prepare ourselves is of special importance. In the field of prison policy and re-contrivement, our two proposals; that is to say, in the right way and in the conference. Survival on the fifth floor together with several organizations and society, in conjunction with each other. And not only words, we follow the plan every six months, and its evaluation, even this time, will be useful for reflection, in order to improve our duty and commitment. Our commitment is to implement the Plan of Bread and Coexistence, first in the field of clarification of the past. Before the end of the year we will have the report on the impact of the threat and the report on Ertzaintza entrusted to the Institute of Human Rights of the University of Deusto. Also the study that this university is developing on the subject of extortion. The Basque Institute of Criminology will complete the investigation of torture in the summer of next year. On 30 and 31 October we will organize the first days on the values of self-criticism within the framework of the Zuzendu programme. Second. In the area of public victim policies, we will continue with policies of victim assistance, reparation and recognition. The Governing Council will adopt the Batera document in October, which, as a compromise, will continue the event we held on 5 June at the Days on Victims of Terrorism and Society. This autumn we will also present a proposal to adopt, as you have said, a law on the recognition of unrecognized victims of human rights violations caused by abuse of power, unlawful use of violence and para-police violence. Third, in the field of public memory policies, Gogora launched, the Institute of Memory, Co-existence and Human Rights; collaboration with the project of memorial of victims of terrorism; development of the twelve lines of action of the basic programme of priorities in the field of historical memory. Fourth, prison and reintegration policy: development of the proposals Zuzen Bidean and Hitzeman, trying to recover the state of penal and prison normality. Preparation for June next year of a detailed model of legal and viable reintegration adapted to our reality. Fifth, social policies of coexistence: experience of participation Plaza de la Memoria, promoting the consensus of outlaws and municipalities; extension of the agreement Gizalegez with educational agents, prioritizing the Adi-Adian programme; new content in the agreements with the three Basque universities, the Youth Council and EITB. We know there are other worlds of work, and we'll try to help them. Thus, the disarming of ETA is an inevitable step. We have offered support to the international inspectors, and we wish to remind them that the proposal proposed on December 1st, 2014, is in full force. and the method of labour which this proposition offers may be useful in order to obtain results by these inevitable steps. This is what we're trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Out of the way. Thank you, Mr. President. Simply to acknowledge the work being done by the Government in this area, which is fulfilling the commitments made in the Peace and Co-existence Plan, and to reiterate the commitment of this group to the plan and to the plans of the Government in this area. And to insist on the need for the political parties represented in this Parliament to be able to rise to the challenges and to do the work we are entrusted with, and to launch the Ponence for Peace and Co-existence again. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u6	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Mr. President... ? No. Second point on the subject list: "Ask me, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made for the president, concerning the consequences of the political normalization of orders to shut up a bar of 107 villages." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u7	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you've come to talk about peace and partnership, and I'll go that way too. For I wish to speak to you of a subject which hinders peace and fellowship. The Spanish Supreme Court has confirmed the decision of the National Advisor, who confiscates the bar of 107 villages, and imposes 20 people's prison sentence with impunity. To find the precedents of a political exhibition of this size, we should go back to the time of franchised war, back to 80 years. This Parliament approved a proposition, as well as the third of April, 2014, in the United States, to make a political rejection of this trial 35/02. In this case the law declared that it was not by the law to be tried in criminal cases, but to punish political and legitimate acts. Unfortunately, his troubles at the time of the parliament have been satisfied. In order to impose this political punishment, this judicial institution has, no doubt, serious consequences to the violation of fundamental political rights, of peace, of co-operation, and of political normalization. What's the president's opinion on that?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u9	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. Azuga, considering what was decided by the law, and what has been established, I must say that the Basque Society and the Basque Institutions are not responsible for the exceptions and modifications of the Spanish Government. We all know that. We have often remarked that we are opposed to these politics, and we are still saying so. It is necessary to put an end to the exceptions, and to adapt them to the present state, because it is indispensable to continue in co-exist. Those lawsuits make us look back, and that's what you're proposing to look forward to, so we can move forward. And the president and I'd like to hear right on the way is in the document, and you know everybody better than you do. I'll make you one more call to join the proposals that are contained in this document, because that's what you're asking for a real advance and a partnership and political normalization that we need to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u11	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. It's a doozy. I never said you were responsible, or thought you were responsible, but I must honestly tell you, in front of a matter of such magnitude or high dimensions, that we were surprised that no opinion of your government should be held out. That's why, frankly, I asked you your opinion. For if we allow it to be admitted to this fact, that these ten7 locals were led to the head of terrorism in this country by many square bian kilometers, it really has a large dimension, or the opposite: If we consider this reasoning as impossible, we are exposed to a terrible injustice. A real outrage against the right to peaceful assembly, the right to political, social action, or, if one wishes, against the right to freedom of expression, which is again being struck with reasoning or interests or with attitudes that we consider to have no place in this country or in this which we have come to call new time, but which unfortunately seems to also come to stay, because this precisely seems to come in character I do not know if systematic, but if generalized. There are new trials against young people, against the Askapena association, that raid of Segura, and attacks that increasingly have an appearance, as I say, systemic and widespread. They are not isolated facts, but they come to demonstrate a situation that we could call involution, again with the Spanish justice headline. A true expoliation of goods that affects, it is true, the collective effort that has been made in these herriko taverns, to their owners, to hundreds of workers, to thousands of users, but also to citizens who have lived together and who have seen how these herriko taverns now confer something that will again be expoliated, in addition to for the benefit of the State, for more affront or for more aggravation. Right, there's a plan, Zuzen Bidean. We, if there is a will to develop it, have an extended hand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u12	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. You ask me about my opinion, Mr. Azuga, and you mention the right to assemble or to assemble, and talk about the freedom of speech, that there will be a new judicial trial, and, after all, you ask me for your opinion of Mia. I think we have several times said this opinion, and I think I have said it in the first answer. And, I think, there's a chance all of us are on the right track to work. In any case, I insist Mr Arzuaga, between the end of the 1990s and the year 2003 the thesis that ETA was ETA and its environment was actually constructed, which later resulted in the "everything is ETA". And on this basis, legal amendments were articulated that introduced diffuse limits in the conducts characterized as terrorists. And that gave rise to unfair situations and consequences, which we have denounced, and also from the Basque Government. One thing, however, is that a majority of society, the Basque Government or the Lehendakari do not share the meaning and origin of certain judicial proceedings, and another very different one that is intended to be others who carry the weight of the consequences of their mistakes in the past. Of your mistakes, of the left also abertzale, Mr Arzuaga. And you say that you do not place the Basque Government in relation to what may be a responsibility of the institutions. I insist, however, that Basque society and institutions are not even responsible for the abertzale left's support for violence for decades. They were demanded in a majority, firm and clear manner to put an end to it, and they looked elsewhere, Mr Arzuaga. And I believe that it must also move the reflection of the abertzale left itself in this approach of question to the Government on the judicial processes, on which we have already expressed our views as regards its view of the past, and even the interpretation that we make of those judicial processes from our point of view. I would like to recall that Basque society and institutions are also not responsible for the Spanish Government's emergency policies and legal amendments. We have expressed our opposition to these policies, and we continue to do so. It would be, in any case, Mr Arzuaga, that, in addition to showing us, those who may have some more chance of moving, as you are on the abertzale left, also do under the Zuzen Bidean programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Socialists, the chief physician of education, the politics, and the Cultural Department of Education, the informative treatment of our Hand's Act." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. First of all, I want to make it clear that we socialists respect for a reason which is peaceful and democraticly moving people, whether they agree with them or not. We owe it also to those who are concerned with the informational function which the law of public service foresees on radio notice. Today, if we're going to ask him a question like that, it's because he's supposed to fulfill and fulfill the law. Madam Counsellor, the allegedly informative treatment given by the EITB public service to the Gure Esku Dago event is in complete contradiction to what is stated in Article 3 of the Law on the Establishment of the EITB Entity, which I read textually: "The activity of the social media whose ownership corresponds to the Autonomous Community shall be based on the following principles: (a) the objectivity, veracity and impartiality of the information; (b) the distinction and separation between information and opinion, requiring the latter to identify those who manifest it. The same differentiated and separate treatment will require commercial advertising." And there is no objectivity when the public radio-television plans a previous coverage, in the day and after that that exceeds the importance of the event on which it wants to be informed. This coverage responds exclusively to a political decision to promote and enlarge the informational relevance of the call for a social organization. This decision resulted in a public report, in which any distinction between information and opinion was made. That journalists, without attributing to any source, assume that – and between them – "it is time to release the knots", that it is said – also in quotes – "the wave is unstoppable", or that it is subtitled with the slogan "making a dream", are clear examples of what I am saying. We therefore ask the adviser whether she considers that the informational treatment offered by EITB to the acts of Gure Esku Dago was in line with the general principles set out in article 3 of the EITB Establishment Act.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u16	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. In reply, Mrs. Uri until she's a member of the New Year's House has a word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u17	Mrs. President of the Parliament. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr Unzalu, you are accusing EITB of providing disproportionate and excessive information coverage to the Gure Esku Dago initiative. Can I ask you a question? Did you get a chance to see the press on May 22nd? I do, and I remember perfectly, because I corroborated it before proceeding to answer to your lordship, that the event that you reduced to a simple call from a social organization supported by a single party was covered by all the press headlines that are published in the Basque Country, news that acquired a development of between four and ten pages in the newspapers of Vocento, Grupo Noticias, Gara and Berria. Even The World and ABC echo the news. Are these media suspected of supporting the initiative? Mr. Unzalu, you can't deny that our Hand is an event of great social and media echo. EIB's responsibility is to give this event the same treatment as that of society, politics, culture, sports, or any other kind of event, according to its characteristics and kinds of information. As for the obscantism you accuse EIB, I assure you he has done it with complete transparency. In fact, he had already given a note of press to show what he would give the incident.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u19	Yes, Madam Counsellor, although it is up to me to ask, I answer. Yes, I read the headlines on the 22nd, and many of them compared last Sunday's event to a few months ago, and they said that the influx to the event had been greatly reduced. That's what was left in most newspaper headlines. But I told you two things. One, the excessive treatment that was made of that event, not only on the day it occurred, but previously and subsequently. And this is what from our point of view has been disproportionate and disproportionate. And then what you haven't answered at all is when you pour opinions on the part of journalists and you don't tell them where they come from. And I've given you three examples. I could give you more, but I'm going to repeat the three examples I've told you. Do you think it's giving an opinion, or not (it's what I'm asking you), "it's time to drop knots," that a journalist would say it as an informative element, without saying that it's the motto of the event or that it's the idea that someone has organized the event? "Making a dream," do you think it's a motto, a motto that has no content, that is directed, and that that put on TV screens is not giving that coverage and is identifying with that motto? That's what I'm asking you, and you don't answer. Anyway, the citizenry is already responding, counselor. You know that ETB is lowering the audience, we're on an average of 8% ETB audience. On this day, these specials had a 5.4% hearing in ETB. I think that's quite the answer, the one that gave him citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u21	Mr. Unzalu, as well as the board of directors of the ETB, and all the persons who work there, know well the content of the third article of the Act of the Act of the EITB to create EIB, as well as their duty. I must admit, in this case, that I have not a definite analysis of the contents, and consequently I cannot deny the assertion you have made concerning the given information. That's why your concern has been delivered to the EIB board of directors to check the treatment given to the news with what the law sets and the EITB style book matches. In any case, this government believes in the professionality of the human team of EIB. And I believe that in the background of your question you question proportionality as well. Proportionality in the media is always a matter of debate, because it is not a certain science; it is an option that media directions exercise with professionalism and honesty, taking into account the journalistic criteria themselves and of general interest. Anyway, I have data about other areas, like a special program you mentioned on June 17th, a program called ETB 2nd. I must say that I disagree with what you say. I would remind you – since if you saw this programme, you know it perfectly well – that this programme hosted a plural political debate. In addition, opinions were also gathered from various social and political figures, such as Juan José Ibarretxe, Carlos Garaikoetxea, Ramón Jáuregui, Gemma Zabaleta, Joseba Egibar, Isabel Celaá, Hasier Arraiz, Borja Semper and Gorka Maneiro. In any case, Mr Unzalu, the relationship of partners who participated in this programme in one way or another is the best indication that EITB respects the plurality of Basque society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the head physician of the Medical Department as to the individual health cards of the Osalist." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, is a good day. Royal Decree 702/2013 of 30 September amended Decree 183/2004, which regulates the individual health card. This decree establishes the content of individual health cards, i.e. a single format, which has been corroborated by the Supreme Court ruling of 2 February. Despite this pronouncement, which was known to the Basque Government, the Department of Health of the Basque Government continued with a competition to produce 250,000 health cards, at a cost of 79,000 euros (with money from all; like the ETB, with money from all), without respecting the established content. That is why we are asking and asking, Mr Councilman, to answer this question: whether it is your department's discretion to deliberately circumvent, as you have done on this occasion, compliance with the rules in force on these individual health cards, and in particular the ruling of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u24	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. Darpón, who's a member of the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u25	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Mrs. Garrido, the Department of Health abides by the regulations in force on individual health cards, as well as the ruling issued by the Supreme Court. However, your question allows me to explain the content of that rule. The Royal Decree 702/2013, which, as you have said, has come to amend Royal Decree 183/2004, which regulates the individual health card, a card that recognizes identity and facilitates access to benefits both in Basque public health and in the health of the rest of the autonomous communities, defines that the health card must contain common basic data, including: institutional identity of the autonomous community, the label of the Spanish National Health System and the health card, the personal identification code assigned by the health administration issuing the card, the name and surname of the card holder, and the unique personal identification code of the National Health System. It also regulates the specific characteristics, data standardization and magnetic band structure of the card. I may continue to mention all the facts I have entered, but it is my purpose to give them general information about this decree, and also to declare our opinion, and to inform them of the actions committed. That said, neither this royal decree nor the Law 16/2003, on cohesion and quality of the National Health System, agreed that two official languages coexist in Euskadi. And it is not that they forget the content of our Statute of Autonomy: they forgot even the Spanish Constitution, which in its preliminary title recognizes that the official languages of the autonomous communities will be official according to their statutes. Well, Your Honor, when we proposed that in Royal Decree 702/2013 the basic data did not contemplate the use of euskera we were told that there were already laws that regulated it. As you know, the competition is presented and awarded before the notification of the judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u26	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u27	Counselor, you knew the content of the sentence. And in any case, it seems to me an absolute irresponsibility to be pending a court ruling and to take out a competition. Either way, wrong. Look, counselor, you know that on the back of the card you can put whatever you want. You know what the Supreme Court's ruling and ruling has been, which is very clear and which says that there is no competitive invasion at all. And you have ignored the current rules and judicial decisions, because you have continued with a contest that has cost us money, which is costing us money to all Basques. This royal decree, agreed within the interterritorial council, where it was given the approval by this Autonomous Community... I know it wasn't you, it was Mr Bengoa, but the Basque Autonomous Community's approval was given to that decree which has now corroborated the Supreme Court's ruling. And you, Mr Councillor, have ignored the content of the judgment, which corroborates, as I say, the reference to Spain's National Health System. And this Government, as I said, even though it knew that content, went on with a competition to get 250,000 cards without the label. They have made an inadequate expense by acquiring these new cards without respecting the current regulations, allocating that amount of 79,000 euros that comes out of everyone's money. As everyone's money comes out to cover the ETB, in which you continually make partisan propaganda of your government, and of your party interests as well. And it has been destined for the purchase of that card, card that you know you have to comply with that regulation in a step-by-step way in five years until 2018. Therefore, you will then have to comply with that regulation, and you are throwing money away, everyone's money, and you are wasting, as I say, the money of all Basque citizens. You know that money you've spent, for now 79,000 euros, has no route. Of course, Mr President-in-Office, we are not going to waste everyone's money once again on the whim of this government. You have a forecast that you have also said you will meet; therefore, money for now thrown into the trash, so the sooner you do it the better. And I would like, Mr Councillor, once and for all to leave your particular obsessions aside and to focus on improving the health care of all Basque citizens. Those obsessions that have reminded me of the tulip episode, which are wasting everyone's time, and you are being wasted on your main task at the head of the Department of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u28	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u29	Garrido andrea, I suppose you know why we resorted to the royal decree. Of course, we did not do so because I suggest that there must be the basic identification data of the cardholder. We resort to the royal decree because from this government we share the need for personal identification codes within the normalization process, and we also share that there are elements to facilitate intercommunication or interoperability between administrations, but we share it both for the state and the European Union, a circumstance which seems to the Madrid government not to be concerned about. In addition, look, it seems to us an excess that it is not for the State to come to the extreme to impose that the letter has to be Times New Roman number 9 bold; that it has to have the image to the right, the photograph to the left... All of them aspects of great relevance. Your Honor, we appeal because we understand that this royal decree prevents us from exercising our sovereignty to fix the content of health cards in Euskadi, when we have the oldest health card in the state. And we do not refuse to respect what we understand should be the minimum content set by the state norm. Obviously, and as we have always done, we will abide by the ruling and the upcoming card competitions will adjust its content, but to abide by and comply with it does not mean that we do not think that defining certain aspects of a health card as a basic norm is but a further demonstration of the re-centralizing drift of the People's Party government. We are, and you will agree with me in this matter. The passion which the Spanish Government oppresses in order to centralize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u30	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Five point in theme list: "The question is, that Gorka Maniero Labayen Mistto-UPyD members of the legislature to the president, Mr. José Luis Bilbao speaking of the decision of the United States to the Basque Court of Accounts." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, yesterday we witnessed a political farce and an entrepreneurial act of political hypocrisy. Members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts were elected by this Parliament. The political groups elected and constituted a political tribunal to oversee the actions of the politicians. In this way, the Basque Court of Public Accounts will continue as it has so far. And how is the Basque Court of Public Accounts? It's taken, it's occupied by the different political parties. And we think that this must be radically changed, so that it can perform its function and its work properly. Except for UPyD, who thinks that members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts should not be elected by political groups and that the model needs to be radically changed, all other parties have tried to place their own in the court, so that from within they can defend their own party interests. And this is what we propose to change. And this is the farce that you also participated in yesterday. And this seems absolutely entrepreneurship to us, and it goes against the necessary professionalisation and modernisation of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Among its members will be the former deputy general of Bizkaia, Mr Bilbao, in a blatant exercise of reassignment of a public office of the Basque Nationalist Party, with the support of the Socialist Party, in a court whose main function is the control of the various Basque institutions. You have sought a job exit from the deputy general of Bizkaia: a turning door clearly, something absolutely regrettable. They send him from the General Chamber of Bizkaia to the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and this goes against the necessary professionalization of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. The various groups have protested this fact, but they have all tried to place their own, and as many of their own as possible. This is political hypocrisy. As I said at first, you participated in this farce. Do you consider today, Mr Lehendakari, that we can say that the Basque Court of Public Accounts is a professional court, which can perfectly carry out its supervisory work, bearing in mind that those inside are people elected by the various political parties to defend their interests? Do you consider that the incorporation of Mr Bilbao guarantees the independence of this body?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u33	Chief of Parliament. Firstly, Mr Maneiro, and as you have said, as you have pointed out, this is an approved decision where it is appropriate and as it is appropriate. It is a decision of the Basque Parliament, of which you are a party, and it has been adopted scrupulously applying Law 1/1998, which regulates the procedure, requirements, causes of incapacity, incompatibilities and prohibitions of access to the Court of Public Accounts. Yesterday you had the opportunity to position yourself in relation to this decision, and you did so by saying that you were not going to participate in this farce – which has used this expression today on three occasions – and leaving the Basque Parliament, or at least the Chamber. And we also made the rest of Parliamentarians in this House our position, offering broad support both to the previous report of the Incompatibilities Commission and to the appointment of all the members of the court, including Mr José Luis Bilbao. The decision of this House is in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the law. The people elected are aware of the debate that has arisen, and are aware of their responsibility to carry out the work entrusted to them by this Parliament. I am fully confident that the responsible attitude of those who are part of the Court of Auditors guarantees their independence and professionalism in management, as in the past, Mr Maneiro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u35	Yes, thank you. Mr Lehendakari, indeed, was a decision taken by this Parliament, and in my opinion an absolutely shameful decision, which has no name. Because, indeed, what is intended is to place certain people within the Basque Court of Public Accounts to defend the interests of political parties. And this has been done by all political groups without exception. And, indeed, this is how the court has worked in recent times. Its credibility is clearly flattened, it's laminated, and it's going to continue to be flattened. There have been many scandals in recent times, and it has been shown that this court effectively lacks the necessary modernization and professionalization. It is a clearly politicized court of accounts, and therefore the model needs to be changed. And we presented last year an initiative to create a paper and be able to change the law, and you voted against the hand of the Socialist Party. For what? To continue to control the Basque Court of Public Accounts from within and that it cannot carry out the necessary control. This is the reality, that you have taken that court and want this to continue in the future. And we think we need to radically change it to professionalize it, to modernize it, to depoliticize it. And this, of course, although alone, we will continue to defend it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I would like to reiterate that the procedure followed has been fully in line with the principles of the law. And you, though alone, as you say, though alone, will continue to do so. You have the full right to propose your amendment. Look, indeed, the election of José Luis Bilbao also counted with my favorable vote, yes. This decision responds to a broad consensus, which allows to form a team that will give the necessary stability and continuity to this institution. It seems to me that judging an institution for the positions elected by this Parliament, without taking into account the professionalism of the whole institution, is also to reduce it to the responsibility of the elected persons, without giving a vote in favour of what is their professional training. In any case, José Luis Bilbao has demonstrated for years his capacity and know-how in the institutional responsibilities he has assumed, Mr Maneiro. It is well prepared and knowledgeable in terms of budgetary management, financial management, and control of public expenditure. He has demonstrated his vocation and delivered himself to the public service. He has now been chosen by this House to be part of the Basque Court of Auditors, and as a lehendakari I can only acknowledge his experience and professional career in public management. And, of course, it has my confidence, in the assurance that, like the rest of the chosen people, it will always act with full independence. And to the facts I refer to what has also been the performance of the various and different members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts throughout history. This congress has accepted the nomination of José Louis Bilbao. He's got my vote, too, 'cause he's got my full confidence. He has a proper formation and a year's experience in it. He has dedicated his vocation to public service. He has respect and confession, and I am convinced that he will answer it right and true, according to this new care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to say 18 before I go on. that the question has been retired, and that in the place of the 12th the 15th will be seen and the 12th place of the 15th. Number of points in theme list: "Interpodate, written by José Antonio Pastor by Eusquido Sociialists to the president, as to the development of the Housing Act by the Rule." Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u39	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, the Basque Socialists believe that what was agreed by this Parliament on 18 June, by adopting the Housing Act, is a milestone in the social construction of Euskadi. And we truly regret, sincerely, that once again the group that supports the Government and the very Government that you preside over have not understood the significance of this law and the need to have been deeply involved, indeed, in the search for an agreement. We sincerely regret this, but we now look forward to its sincere involvement. And when we say it sincerely we say it in its full meaning: free from all faking. It goes without saying that the Government must comply with and enforce the law; it is also what all its members swear or promise to take up office. And we liked – I must admit – that, just to finish the vote, Councilman Ángel Toña would not limit himself to that obligation in compliance and would use the expression "to endorse this regulation"; that he would speak of loyalty with the provisions of this House. What we didn't like was to stir up the phantom of adjustments in other social games, and the inhibition pointed out in case there were any remedies that made it difficult to enforce the law. We were also dismayed that a few days later, in addition to talking about emergencies in a law that has taken two long years of parliamentary procedure, with continued requests for postponement to extend the issue, he made statements that made it necessary to guarantee rights to budgetary availability. It leaves very bad that social-Christian talent that they claim to show, because we socialists understand that rights are consolidated and guaranteed, independently, or without taking into account only budgetary availability. We found frankly regrettable the vice-counsel's rendezvous that weekend, using lies – I have to say this – and half truths, which reminded the more than unfortunate statements that in his day the spokesman of this government made on that enlightened day when he spoke of "worldly calling effect" (they are still shaking at the UN), even if it was a clamorous falsehood to nothing that was read the law. And I want to stop for a moment at this point, because it seems to me very relevant to give value to the answer that can offer us about what the regulatory development of the law is going to be. And once again – and I don't even remember the times we've done it – I'm going to read you your own Code of Ethics, an article we've had to repeat many times in this rostrum. 11.6: "In addition, honesty in the exercise of public office implies being able to convey truthfulness, credibility, and not resort to deception, distraction or cover-up of the problems to be solved." And the spokesman came to the deception and distraction when he tried to sow – and that was his intention, clearly – an unjustified social alarm with the phrase pointed out in that press conference and which could have been saved perfectly. And the vice-counsel lied, directly lied when this Saturday said in two newspapers "We – as the councilman said in February 2013 – were working on the housing bill, but did not give us enough time, and at three months the Socialist Party presented what was the text of the Basque Government and in which a lot of money was invested in the drafting." And I think it's worth playing trileros. You, Mr Lehendakari, on 9 May 2013, when you appeared in this Parliament to explain your legislative calendar, advanced your intention to introduce sixteen laws. None of them were housing. I asked him myself, and you said they were looking to see what they were doing. And he added something else: that he was open to discussing group proposals and not throwing away projects from the previous stage. And that is true: you have brought laws that were already drawn up by the previous government. But this was not, simply because they were not interested, because they legitimately did not understand that we had to regulate this subjective right which we did understand that we had to do so. And that is why we put forward this bill one week after you confirmed in Parliament your lack of interest in this law, which was corroborated by the contrary criterion that your Government also issued to our bill, and by its absence again in the legislative calendar presented in June. And that was to throw the money into the trash, because, in fact, it had cost a lot of effort to do that project, which was a government project, not the Socialist Party, and an economic effort and, above all, a social effort. I am not going to talk about the public money that cost the amendments tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party: 21.538 euros credited for paying a report to a private company from which those amendments were copied. At EUR 190 the amendment came out. That is the truth, an ideological discrepancy (it seems legitimate to me): you do not believe in subjective law or measures to make it effective, and we do. Nor is it true that there was no economic memory, as the representatives of the PNV have repeated as a mantra. It had already been done by the previous Government, in addition to all the blessings of the relevant legal reports. And in this, moreover, at the request of the PNV, which confirmed the initial forecasts, and at the request of the Government shortly thereafter, these economic impact forecasts have been modified. Then there was economic memory, so it would be better if we didn't talk so lightly. We are not going to enter at this point in time to discuss the substantive issues of the law. It has been two years in this Parliament discussing this law, we have already had the debate, and your Government assumes the majority that has taken place. What we are now asking the Lehendakari to do is to truly endorse this law, that no one from his Government should encourage new ghosts, and that they should start working technically on everything that is necessary to ensure that no one remains on the street with alternatives. And that, if anyone intends to interrupt this process with judicial remedies, his Government should use itself thoroughly, as in other cases, to defend our competence, as it has done on twenty-three other occasions, and where it knows that it will have our full support, as on other occasions. And that is why we want to know what the Government's intentions are to ensure as soon as possible the regulatory development that guarantees the rights recognized in the Housing Act adopted by an absolute majority of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Pastor, I am obviously very aware of the significance of this Law, a law that has taken thirty-five years to be passed in the Basque Parliament. And so conscious I am, that you ask me for my personal involvement and so I am exercising it. And I will explain it not now, but also in the process of negotiating between political formations for the debate of the proposal of law, and you know it, Mr Pastor. You know that. But I am not going to go into discussions even about the postponements of the law, because of the postponements of the bills we could also talk long and extended. I am not going to go into any discussion either of the origin of the bill put forward in Parliament. On the origin of the proposal for a law is also referred to by the Deputy Councillor, and in this field does not lie to the Deputy Councillor. In any case, Mr Pastor, look, it is not my intention to reproduce today either the extensive debate and the different positions held in this House regarding the Housing Act. The Government and the various parliamentary groups have already expressed our opinion on this, and in this regard I endorse the words, immediately if the law has been passed, expressed by the Employment and Social Policy Adviser. The law has been adopted, and it is the Government's obligation to implement it through the relevant regulatory development. It's our law, it's everyone's law. That is therefore the intention of the Government, and I therefore give a clear answer to its question. In any case, allow me to record, at least to record, that you submitted your inquiry on 22 June, just four days after the adoption of the law in this House, and even before its publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, which took place today, this day we are here. Frankly, this urgency – which is nothing new, on the other hand, because it has also had other calls on its part immediately to the adoption of certain decisions in this Parliament – creates some perplexity, this urgency. To a greater extent when you yourself, I insist, listened to the statements made by the counselor himself nothing more be passed the law, just eight days ago. I can assure you that the Government will not delay the implementation of the procedures necessary for its regulatory development. I can assure you that we will work closely with the actors and the institutions concerned, including many of the newly formed municipalities. But with the same roundness I confirm that we will do so from the perspective of ensuring the legal certainty of the steps that we are taking. And proof of this will is that even before the publication of the law today, Mr Pastor, an internal working group has already been set up and set up in the Basque Government to analyse the steps to be taken and the urgent aspects to be considered for the proper regulatory development of this law. This working group is necessary, because, as you well know, this is not a simple law of application. You know that, too, as we all know. You know that the text of the law itself leaves open many gaps and uncertainties, which need to be worked on. The most relevant gaps and uncertainties are economic. This law, however much you say that you have also dealt with economic memory, has its shortcomings in that regard, and it is therefore very difficult to know the exact budgetary effects that its application may have in the short or medium term. In any case, and on account of responsibility, the Basque Government will incorporate this economic assessment into the process of preparing the budgets for next year, 2016. Secondly, we are also faced with constitutional gaps and uncertainties; that of course we will defend what we have to defend, but you are fully aware that this law contains certain articles that affect or may affect the constitutionally protected legal status of property. And these articles, once the law is published today, can be appealed to the court, as has happened elsewhere in the Spanish State. Something that, as you know, has also been discussed in the Basque Parliament itself. I do not deny that I am concerned that this can also happen in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, despite the fact that, I insist, this law will have the defence, if necessary, by the Basque Government, as well as in the other areas of competition affecting the Basque Government. Thirdly, we find the gaps and uncertainties in relation to the municipal condition. I would like to reiterate that this law has not been analysed by the Association of Basque Municipalities-Eudel. It wasn't. You are well aware that municipalities will be directly affected by the application of this law, both in the management and identification of empty floors and in the property impact that the decision to dedicate public floors to rental housing may have. So, Mr. Pastor, you won't deny that these questions about economy, the Constitution and the municipal authorities are important. You will not deny, too, the affairs of management, or the difficulties of applying this law. In fact, EukoY is already working to clear up all these questions and questions and make the Housing Act as soon as possible, in all the matters in which that law regulates. These doubts must be explained by developing the rule, and, on the other hand, we must give an answer to the questions which arise from the law. Therefore, Mr Pastor, the Basque Government is working to clear up the uncertainties and address all the matters considered, whose mere mention (your mere mention already in itself) gives an idea of the complexity of the task: subjective right to housing, public property of the land, deposit of bonds, canon to uninhabited housing, forced rental, temporary expropriation of the right of use to banks and individuals for non-payment of rent, creation of an agency with the aim of integrating the various existing companies and agencies in the field of housing, progressive realization of the reorientation of the housing policy towards rental housing, and its impact on the rest of the current rehabilitation and construction policies. In short, we have a lot of work ahead of us, which as a government we will face without delay, and I hope that with the support of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. I have to admit, there are quite a few things I like about your answer. I am not going to enter into the political will or not that his Government had in presenting this project, which clearly did not, then it does not seem to be one of its priorities. But we're going to give that subject up because we already have a housing law. I like that you talk about the law by defining it as "our law," but that has to be done after true, not just a slogan. And I am very concerned about the insistence expressed especially by your parliamentary group (you have also referred to this again), on the remedies that may or may not be expected to be brought before the Constitutional Court, not because of the same cases, probably, by which the Andalusian decree (which was not a law, was a decree), which in part have been remedied and we understand that we have sufficiently covered in the text the possible legal gaps, but that does not remove the possibility. And I would like to reiterate to you once again our willingness to support, and to ask this Government that, if that happens, you defend the sovereignty and competence that the Basques have, the Basque Government in this case, with regard to the Housing Act. You talk to me about a working group, and I think it's good that you get to work, but we don't want to think that that becomes a sort of commission of those who are set up to dilate the issues, and with the excuse of complexity, and to analyze it very calmly and carefully, the law doesn't just develop and the regulation doesn't end up seeing the light, because that usually happens on some occasions. I do not deny the complicity that you may have from this moment on in the application of the law, but allow me to at least still have doubts about development and speed, with all the legal guarantees, so that this is done without any delay. Because it would seem logical that a government that you in your slogan define as "the government of people" should take into account that this law responds to a fundamental right of people: that of having a roof where to shelter. A right as important to us as health and education. And, therefore, if you want to make that slogan true so that it does not just remain in that, in a slogan, this is one of the rights that today mark the mark in the Basque Country of what is an advanced policy, but that it is going to spread to the rest of the autonomous communities and it is going to constitute, without a doubt... For some who question it as a right, and therefore have to ensure its application, it will end up being. And I think we need to be proud that this was the first autonomous community, the first autonomous parliament that has passed such a law. So, Mr. Lehendakari, I take your floor, and you have no doubt that I will hold you accountable if you do not keep it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pastor, I'm used to you taking the floor, because that's what I'm committed to. In any case, I reiterate to you that it is the will of the Government to proceed with the regulatory development of the law, of which I have said "our law", and not because it is the law of the Basque Government or of the Basque Nationalist Party, which would not have been this: it is the law of all, once approved by the Basque Parliament, and as such it is the responsibility of the Basque Government to develop its regulations. I would like to reiterate that an internal working group is already under way. And I do not believe in that topic of the committees for delaying the issues that are dealt with in a working group, because we could also talk about committees and delays in other institutional areas. In any case, an internal working group with the presence of the competent department itself and the Department of Finance and Finance and the participation of Lehendakaritza. But above all, and most importantly, in relation to what you said in your first intervention and also in your second intervention, in relation to subjective law, I reiterate and make it clear in this House that the supplementary housing allowance for all those who do not have resources is a reality applied from the first day by this Government. In Euskadi, all those who are beneficiaries of income-guarantee income and need it receive a supplementary benefit for access to decent housing, a subjective right in which we believe the Basque Nationalist Party and its Government. The government not of people: the government of commitment to people, Mr Pastor. Today the 29,000 people who have no resources have received an extra subsidy that guarantees a decent housing and a decent residence. In the Euskadin, there is a subjective right to be a decent housing for those who are most in need. I'll tell you more: He'll get a collection of money that can grow up the next year's budget to help the new benefits he's gonna bring in that law. We do not start from scratch, Mr Pastor, with regard to subjective law, as regards the adoption of a housing law. Today in Euskadi there are 29,000 people without resources who are receiving a supplementary benefit that guarantees access to and enjoyment of decent housing, a subjective right worked by the Basque Government of the Basque Nationalist Party. Take a look at our surroundings, and you can see that any other community would recognize that in Euskadi the most needy people actually have the right to decent housing. The law in its transitional fourth provision states: "In the first calendar year from the day following the entry into force of this law, families of three or more members who have an income of less than 15,000 euros and who have been registered as applicants for housing in Etxebide shall have the right to benefit from it for four or more years". The Basque Government endorses the realization of this right: all persons or families who comply with this requirement may register to apply for the enjoyment of rented housing or, where appropriate, for the additional benefit that will enable them to have access to decent housing. This right is guaranteed in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Arti Zulaika Portillo EH Club, made to the president about the state of young EAE's job. " Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u47	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The situation of the young man is extremely troubling. We all have young people around us, and we all know how hard it is when young people start looking for a job after they've finished school. The collective condition of the young has always been in a weak condition; but after the crisis, this state of weakness has increased, and has passed into an intolerable condition. When we examine the situation of the young employers, it is not enough to observe the rate of unemployment. From the new contracts made to the young, it's only 5% of limitless contracts, or, if you like, 95%, temporary. As to the contracts applied to the young, it is a long list, by means of the gaps in which the inferior conditions of work are applied. Some kinds of contractors make no commerce between the company and the workman, so that they are deprived of any right: for instance, without a holiday, without payment, or then without a chance of obtaining a distraction. Between the first job options, without the practice, the practice contracts, the scholarships... who knows how many formulas, after all, to establish the worse conditions of work than the rest of the workingmen!! If we watch them work for themselves, the young people who work, compared to the rest of their employees, get paid less than 13,000 a year for the same job. Besides, young women, in comparison with men, earn less than 3.540 euros, and among the younger, the unjust state which we suffer is increased. Absence, lack of security, fat words like frustration, unfortunately indicate the situation of our younger men. There have been many who have gone abroad with hope of finding work, because they have no longer hope here. And even among the young ones who have emigrated, there are various situations. Some few have been lucky, and they've got a job that has something to do with what they've learned and they like. Others, on the other hand, succeed in labor, but in conditions which are more related to slavery. And in other cases, they have gone abroad to look for employment, not found, and their condition is even more dull. There are thousands of young people in this situation, too many. Before this unpleasant situation, EGK has long been able to open and denounce the wretched conditions of work and the information about the prevarication of youth in various reports. SOS the Young Ones, Emperdedors, Preseta, and the Last Accusations, have been called by the Reformation of Castile. The Council of the Young Basque Council has made the last imperfect reading of the situation of the younger, e.g., that of the 10 people who live in Araban, Biscaia, and Gipus, six are less than 35 years old, or that 66% of young men have no income at all. The Prefect is a bithet, they are in a state of prevarietation. According to the calculations that EGK himself made, the general unemployment rate of the young is 30% around EAE. According to the Eustat, 38 percent of young people who are less than 25 years old are out of work. They have introduced several measures in order to prevent this serious situation, as well as to deprive young men of special competitions in the measures of labors paid for by the public in order to give less conditions, and to create a view of the conditions of deception which young men suffer, to introduce young men into the social squares, or to keep a fee addressed to young men in general employment measures. And as if this were little, there are those who, with the intention of blivating their interests and their privileges, deny the state above mentioned and described. For instance, President Pello Gibelde, President Adventor of the Adventures, has declared that there are several facts in the prevaricate. That no contractorship is made between companies and corporations, and that he sees no preparation anywhere. Of course, in the grand assembly of the Aegi Gipuean firms, there had been, among the rest, the "Urkullus, the Arzion Tapia, the Angel Toñaa, and Markel Olano." There, the President declared that he was "delighted" in the Gipusque and the new era in which Eukadin has been opened, in the new period when stability and security will be brought to him. He said it would encourage him to invest, to raise, and to create employment options, and ensure that the institutions will be more close to the company, and protect him. We are very concerned about the proximity of this government to companies who draw such reality. We know Mr. Gibeldo isn't the representative of all the company in Gipulia. Oh, thank God. It's just irresponsible. In the meantime, Gibelid, a representative of some companies, does not believe that the young members of the community are invested with inferior conditions of labor and instability. Is that what this government provides to young people? That photo next to the people who do this shit? What can young people think? We don't think the sizes that's been going on until now were working on it that didn't do any good. The data is there, which cannot be denied. It's been a long time since we've collected EH to prove that even if quantum data is important, there are even more quantum data. And to improve quantum data, you need to take measures. The problem is not only if it's work or not, but the problem goes beyond. Of the young men who work, of what conditions of work they get to work, what instability they have, how little they can give, and what is more important is that there are many in the state of poverty. We're very concerned about the situation of young men at EH Collecton, and we believe this government has not set up any effective measures. That's why we're doing the next Interpelation to President Urkullu. What's the purpose of it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. In reply, Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u49	The President of the legislature, the president, the chief of the department, the members of the legislature, good day. Mrs. Zulaika, I once said it, and I'm still saying: I have a son at home that way. The presidency you make is the result of a stately prayer, and, in that respect, the EukMalk won't have the power or the competition. We have no competition, though we have asked more than once for the transfer of that handholder. The reform that had this work-relation has only succeeded in making it worse for the conditions of work. Yes, this government, and the party that supports the government, I should say more than once, in more than once, they have expressed that they do not agree with these reforms. Nevertheless, these governments cannot prevent degenerates from using the established regulations, although they are uncertain of the quality of the employment which follows them. We encourage initiatives that will promote the production of employment in quality from the government. We could heat it, but not prevent it. I'll say it in a moment: The reforms that have been subject to this regulation have only made the quality of employment precarious, and this Government and its supporters have repeatedly expressed their opposition to these reforms. What we cannot do from this government – and I understand that from no one else – is to make sure that regulations are not used to create jobs in precarious conditions because they have the tools to do so. There are entrepreneurs who use it and entrepreneurs who don't use it. What we can do from the Government, and we try to do, is to promote the creation of quality jobs. And the competition we have is in active employment policies, and through the actions within these competences we try to promote that quality employment. And the employment plan with which we have been equipped is the main tool that this Government has to deal with these difficulties, with which young people find themselves in the world of work. I'm telling you, he's in an active business policy, like I said. By means of undertakings which develop within it, we seek to promote the production of a proper employment. And, indeed, one of the most important instruments of this government, in order to face the difficulties of young men in the work-world, is the plan of employment. By the 2014-16 Eplegu Plan, public enterprises to stabilize the jobs that are in the Basques are, as also initiatives to create new jobs in business, and to increase the availability of active population. It is, no doubt, to mention the ends of his work, and to the neglect of the party, especially to the younger, to bring him nearer to the work-world. Thus, among the programmes that make up the initiative, employment is to be insisted on. That program has 24 million dollars' budget. There are twenty-two initiatives, with four axes of action: support for young entrepreneurship, dual training, third promotion of the first work experience, and fourth, the promotion of young talent. Support for young entrepreneurship is provided with more than €5 million in 2015, and is articulated through several initiatives: support for young promoters for the development and implementation of new business ideas, various agreements, Gaztenpresa, Urrats Bat programme, training courses for the social economy and junior cooperatives, and innovative actions in youth entrepreneurship. We believe that these initiatives can support the creation of more than a thousand direct jobs this year. The second axis to which I have referred, that of dual training, is endowed with more than EUR 1 million in 2015, and includes two actions: the Hezibi programme, and practical training in workplaces. The two run between Lanbide and the Department of Education, and will reach more than 12,000 young people in 2015, who will improve or significantly improve their employability and their exit from precariousness. The third axis, the first work experience, is endowed with more than 10 million euros for this year, and it is also developed through various actions: Lehen Aukera (and you know, Mrs Zulaika, the problems that sometimes have the application of Lehen Aukera, in which this government is especially committed to hiring young people, and not scholarship students), the hiring of young people in Basque companies abroad, the relay contract, the agreements with universities and the Novia Salcedo Foundation, and the specific orientation of young people towards these lines. And these actions we understand and have calculated that they will be able to provide a first direct work experience to 1,600 young people in 2015, and many others could improve their employability and therefore reduce their precariousness. And the fourth axis, that of young talent, is endowed with more than 7 million euros for this exercise, and is also implemented with different programs: scholarships, Global Training, transnational mobility of young people, different programs for cooperation with the United Nations, with development cooperation, with assistance to Basque people cooperating... All these measures, Mrs Zulaika, are aimed at direct, transparent and measurable action during the period before us. We allocated 86 million euros to the service of youth employment in 2014-2016. We are trying to create more than 1,500 new businesses for young people, who are able to generate, self-generate, 2,200 jobs; enable first job experiences for more than 20,000 young people; improve the employability of more than 135,000 young people, and therefore also reduce their precariousness. And, having said that, with all these actions under way, the data with which we find ourselves still seems insufficient, Mrs Zulaika, we still do not like them. And it is true, as you said, that the Basque Youth Council gave us this information: youth employment rate, 30%; 22% who do not earn enough to live; 66% do not have any income. And I say them because you say them too and we make them ours too, because they are statistical data. 95% of contracts are temporary, 45% end within one year, 50% of young people accept any job, and the average salary of young people, as you have said, is EUR 13,000, when the average salary is double. We know. We're sure you're in the habit of developing a person's way of work. It's a necessary and necessary network, and it's more important. By industry, the qualities of every man ought to be strengthened. The work done ought to be properly paid, so that we think dignity and labour ought to be the terms for which we ought to go together. Eta amaitzeko, access to employment and to a decent wage is included among social rights, which are those which guarantee to all citizens, without distinction of nationality, sex, age or social class, access to the means necessary for decent living conditions, for conditions which contribute increasingly to humanizing people, their relationships and the environment in which they develop.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u51	Thanks again, ma'am. Unfortunately, we didn't realize that we were going to change direction. We go on with the same recipe, and we ask you to change that direction. We share that the form of work may be derived from the most trifling conditions of labour. We all agree with that, Mr. Toña, and we absolutely agree with that. How? So what do we do? When we collect EH, we'll be on our side to deal with this problem, but we have to do something about having full rights here to be all rights, to be all rights, to have all rights in order to face that task of work-that's how it is. And we're going to focus on the nices we've got right now, in the active politics. We say that the employment programme for young people has failed, and that is so. We know the budget that has been allocated, the employment numbers or, I do not know, the recruitments that have been made, but we see that it is not enough, that precariousness continues to increase, and that the situation of Basque youth is unsustainable. Focusing on active policies, on what we have competence, here are some of the policies, some of the programmes, some of the measures that can be carried out. For example, in relation to the previous topic, the issue of access to housing or access to GIR, two weeks ago, I think, in this house we propose that young people, from the age of eighteen, also have access to income-guarantee income, and it has not left. And it is one of the measures that can be taken from here to avoid that precariousness, to avoid the situation in which young people live. Or through recruitment or social clauses in the public administration. Another measure that we could implement and that is not being implemented, for example. Or measures such as booking in the rest of the employment programmes, of the Government's Employment Plan, certain quotas also so that a minimum of recruitment is for people under thirty years of age. Or, for example, the subject of the relief contract, something that is also in our hands. For this year is the year in which the least budget has been directed to boost this type of recruitment, for example. All these measures are just some of the measures that EH Bildu does not propose, which also in the last txosten, which will surely have passed on to you also the Youth Council, are included. These are not just measures proposed by EH Bildu: young people are asking for such measures. The talent recruitment program is very good, of course it is very good, but we want you to come back too, that also young people who are not so talented and have had to go out looking for a job, those people can come back here too. I would like to reiterate to you once again that it is in your hands to change policies aimed at improving the situation of young people and at changing this situation from a root point of view. Much is in your hands, and, well, we hope it will be a written priority with capital letters. Because it is not only necessary for youth, but for all Basque society it is necessary to turn this situation around.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mr. Toña, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u53	Our model of work has not been ideal for young men historically, at least in crisis. Our model does not know how to reconcile the desire for the innovation of young workers. The trade of young men has always been very variable; The worst contracts, the worst wages, the biggest suspects on the street... In the presence of affairs, they are young who receive the most pleasing resolutions, and Europe has been the model of it as a whole. The most important challenges described by ILO in relation to youth employment around the world, and not just among us, highlight the low level of labour demand and lack of decent jobs for young people; segmented labour markets that penalize young people; the mismatch between the training and education they receive and the qualifications required by the market, and the difficult transition from study to work and young people's ignorance of where and how to look for work. Mrs Zulaika, this is not just our problem; it is a global problem, although we have to face it. The consequences of this situation can certainly question the model of society that we have had so far. And it's that if a generation doesn't get on the train in time, we're all behind schedule. If the age of access to employment and housing is delayed, an independent life project is delayed, the formation of a family is delayed, the contribution to the common effort of all is delayed. And I have to tell you that applying the guarantee income to young people under the age of eighteen does not take them out of precariousness; it helps them, but does not take them out of precariousness. Unemployment is not a cold statistic, which we sometimes handle. It affects our economy, it affects our health, it affects our dignity. It reflects the void and loss of meaning for those who are involuntarily in it, temporarily or almost permanently. There is a tendency to assume that good work with rights and good wages is a privilege of minorities alone, and that the normal thing is that work will proliferate as flexible, without rights and with low wages. We are talking about moving from the concept of lifelong employment to lifelong employability. This has positive and negative readings. We are not going to have jobs like before, but we have to seek decent employability for life. Therefore, the precarious work that young people are suffering worries us, and we try to solve it with the actions and plans that I have mentioned before. And yet we recognize the work that is being done from other areas, such as the Basque Youth Council, which has prepared the document you have shown us and which we have also read and heard, where it contains prescriptions and recommendations for drawing up employment plans. I will be meeting with them shortly to learn more about the proposals they are making and to be able to detail the future cooperation with them in this area. But stay, Mrs. Zulaika, with my question too, not just me with your question. What could have been done during the four years of Gipuz? Yes, Mrs. Zulaika, the same, as we can, but not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u54	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members of the staff have been made to the president about the editorial nomination of the Uribe ESI manager." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u55	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, last March Osakidetza called various places to, by the procedure of free designation, cover management positions of its structure. Among them was the address of Uribe's new OSI. The wife of the health adviser has been appointed to that position, after being the only person who attended the process. The woman of the health counselor is therefore appointed. Do you consider, in accordance with political ethics, the appointment of the wife of a counselor to hold a high office of the Government for the procedure of free appointment? How can you explain this to Parliament and society? What justification do you have? And, I insist, not so much if you think it's legal, but if you think it's ethical.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Man, Mr. Maneiro, high office of the government, high office... Look, this week the advisor himself has offered all the explanations required, and also the government spokesman, and I have no objection to repeating that. But it is important to know the whole process. I could talk to you since 2010, but you, Mr. Maneiro, already have to know him, too. Osakidetza is immersed in a plan to integrate the management of reference hospitals with their regions. It is the OSI, the comprehensive health organization. It is a recommendation of the World Health Organization, and it is initiated in Gipuzkoa by the previous Government, in the last legislature. In 2014, last year, three integration processes were carried out, and this year began with another four, including that of Uribe in Bizkaia, which must carry out the integration for the start-up of the Urduliz hospital. And in all cases, in all cases, the pre-existing teams, Mr Maneiro, have been maintained, first with provisional appointments, and immediately convoking the places, which being managerial positions are of free designation. And in the case you ask, Mr Maneiro, exactly the same procedure has been applied. The same. And I would like to remind you that it was in August 2009 when this person was appointed managing director of Uribe by the previous government, which was not of the Basque Nationalist Party, without any intervention by the current health adviser, who has been since December 17, 2012. On 1 January this year, the eighteen or nineteen managers of the ISOs, of all the ISOs subject to this procedure, all of them (all of them) were appointed on a provisional basis, and have competed for places. And this professional has not had any favor regarding the other colleagues who were in their same conditions in the process of transforming the organization of Osakidetza, and so it has been in all cases of reordering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u59	Yes, thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. Despite the fact that the spokesperson who has on his right I think he was saying to me, when I asked the question or ended the question, that "of all life", he was saying (I think you were saying "of all life", "this has been so of all life", or something like that), well, to me this seems ugly, to me this seems unethical, to me this seems unpresentable to society, and it seems to me very difficult to justify, and I think that these practices, whoever does them, must be changed. And I believe that in this matter we are analysing three different situations. On the one hand, the appointment of the woman of a certain counsellor so that she can exercise a certain position of free designation, and this has to be explained to society as a whole with hair and signs. This is the first thing. The second, that an OSI is created that does not actually integrate anything, when it seems evident that the configuration or creation of this OSI is not at all necessary. And there is, therefore, a second doubt: why this OSI is created and why no other OSI is created, when it gives the impression that it was not really necessary in this particular case. And, thirdly, I think it also deserves you to explain the salary of this person in relation to the salary he had before, for transparency, as legal as it may be, for many times that similar procedures have been carried out in the past or in the present. I think this deserves an explanation. Why this person is appointed, why the counselor appoints his wife to that position (how legal, we consider it unethical), why this OSI is created, and indeed what soil this person is going to have, what are its merits in gaining access to this position. The truth is that she was finally appointed as managing director before being appointed interim director. With this background, it is normal that when the competition was called, no more candidates would be nominated for the free-assignment position. You already knew who was going to occupy it, and besides, she was the counselor's wife. I don't like these practices at all. It seems to me that they are not presentable. It seems to me that they can be legal, but that they are very unethical, and that is why I have asked you why you proceed in this way, if you have strong arguments to be able to explain it to society as a whole. We certainly don't like it at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, it is customary in the full-control sessions of the Basque Government that you come here with questions or inquiries in which you question the ethics of the members of the Government or of the Government as a whole, or of the decisions taken by the Government. He has also reiterated today that he finds it unethical. Look, your attitude is the attitude that I find most manipulative in each of your interventions, in these sessions of full control, because it does not attend, does not attend to the answers offered to you. He doesn't care what we can say. The creation of the OSI of Uribe has followed the same criteria as the rest of the OSI contemplated or constituted according to the established plan, and in this OSI the same five-person management team that was when it was called the health region continues to work. The entire team covers the same positions, with the same rank in the organization. And the managing director, Mr. Maneiro, has been in this region since 2006, and from 2006 to 2009 as medical director, and then as managing director. And not named by the current Health Advisor, Mr. Maneiro (which is also the Board of Directors of Osakidetza who appoints, not the Health Advisor), and charging exactly the same as now. There hasn't been any favors. It is a process that affects more than fifty managers. This year has been nineteen, and in all cases the same procedure has been followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the Mist of the Gorka Maneiro Labay, a member of the President of the House ofUPyD, concerning the propriety of the person appointed to direct the Security Department." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u63	Yes, Mr Lehendakari, I give you a brief and concise account of the work done and achieved and the successes of the current Security Adviser. I think it can be summed up as follows: everything that at the beginning of the legislature worked badly, today continues to work badly, and everything that worked well, now, either doesn't work or works badly. This is the "successful" balance sheet – between quotes – of the current Security Advisor. How do you feel about this balance sheet? Do you consider that you chose well when you elected the current Security Adviser to fill that position? Do you think Mrs. Beltran of Heredia is the right person to run the Department of Security? In short, the department accumulates problems, conflicts accumulate, solutions are not provided, virtually nothing is solved. The Ertzaintza agents are constantly facing the Department of Security. Something will have to look at the actions carried out by the counselor. Some responsibility you'll have. That's why I'm asking you about your assessment of the work done by the counselor all this time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, balance by balance, I think mine will be more rigorous than yours. The Counsellor has demonstrated from day one her ability to lead the Department of Safety and Security at a time of transformation. It has the full confidence of the lehendakari and the Government. That is why it remains in its responsibility. The adviser, and the department as a whole, and also the Ertzaintza, are making a decisive contribution to the gradual improvement of security levels in the Basque Country. Ballance, Mr. Maneiro? For, the number of crimes and faults was reduced in 2014 to 39.65 per 1,000 inhabitants, consolidates its downward trend, and is seven points below the average in the State. Ballance? According to the Sociometer, only 2% of the population considers crime and insecurity one of the problems of Euskadi, and this issue also ranks 15 in the ranking of personal concerns. Mr Maneiro, we are living a new time, and the department has launched the Horizon 2016 plan and a new police model according to the founding spirit and adjusted to the disappearance of the direct threat of ETA also to the Ertzaintza. I do not hide the problems with union representation, but the management of security, Mr Maneiro, is much more, and the results are positive. Euskadi is safer and better served thanks to the coordination of services integrated into the Basque Public Security Plan promoted by this adviser, who obviously has my full confidence and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u67	Yes, thank you. Mr Lehendakari, you highlight the advisor's ability to lead the organization, and you do say that you support the work she has done and is making a positive assessment of all this time. I would ask you also to talk about the unresolved problems or the problems created during these two and a half years, because there are also them. And there are many, and they are problems that are kept in time and that do not end up being solved. And the advisers of the Government and the Government have to demonstrate their ability to solve the problems, and it is clear that this counsellor does not have that ability to solve the problems. And there they are. And I can quote you some questions. Practically since this Government took office, there has been a confrontation between the Department of Security and the Ertzaintza trade unions, a disagreement that, far from being appeased, has been increasing in its intensity. All the Ertzaintza trade unions have been protesting to Parliament every week about the lack of dialogue and the imposition of various measures which they consider to be inadequate for the proper functioning of the police. Last Friday all the unions with representation in the body announced that they increase the mobilizations against the cuts and the Horizon 2016 plan, and that during the summer will change the fines for measures of road education. In addition, some 6,000 officers have sent letters to the lehendakari (to you they have sent letters, and to the security adviser), demanding that the department sit down and negotiate the working conditions of the ertzainas. You are well aware of your demands: to put an end to the cuts, to cut down on the annual day, to negotiate a new RPT and its subsequent transfer competition, to implement the professional career, to negotiate a new agreement, and to stop the Horizon 2016 plan. There are other matters that summarize how the department is doing: the chasms of appointments; irregularities in the use of cars by the commanders, which has led to the imputation of two high offices; the hundreds of commissions of services, or the dismantling of the Investigation Unit. We are, therefore, faced with a cluster of wrong decisions, problems that remain in time. The counselor is not for you to simply say that your work has been extraordinary, but for you to be able to effectively solve the problems. And the agents of the Ertzaintza are absolutely outraged by their daily work. We have them at the door of this Parliament every week. So, I think what you should do is stop the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, the counselor is about to develop the government program, like the rest of the counselors and counselors, that we have a government program to develop. And this Government does not elude or hide the problems, and what we do is to address them and try to offer solutions from realism and from the will of understanding, which is not an exclusive issue of this Government, but also of understanding with the representatives of the agents. What's the problem? With the agents, or with the agents' representatives? This is our responsibility, to address the problems and to try to offer solutions. Look, you say that the agents have addressed themselves by letter to the adviser, and it is true, as true as they have already received reasoned and documented answers to each and every one of the questions raised, Mr Maneiro. Yes, from that will of understanding. I would like to quote the answer which the agents have received from the adviser herself in relation to the leave for private affairs and leave for seniority; in relation to the negotiation of the new regulatory agreement; in relation to the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016 plan; in relation to the payment of the supplement on the economic benefits of the INSS up to 100 % of the remuneration in cases of temporary incapacity losses; in relation to the recovery of purchasing power and contributions to Itzarri; in relation to the negotiation of the RPT and the transfer competition; in relation to the reduction of the annual working day; in relation to the negotiation of the entire calendar of the Ertzaintza; in relation to the implementation of the agreed career. Counselor's response to all Ertzaintza agents, Mr Maneiro, from that will of understanding. And I confirm that, since the exercise of responsibility, too, the Department of Safety will not fail in the ongoing effort to open negotiating lines to reach agreements for the permanent improvement of the working conditions of the Ertzaintza as a whole. This is the will of the counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-UPyD members have been made to the president about the opinions of our Dagoli's motives." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u71	Yes, Mr. Lehendakari, another question. On Sunday various marches and rallies promoted by the Gure Esku Dago platform were held in the capitals of the Basque Country, Navarre and the French Basque Country, in favor of the independence of the Basque Country and what is called "right to decide". They were attended individually by prominent members of the Basque Nationalist Party, the party that governs the Basque Autonomous Community. From the Basque Government – and this is what we think is most remarkable – his spokesman saw positive and good such acts, and an exercise in freedom of expression, while EITB made a remarkable deployment live and with connections throughout the day to report on the matter. In other words, these actions, these acts were enthusiastically supported by EITB, including reports. In any case, I ask you specifically for the first thing. Why do you consider these positive and good acts? Positive and good for who? One thing is that freedom of expression is clearly being defended, which no one is questioning, but the other thing is that the Government comes out of the way and says that these acts are actually positive. How does this type of act benefit society as a whole? How does it benefit that there is a part of society that defends the right to decide, that is, that it defends raising borders, rather than breaking them down? This is why I ask you: if you consider that it is positive for society the confrontation that would mean going towards a referendum scenario on independence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u73	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Another answer, Mr. Maneiro. Last Sunday the platform Gure Esku Dago organized a citizen mobilization to claim in a positive and festive way an absolutely legitimate and democratic claim. If you ask me if an agreed, institutionally and legally endorsed consultation would be positive for Euskadi, the answer can only be one: yes, no doubt. Look, you criticize the presence of leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party also in your justification of the question, and for that matter I think it would be best for you to ask them, but I do not think that you yourself can draw attention to it, nor can anyone be surprised that leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party participate in a vindictive and peaceful act on the right to decide. In any case, and going to what you also stated in your statement in the rostrum, you deliberately confuse the right to decide independently, you deliberately link a referendum with confrontation, and you will know why. You know the position of the Government and of the Lehendakari, I have put it to your questions on numerous occasions in this Parliament, and, I insist, there is a paper that is working on self-government in Parliament, and I have defended on numerous occasions that an inclusive political agreement is needed to ensure, adapt and advance self-government in the Basque Country, which is approved by this Parliament and ratified by Basque society. And this is the procedure I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u75	Yes, lehendakari. I have pointed out one fact, that representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party took part in those events, and I have pointed out what the spokesman for the Government said, that this act does seem positive and good to him. Obviously, freedom of expression must prevail here and everyone can defend what he or she thinks, but the Basque Government has indeed taken a stand in favour of a concrete act that demands the right of a part of society to decide to impose it on society as a whole. That's the difference. The question I am asking you is, therefore, whether this Government effectively defends the right to decide, and, if so, when and how and with what support they will implement it. On what date? If they're going to continue to deceive citizens, and if they're going to continue to play the double game: right to decide yes, but they don't say when or how. The usual double political game, therefore, of the Basque Nationalist Party. Because the right to decide does exist, but not the right that claims Basque nationalism: the right to decide by society as a whole to decide on matters that fall within its competence. This is the difference. And when there is a part of society that claims a right to decide only part of society, to decide the future of the country, or to decide matters that involve the whole of society, a democratic government would have to say that that does not exist. The right to decide, understood as you understand, does not exist. There is the right to decide on the whole of Spanish society, and Basque society can decide on the basis of its competences. But the future of the country, of Spain, or the future of the model of state, or the change of the model of state, or the change of the Spanish Constitution, we have to decide it by all Spanish citizens. The other is a manifest illegality. And the Basque Government, instead of saying that it is a positive act, should say that it is an impossible act, because it is illegal and it is impossible to put it into practice. This is the explanation of my question. What you should defend is an open and plural society. Breaking down borders, instead of lifting them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I believe that not only in the right to decide, but also in the right to decide: in many matters being debated in this Parliament, I believe that the reality for you is as you think it is, or as you say it is, a single Member of Parliament in this House of seventy-five Members. I have said on more than one occasion that I defend the institutionalization of the right to decide, its procedure and its exercise from an agreement on a legal basis. I have also stated that, above and beyond the specific approaches of each one, the need for a country agreement, a great political agreement on the future of self-government, which adapts our competences to the needs of Basque society and today's reality, is felt. You, Mr Maneiro, are continuing to move your head in a negative direction right now, which is also denying what I have been saying in all the speeches I intend to give you, and I say, I insist, to adapt our self-government both in Euskadi and in the State and in Europe. You, Mr Maneiro, intend to confuse dialogue with confrontation, and it is you, Mr Maneiro, who prefers the terrain of confrontation to that of agreement. I prefer dialogue, I prefer negotiation, I prefer consensus and I prefer agreement, and I believe that the vast majority of this society too. Indeed, in Scotland a legal and agreed consultation between all parties became a model of democratic, peaceful and constructive decision-making, a model for both Scotland and the United Kingdom and for Europe as a whole. Why do you deny the legal possibility that in the Spanish State and in Euskadi this is possible, worth redundancy? Why do you deny it? Where do you sit, with the majority, or in the absolute, unique minority of your representation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the American Society of Carmelo Barrio Barroja, a member of the United States Administration and Justice, in order to create ten other courts of justice concerning the demand made by the Chief Court of the Esunomia of Erdi. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u79	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all, Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, these days (last weekend, Monday too) there were interesting information, about the development of our justice bodies, in the press on two different issues, the truth: one, the memory 2014 and the needs for 2015, and another, a document, interesting also, requested by the General Council of the Judiciary to our High Court of Justice in relation to needs and where to go shooting during this period of time 2016-2020, it seems, for what we have seen through the media. It is quite clear that, for all this development, a machinery has to work, starting with the requests of the court, which will have to continue with the updates of the General Council of the Judiciary, with the activity of the Ministry of Justice, but also with the work of the Basque Government in relation to what can be, during that period, to strengthen in an important way the work of our judicial bodies, in this case through the creation of ten courts, is what is spoken of. There's also talk of an appeals room... And, in that sense, we would like to know, in a constructive and positive context, because it is good, it is good to see what steps are being taken to strengthen the capacities of justice, its work, and to adapt it to the new needs, because that is what we have seen, that is what it is about, and that is also what we know, because we have spoken to members of the governing body of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. In that regard, we would like to know what provision – because, of course, cooperation is essential for budgetary matters, which are competent in relation to these matters, I would like to say again, in a well-oiled machinery with other institutions – what provision Mr Erkoreka's department is in to deal with investments in infrastructure, equipment, for the creation of these new courts requested, in a first stage, by the governing body of the High Court of Justice, and how you value that request. I mean, are you also aware of her, they've worked on those keys... Is that what you're talking about? I think it's important. Again, this weekend's news talked, on the one hand, about memory and the qualitative aspects that a memory should contain, but it talked about a future in relation to strengthening our justice in the Basque Country. And we consider the attitude of the Basque Government to be important and essential, and we want to know what provision it is in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u80	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, indeed, as you have stated, on 22 May last the Governing Chamber of the High Court of Justice agreed to initiate a procedure calling for the creation of ten new judicial units in the area of the Autonomous Community, as well as an appeal section in the Civil and Criminal Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country itself. It's an important request. The ten judicial units are three in the commercial sphere for the three capitals, four in the criminal sphere for the three capitals and for Barakaldo, and then three additional units, one of violence against women for Araba, one of prison surveillance also for Álava, and another mixed, first instance and investigation, which would have its location in Azpeitia. It is an important request, but it is the first step in a procedure that is initiated at the request of the General Council of the Judiciary, but that has to follow the steps provided for in articles 20 and following of the Law on Demarcation and Judicial Plant, for the accommodation of the judicial plant to the actual needs. This procedure includes an intervention by the General Council of the Judiciary itself, which will issue its judgment on this matter, and an intervention by the affected Autonomous Community, which in this case is us, is the Basque Autonomous Community, and the Basque Government in particular, which will receive a request from the Ministry for a report on this matter. Well, this is not always achieved; in the actual decree issued by the central government, which finally puts an end to the procedure, it is not always possible for the initial proposal to be reflected. In fact, last year, 2014 (and I mean 2014 because in the three years immediately preceding, for budgetary reasons, it was not agreed to create any new judicial unit), 2014 there was a proposal by the government room that received the approval, that is, that it received the amparo, the express support in report issued by the Basque Government, but that, however, it was not finally reflected in the actual decree that ended the procedure. As far as what is taking place this year, look, the Basque Government, indeed, as you pointed out, is acting in perfect harmony on this point with the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, as it cannot be otherwise. We are aware of the request you have made. When the information and opinion of the Basque Government is requested from the ministry on this matter, I can assure you that it will be a positive report, we will issue a positive report supporting the proposal of the Government Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. And if finally the proposal culminates in the actual decree to end the procedure by effectively collecting all the request, then we will immediately put all the mechanisms and all the infrastructures necessary for that request to be carried out, and the judicial units that the government chamber has requested to create can be launched as soon as possible and adapt the judicial plant to the objective needs of the provision of justice to the Autonomous Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u82	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u83	Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. I would like to thank the Councillor for his answer. Indeed, there is news that sometimes in the press there are sketches, but that however they are silent. I believe that it is news that has to do with strengthening justice, with the work that these judicial bodies have to do in the coming years, with strengthening them through the creation of these ten courts. It's well explained why... well, not in the media, but we've learned why, and they're real needs. That is, I believe that, without prejudice to the involvement of other organs of the State Justice Administration, the important thing is to know and know – of course, the adviser here has done so – the involvement of the Basque Government. We understand that qualitatively it is a quiet news: ten new courts and an appeals room in the coming years is something that will strengthen the action of justice, and let us hope that this machinery is well greased between the Basque Government and the corresponding institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Erkoreka jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I have nothing but, in fact, to ratify our best willingness to continue working with the Administration of Justice to improve the provision of the service of justice, and to assure you that in the processing of this procedure our involvement will be the greatest, and our best, provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u86	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Eva Blanco de Angulo Enhu, and the head physician of the police society, in order to change the state of people who have no homes." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u87	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, Mr. Toña. We've often talked of social neglect in this legislature. We know that social rupture is becoming more and more apparent, and through many undertakings we have shown our anxiety to those collective ones who are suffering the consequences. Today we ask you about the people who are in extreme poverty, the crude, tough faces of neglect, because we have to make sure that there are at least 1836 people in the Rue and in the gym, or in the shelter services of social services. Nay, in the last two years the number of women is increasing, and the number of minors is 7,3 percent, so the problem is not light. And that's why today we'd like to know what it's like to change the state of people who don't have a home. And this question has its origin, because we have to remember the legislature on November 7th, 2014, the solution of the monographic discussion on the monographical strategy that would have to be developed by the "EH Collection." In that complete gathering, we'd ask if we'd be happy, including EAJ, to have the radical strategy of changing the state of people without homes in a year together with the socialists. And we are not the only ones who see that this strategy is necessary, but the socialists think it necessary, as well as the other two other platforms which constitute more than 20 groups of societies and associations. Yesterday he denounced the death of the fourth homeless man who had been here this year. Therefore we would like to know for all things: On the level of attention and co-ordination which he requires, he's working to have an integrated strategy of the changing state of people without homes, that is, a monographic discussion about unemployment and poverty on November 7th of 2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. I'm sure you're the one who's the one who's talking to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u89	The President of the legislature, the President, the Chief, the Chief of Sessions, the Member of Parliament, good day. We are exposed to the most alarming form of association, and it is so. But I think we need to clear up some points. In these times of crisis the situation continues. And yet that data doesn't make any difference to this subject, of course. The count of October 2014 was made in the 10 townships, and the 2012 only in the three capitals. It is natural, therefore, that more people who sleep in the streets at night should appear. Of the 1.836 people found in the last count, most of them are part of an attention service. It's spent the night on the street with323 people. The growth of people staying on the street is not only due to the increase in the number of people in the capitals, but also to the incorporation of more analyzed municipalities: 243 people were in the capitals in 2012, but in three cities, and 247 in 2014, but in ten municipalities. With the crisis, the process of social integration of the homeless is prolonging over time and becoming chronic. We know, we are aware that the fight against the most severe social exclusion, which is our responsibility, is regulated and bounded by the Social Services Act, which gives this Government legislative and regulatory competence. And yesterday we have the most Holy One in our minds, and we must always have it in our heads.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u91	We don't think you've taken advantage of the chances you've made to solve the problem we've put in. And we're stuck in the leadership and coordination of EH Collecton. In November, when the leadership has passed, we and you and we saw that it was necessary to start the strategy, to end the leadership and co-ordination, with the state of unhomed people and the extreme neglect. You have appointed the Social Services Act, and I am glad that you do so, because as far as our competences are concerned, we believe that you have something to say here. Because the Social Services Act states that there can be sectoral plans as long as the need is justified, establishing joint interdepartmental and inter-institutional lines of work. If it seems to you that this need is not justified, you will see. What we are saying is that there is no coordination, that from one municipality to another there is a lot of difference in resources, there is a lot of difference in attention, and what we are asking you to do is to take advantage of the third sector's hand to make a common strategy, to coordinate it, to lead it, and to do that follow-up and end this problem that obviously nobody likes. This is only what we are asking of you, which already appears in a resolution, as I have said, from the plenary on 7 November. This is what we ask of you; this is what we ask of you, and this is what we hope you will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u93	Yes, we have something to say, Mrs. Blanco. As I was saying before, it's like making social services and making laws on them. In fact, the neglect of those who don't have the housing really concerns us. But without deceiving ourselves, we know that it has a solution, because it is not only by the will of the institutions, but also by the will of those who live it. I think you've been out of Paris, and you've noticed, too, how many people are in the street. We are helping in the count once and for two years in the three townships and in the townships of the townships. The Social Services Act, which we have both mentioned, states that municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants will have services for emergency care to deal with critical situations determined by the lack of accommodation. Having said that, we know that the vast majority of these municipalities do not have sufficient resources for this group, to properly care for them, so precisely this is why an additional provision was included in the drafting of the portfolio decree for the Basque Finance Council to enable a provision fund of 10 million euros for 2016, specifically. Look what's going on in the world, Mrs. Blanco, and in Europe, including us. And see what we've got here, compared it, and from there...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u94	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Time is up. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that the American members of the Basque Socialists, in the United States, have been written to the Chief of Economics in Economics and competency, and to the commercial campaigns which offer the best saving of the consumers." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u95	Thank you, President. Counsel, this June, the Finance Department of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council addressed the Vice-Advisor of Commerce of the Basque Government to ask her to stop the sales promotion campaigns being carried out by different commercial establishments with the hook of not applying VAT on the products offered. The Gipuzcoana estate understands that these campaigns have a misleading impression of taxes on consumers: these claims contribute to presenting VAT as something annoying or harmful to the purchase of products and of what can be dispensed without problems; they come to suggest, in fact, that the application of VAT is something voluntary by the seller trade. In a society in which the awareness of tax fraud is not yet all the robustness that would be desirable, and where the supply of invoices with or without VAT still prevails in some sectors, this type of campaign is particularly rejectable, because it involves a case of misleading advertising and because it frustrates a civic obligation as essential as that of paying the taxes that we have to pay. For this reason, Commissioner, we ask you what measures your department will take to curb the commercial campaigns that are being carried out with the claim not to pass on to buyers the VAT of the products.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Mrs Corcuera, as you said, advertising campaigns with slogans such as "Day without VAT", "Save your VAT", "We discount your VAT", "We pay you VAT". And these practices, in addition to unfortunate ones, create confusion. Confusion among consumers, which may lead to the impression that VAT is applicable or not depending on what is desired in a given trade. And they also believe that the distribution sector itself, because of these doubts, because of the type of campaigns, and secondly because of this precisely because there is a lack of corporate rigour and a lack of rigour in the actions that each one has to carry out, in the tax obligations in the final analysis. It has become clear, without any doubt, that VAT is a tax on consumption, on the purchase of each of the persons we go to make certain purchases, and that this is obligatory and each of the purchases and acquisitions we make is subject to VAT, say what the aforementioned campaigns say. Promotional offers may in their case apply discounts equivalent to what VAT may be, but in no case stop paying or leave aside the obligation to pay VAT. Therefore, in addition to this pernicious effect on citizen awareness, it is evident that these slogans are not true. In short, these practices have that double negative effect. And as we have warned, and we have also received the request of the Gipuzkoa Foreign Office, we have set up a working table (because it is not only up to the department I represent, in the Directorate of Commerce, but also in the Directorate of Kontsumobide and in the Directorate of Tax Administration), in order to act in a coordinated way and to put an end to this type of practice, acting in depth, taking a series of actions aimed at ending them. We have also invited the Basque Competition Authority to join the working group, because we believe that action must be taken in different areas, in particular in three areas: firstly, the prosecutor, in order to require the payment of legally established taxes; information, training and awareness-raising on the rights and obligations of consumers and establishments; and also to analyse the issue of competition between different companies, in this case dedicated to trade. These have been the actions that have been set in motion so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u99	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, thank you for the answer. I understand then that what they have set in motion is a working table, and let us hope that those results of the actions to be carried out will arrive as soon as possible. We socialists understood that their department had to take letters on this issue, because it is true that in these advertising campaigns VAT is never stopped when a purchase is made, it is also true that it has harmful effects on the effort that is being made from public administrations, because public resources are allocated in civic education and tax education campaigns to raise the awareness of society about the importance of complying with the law on taxation, and how we play, depending on public income, to dispose or not of the welfare state that we all deserve. These commercial campaigns not only treat without rigour the meaning of taxation, but also counteract the effectiveness of the actions that the Basque Government itself intends to propose in this case. Because the Chairman of the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud was commenting on us a few days ago, in committee, he proposed that the Basque Government was already launching the inclusion in ESO's fourth school curriculum of a subject in terms of tax information, knowledge and awareness of schoolchildren of that age, for the next course. It is also true that the Basque Sociometer of July 2015 indicated that in the section on democratic culture, and with regard to the opinion on not declaring all revenue or VAT on invoices to the Treasury, the Sociometer said that 79% considered that attitude unacceptable. That is why we understand that, while respecting trade freedom in terms of campaigns and promotions, there are certain issues that cannot and should not be used without rigour, because of the side effects on society. And also, in the case of fiscal awareness, because, in addition to generating confusion, they are fostering undesirable incivic attitudes. Therefore, what I hope is that those actions of the working table (because we agree in the analysis), that these actions will arrive as soon as possible, because these campaigns are not of a certain time, but are taking place throughout the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u101	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Corcuera, in full agreement with what you have quoted, and that is why we have set up the working table. And it is not a one-off action that moves companies to eliminate that definition of "VAT-free", but also, in some way, put in place systematic concrete actions, leading us to these three concrete actions: that we must ensure and demand compliance with the tax side's rebate, the taxes that correspond to this activity; that we must continue with training and awareness-raising, and, above all, that we must act in such a way as to ensure that everyone works under the same conditions of competition, that is, that there is fair competition between all establishments. Therefore, in addition to taking concrete action on these advertising campaigns, we are going to take more structural and systematic action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "Interface, Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de lópez, Muuninka Popula, members of the United States, made to Enplegu and the Chief of Police Society, as to the definitions and purposes of the service of help." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u103	Thank you, Madam President, Mr. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. The purpose of Law 12/2008 on Social Services of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is to promote and guarantee, within our community, the right to social services and services through the regulation and management of a Basque system of social services on a universal basis. A differentiating element that this law brings with respect to the previous law. It also incorporates the necessary management and coordination instruments, of which the former law lacked, to achieve full compliance with the objective of the law, which, as it stated, is to promote and guarantee the right to social services. The Act articulates instruments through the catalogue of services and services. This catalogue classifies social services for primary care, secondary care and economic benefits. The law further states that from this catalogue the portfolio of services and services will be drawn up, which defines the aspects that each service and economic service must contain. Decree 144/2011 of 28 June 2011 regulates the public service of tele-assistance. Decree defining tele-assistance as a technical service for support and social intervention, which allows users, through the telephone line and with specific communication and computer equipment, to have a permanent service 24 hours a day and every day of the year, attended by persons specifically prepared to respond adequately to situations of social or emergency need. Definition also contained in the decree document of the charter of services, which also specifies that a contact service (devices and terminals) must be provided with data registration (identification of users), personal care to ensure in case of need the presence in the place of the appropriate persons, and objectives that are clear: to promote the permanence and integration in the family and social environment of persons with lack of autonomy and who may need supervision; to provide permanent connection with the care networks to improve their quality of life and provide them with security, and to provide support to the social and family support network that assumes the family care of the users. We have a very clear definition for the tele-assistance service, it is also very clear with what means the service should count, and the objectives of the tele-assistance service are also very clear. This service is provided by management commission through Osatek, which awarded to a company, Televida and GSR, this service. Osatek in his annual report says on the teleassistance section: "The public teleassistance service of the Basque Government (from now on BetiOn) is the result of the cooperation between the Department of Health and the Department of Employment and Social Policy, for the provision of a comprehensive set of health and social services in a non-personal way". And I wonder: in the definition of the tele-assistance service, in the objectives of the tele-assistance service, in the means that are contained in the letter of service, where does it appear that the tele-assistance service has to provide health services? I ask you, Counselor, because we haven't seen him. In addition, Osatek, in his conclusions, in the section on memory, two sheets referring to the teleassistance service, says: "Teleassistance represents a model of comprehensive care focused on the person, whose fundamental aspect is to meet his social and health needs, in a coordinated way both in his preventive aspect and in the care. It will also continue with the support of Osakidetza for the standardization of telemonitoring as an assistive tool. Teleassistance provides almost unlimited potential development, and plays a key role in conjunction with another set of measures: home help, self-care support products, patient education, promoting social participation, improving accessibility to housing, home applications, etc." Mr. Counsellor, do you believe that these conclusions that Osatek contains in his annual report of the teleassistance service coincide with the definition of teleassistance given both in Decree 144/2011 and in the decree of the service portfolio? Do you think they match? What do you mean, Mr. Counsellor, "almost unlimited potential development"? Where is telemonitoring included within the teleassistance service? If it does not appear in the decree or in the service portfolio, what is the reason for this inclusion? Counselor, we are talking about social services; social services as is the case with the teleassistance service for a very sensitive, very vulnerable group, and gives us the impression that here it does not coincide, who has the commission to provide the service, with the laws that we have endowed ourselves (Social Services Act, decree, portfolio of services), which clearly define the definition, the objective and the means. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, I would like to know what your criterion is, and whether you really believe that the objective and conclusions drawn by Osatek are consistent with those of the decree, the law and the portfolio of services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u105	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. First of all, I will explain the definition of service and the targets which appear in the order of reference 144/2011 on the 28th of June. Telehelp, in legal text, is defined within the basic support of social service as a technical protection. This enables users to keep an eye on 24 hours a day, by means of a telephone, communication equipment, and specificly prepared persons, and they answer social needs and emergency situations. The objectives set out in this decree are four: to promote the permanence and integration into the normal family and social environment of persons who, due to limitations in their autonomy or because they are at risk of social isolation, may require urgent care or frequent or constant supervision, both at home and abroad, avoiding unnecessary entry into residential or health services; to provide comprehensive care to users through a permanent connection with care networks, which improves their quality of life and strengthens their sense of autonomy and security at home; to provide immediate intervention in situations of social or emergency need; and, fourthly, to provide support to the socio-family environment that takes care of users. In view of the definition and the objectives set out in that regulatory decree for the public service of teleassistance, I have to say that Osatek duly complies with them. Article 22 of Law 12/2008 of 5 December 2008 on Social Services includes in its catalogue of services and services of the Basque System of Social Services the service of teleassistance, declaring itself the direct action of the Basque Government in accordance with its article 40. For its part, article 46 of the Social Services Act provides that social and health care shall include the care package for persons who, because of serious health (health) problems or functional limitations and/or risk of social exclusion, require simultaneous, coordinated and stable health and social care, in accordance with the principle of continuity of care. The teleassistance of social services is part of a global system of provision of home care services, to promote the permanence and integration in the normal family and social environment of people, which is certainly what they want, and offers a permanent connection with the social care network, comprehensive care for users, which ultimately improves their quality of life and strengthens their sense of autonomy and security in the home. The development of this system makes it possible to provide a comprehensive service for non-face-to-face activities, both in the social and health fields, Mrs Carmen López de Ocariz. In relation to social and health care, the cooperation between the Department of Employment and Social Policy and the Department of Health is articulated around a multi-channel platform that allows the provision of a wide range of health and social services in a non-personal way, and this is articulated through a project called Osarean, which has a multi-channel service centre. More and more services, and this type of services in particular, are more and more dual; they are social and health services at the same time. The objectives pursued with the creation of these platforms are as follows. First, to offer citizens the availability of non-personal channels of interaction with 24x7 operation (title, by the way, of a book that I recommend, which is current), twenty-four hours, seven days a week, and which facilitates their accessibility to services. Secondly, to enhance models of innovative care and care in people's homes and to enhance self-care. Thirdly, to promote healthier lifestyles among the population, personalizing, to the extent possible, messages according to the age, state of dependence and state of health of each person. Achieve a preventive effect through remote monitoring of people with chronic diseases and people in situations of dependency or social isolation, enabling them to identify and act on risk situations. And at this point, I have to point out that it has been provided with a social and health dimension that it lacked before it became the competence of the Basque Government in July 2011, with increasing coordination from the point of view of social services and from the point of view of health, but which is in the interest of the users. Therefore, I do not sometimes understand why some questions are asked, that the only thing they do is benefit citizens. An example of this is some of the methods of referral: health advice, telephone advice by Osakidetza's nursing staff, 1,621 referrals in May of this year. The collaboration between the health advisory service and the public teleassistance service, known, as you have said, as BetiOn, fulfills its fourth year of walk. It is the result of the coordinated work with the Osakidetza Emergency Service, which manages the health counselling service available to all citizens, as it cannot be otherwise, 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. And its goal is to be a point of reference for the entire population in requesting a recommendation on how to act in the face of a health problem. If people using teleassistance have a health consultation, they just have to press the medal to get the call to the Osakidetza Health Council. Monthly follow-up calls provide communication and reminders to users of teleassistance of the possibility of being attended by health personnel in the face of any health problems, resulting in such call. In addition, Osakidetza's primary care pre-date service, which certainly makes this service easier for users. As a continuation of the collaboration started in 2012 with Osakidetza, this teleassistance service supports the management of the previous appointment. The advance appointment service offered by the teleassistance service allows users, by simply pressing the medallion, that the teleoperator staff manage an appointment with regular professionals, from their primary health care center, with medical or nursing staff, telephone appointment or personal appointment with medical or nursing staff. The teleassistance centre received 629 requests for appointments in May, which are managed through the Osakidetza website. In addition, a group of users have received a fall detector integrated in the push button, which will allow an analysis of these actions. Talks on the prevention of falls in the home are also given. In the derivations of calls, a correct filtering is carried out towards the proper organization: Osakidetza, or SOS Deiak. It is a step forward, as at the beginning of the service all the pulses of the Araba and Gipuzkoa territories flowed directly into SOS Deiak, without any previous filters. Whoever does what he can, and does more than he should, obeys the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u106	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u107	Counselor, you haven't answered what I asked you. I have told you what the definition of the teleassistance service is contained in the decree and in the service portfolio. It is clear what the legislator's will has been, it is clear, an agreed will. Not at all is mentioned in the definition the duality to which you refer. You don't mention it at all. I repeat the definition: "Technical service for support and social intervention framed in the context of social services of primary care, which allows users, through the telephone line and with a specific communication and information team, to have a permanent service of care 24 hours a day, every day of the year, attended by people specifically prepared to give adequate response to situations of social need or emergency". That's the definition of the teleassistance service. And if we really want to do another kind of service, let's define it, let's realize it, let's set the goals. But today what is contained in the decree and in the service portfolio has nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with that. And you haven't even answered what you mean by unlimited potential. What is that unlimited potential? What does Osatek mean when he talks about unlimited potential? I used to hear Mr Darpón complain that the Spanish Government has a re-centralizing attitude. Well, if it seems opportune to re-centralize around the teleassistance service, to be the unique providers of the infinite attentions and needs that the people within this service can demand... And with the official newsletter in hand, by article 33, jumping the law, jumping the decree, jumping the portfolio of services, providing those unlimited services that users of the teleassistance service may need. I believe, Mr Councillor, that teleassistance is fully defined, and therefore the actions resulting from this service will have to be reflected in the definition. And if not, we will have to change the decree, we will have to change the objectives and we will have to change the means. Because the drift you're taking is suspicious, very suspicious. Very suspicious. You put technical teams of what you think without public competitions, in a bold, de-ca-ra-da way, doing services that are not collected, that are not contained in the definition. And the drift is suspicious. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, I ask you to accept the definition contained in the decree and in the service portfolio. And if not, for what we have law, for what we have decree, for what we have a portfolio of services!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u108	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u109	As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to praise the contribution of the telehelp to the sociantary system we're doing at the Eusong. To put an example, it works like a format of information on the flu's vaccine campaign, with the help of Osarism, and it will be considered the purpose of protecting people who could have problems, especially from the value of 'Fracts' of sixty years old, with chronic occupancy and disease, and getting the intensity of diseases. Good. In general, personalized support for administrative processes relating to the socio-health system provides an opportunity to facilitate the population of BetiOn's relationship with public services, and an improvement for the public administration in the efficiency of demand management. You ask me, Mrs Carmen López de Ocariz, for the technical service of social care, what is the definition. What is the social care a dependent person needs over sixty years of age? Good. The quality of service and the level of user satisfaction have been reported in this House. They're happy, they're happy. But on this occasion I would also like to transfer to you the challenges that have been set, we have set ourselves, for the public service of teleassistance entrusted to Osatek for the period 2015 and 2016, which are a continuation of the so-called BetiOn plan, advances and evolves. And the strategic areas are: implementation of teleassistance in rural areas without coverage, achieving groups of disability and mental health who need health care, home safety, continuing the implementation of advanced teleassistance through other systems such as smoke detectors, gas detectors, etc., support for caregivers. So far, the statement of reasons why I consider that the public service of teleassistance under the Basque Government and entrusted to Osatek is not only offered under adequate conditions, but also has a contrasting quality, which serves as a reference model at the state level, at the international level, in the person-centred home care, and is a pioneer in the state in its socio-health dimension (right, good). Their innovation in the application of socio-health coordination as an articulating pillar of service delivery is the key to success. And most importantly: it adequately caters to users, more than 35,000 at the end of 2015, and accounts for no less than 8% of coverage for those over the age of sixty-five. We do not want to be single providers of social and health services. I'm done. Sometimes the law is not enforced below, due to non-compliance, and it is denounced. Sometimes, I can say that with an excess of giving the citizen more services, we comply with the law, fill it and complete it, even with what is literally not written in the law. If you think we're suspicious of anything, we'll change the law, but don't tell me we don't comply with the law. We've done that and more. And we have no blatant or suspicious intention of doing anything that would benefit someone other than people who need these services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u110	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interpology, written by Detective Casanova Alonso EH Collectors to the head of economics and contestations, about the Euscaltels selling a part of his capital in the bureau." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u111	Thank you. Hello, good morning, everyone. Today, we're going to talk about the Basque Company, and I'm going to put up the subject as an exercise or something. Let's imagine we got a company that comes out of A Point A and comes to Point B. When it starts from point to point, it's public or middle-public, socially well seen, well rated, lucrative, engaged with office and country, useful in the development of technology. Maybe a non-realized company that meets the high standards of experience. When B comes to the point, two years later, if he gets involved in the stock market, if he's privatized, if he's involved in scandals, if he has bad business connections, and we have a company with his name on the line. What happened in those two years? We will try briefly to answer this question, which is not a rhetorical question, but a question that this society has to ask itself: what has happened to Euskaltel? I will be brief, logically, and I will try to go fast, because it is a rather dense issue. In August – to start with some point – in August 2012, this House met in extraordinary session, meeting its Committee on Finance and Budgets in August, in the middle of August, to authorize – with the vote against, yes, of EA and Aralar, and the vote in favour of the rest of the groups – the sale of the fibre optic network or part of that network and of the actions of Euskaltel, owned by the Basque Government, to buyers interested in them. A few months later this sale of shares, as well as the shares held by the Mondragon and Endesa Group, and part of the package held by Kutxabank and Iberdrola, materializes. Two international investment funds were made with 48 % of Euskaltel: Investustrial and the American Trilantic (by the way, former investment mechanism of the Lehman Brothers group). Both create an instrumental society in Holland, International Cable, which will be the one holding ownership of the shares. These funds place their team on Euskaltel's board of directors, and neoliberal madness begins. The most aggressive postulates of capitalism begin to apply in the most extreme way. From the very first moment, even before materializing their investment, these funds had very clear objectives of their operation: to enter Euskaltel, to adapt it to the tastes of the market, to take it out to Bolsa, and to be pocketed the greatest surplus value. For this it was key that Euskatel owned the fiber network (for this they pressed), that he had the least possible staff, and that he had a management team fully committed to this work, for which an aggressive incentive plan is designed to buy his will. Since the privatization of Euskaltel, there has been a premeditated strategy, among other issues, for the destruction of employment. And this is very serious, but it is so: employment has been destroyed on a premeditated basis, not because there were losses or because the operation of the company made it essential, but because the managers of the company wanted to slim down the staff to fatten the price of departure to the Stock Exchange and to bag the substantial bonuses, which perhaps we should call loot. Employment has been destroyed on a premeditated basis because the market likes companies lightened by that annoying burden that is called, or that they call, workers. This is the sick system that some defend as the only possible. This destruction of employment has resulted from a plan of incentivized layoffs, early retirements, non-replacement of retirements and outsourcing of services, which has brought to the workforce of 552 workers approximately 300 workers. It's true that 180 jobs have been eternized. Before this decision there is an appeal in the courts, but they have not disappeared, but they have been banished, they have been sterilized, and in other conditions of work they continue to develop their work. Euskaltel was a profitable company while this was happening. Even in the crisis period, between 2008 and 2014, the company's accumulated profit has been 230 million. The cost of staffing, even when it was 550 people, was only 34 million. In other words, there was no problem here that the viability, not even the profitability of the company, was compromised by an oversized workforce. Here there is an express will to reduce employment. In a ruthless and immoral way, work has been done in Euskaltel to destroy jobs and to make the quality of the remaining jobs worse. In addition, there is a significant wage freeze on the workforce, while the salaries of senior management were rising. But externalisations, moreover, which are not a pure destruction of employment, but lead to a loss of quality in that outsourced employment, also affect substantial parts of what is a technological enterprise. They have not been expelled, they have not been sterilized, aidal services, or low valuations; their chief, central character, their services have been sterilized. Nuclear activities have been outsourced to a telecommunications company, those with the highest technological requirements. We're not talking about catering or cleaning. The transfer of computer systems, the company's technological engine, to GFI, with the exit of 35 workers, and of operations and maintenance to ZTE, with the exit of 145 workers, have left Euskaltel turned into a non-technological, but marketing and management company. That is to say, the whole technological core of the company, practically in its entirety, has been outsourced, and we have a purely service company, in which the technological component is out, even having produced a transfer of technology and know-how to these new multinationals that have absorbed the workforce. In other words, human capital has been lost and technological capital has been lost. That is why we can say that in Euskaltel we are faced with what could be called a process of technological decapitalization, directed (paradoxes of life) by the person who holds the position of president of Innobasque, the Basque Innovation Agency. Similarly, subcontractors and the distribution network and shops have been pressured to adjust the margins, causing serious problems of viability, as we have seen today reported in the press. Likewise, and always in areas of short-term profitability, companies in the country have been replaced by foreign contracts. When the fruit was ripe, the owners decided to sell it and make a box. Investment funds bought 60 million shares at three euros, and now they're going to sell them at 12. The surplus value of this transaction is 540 million, to which must be added the extraordinary dividend – which we will then talk about – of 100 million, and the ordinary dividends received during these two years. We calculate that the net profits obtained in two years by the Trilantic and Investudstrial funds exceed 650 million euros. And 650 million euros in two years on a conservative estimate, because it can be something else. These funds have not been industrial partners; they have contributed nothing, no product, no technology, no markets, no synergies, no know how; only capital and impositions, such as the symbolic but painful dissolution of the cycling team. The only technological contribution of the funds integrated into International Cable is what a journalist – I don't know whether ironically or not – has called "leading team incentive technology". It can be argued that it is the logic of the market, that risks are assumed, that sometimes it is won and sometimes it is lost. I don't think so. I believe that here it was played on insurance, that there was information and that there was a plan; that it was known that the real value of the company was much greater than that established in October 2012. That they have taken advantage of emergencies to buy at a balance price; that they have taken advantage of the need, incompetence or complicity of those who sold their shares at the worst time. That in the world of the Stock Exchange there are smart and dumb, and that in this episode some have played the role of the little town just arrived in the city to which they give the tithe of the stamp. There's been a Paco Martínez Soria Basque here. The bonuses..., I'm not going to talk much about them, because, fortunately, it was a matter we wanted to denounce today, but fortunately this issue has erupted in the form of scandal before public opinion and is already generating the social reproach it deserves. It's a well-known subject, and I'm only going to expand to show the repulsiveness that these attitudes produce, and to state in a clear sense that this money (this money from bonuses, or loot) is stained with the suffering of the fired, the subcontracted, the insecure. It's dirty money; it's paying for a betrayal of the staff and society. The extraordinary dividend that will be charged on account of debt to Euskaltel in another 200 million euros is just as legal as the bonuses, but it is just as immoral, and quantitatively represents a far greater burden for the company. Credits are requested to distribute dividends: 200 million to distribute (100 for Kutxabank and 100 for funds); 200 million that are not used to generate employment, not to invest, not to research, not to develop new products, not to create a research centre, not to improve the country. No, no, The company is in debt, a loan of 200 million is requested, to split the loot. Those who negotiate leonently the working conditions of their employees have no fear of being in debt of 200 million to distribute them to them. How you're going to ask for wage restraint, how you're going to adjust the margins to the network of stores, when this legal looting occurs! In short, jobs have been destroyed for the last two years. The quality and stability of the job that has been stopped has been damaged. There's been sternizations. The underlying subcontractions have been compromised. His wages have been raised to the dome; his wages have been frozen by the workmen. There's been some kind of technology. The degree of mentalization, which was unnecessary, has been taken. The network has been drowned. The cycling team has disappeared. And now, as a guinea, we've seen the bonus affair. Some call this free market; I call it ethical trash, what they have done and who they have done. I propose that Euskaltel use as the motto for his next advertising campaign the War cry of the Hail Witch: "Long live evil, live capital." And in front of this, we ask...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u112	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Your time is up. My representative, Mrs. Tapia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u113	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, I think we've heard a story, your story, which is sometimes not quite true, because scandals, you'll tell me what kind of scandal there has been. Zuk zeuk onartu duzu gauza bat eta beastea, esan duzunean "Employment destruction... Well, not job destruction, what's happened is an outsourcing..." Let's get to business. What happened here? A telecommunication company is the basis of any country structure that is supported. And even more, in a country like ours, in which, though small, the infrastructure of telecommunications, on the one hand, and on the other, the technology services are advanced. And they put us in a comparison with the advanced countries of Europe, which is true and demonstrative. Euscaltel competes with major operators in the world and competes. During the day, the company in the U.S.C.C.C. community is a leader and an strategic company with our country. He's an early one on the ultra-serbic band Internet, digital television, fixed telephony, mobile telephony, and he's also the operator that's growing most in that field segment. And all that doesn't go without technology. You don't do it without a person, and you don't do it without a plan. The autonomy member of the state is ours. At the present day, the coverage of the ultrafast band is from the 91st of the 91st regiment, which, after all, is something that we all do. He said that telecommunications companies are a fundamental basis of the business fabric of any country, and more so in this country, which, despite being small, needs a very important technology, despite that size, and which currently has advanced levels of infrastructure and technological services that allow us to be among the first, at the forefront of European countries, and comparable to the best. And, by the way, Euskaltel is a service company. Of advanced services, different, as I have told you in Basque. Advanced services that must continue to work, at the service of the industry of this country, of course. Not only from industry, but also from the private sector. It competes with world-leading operators, and is, as such, also a leader in the telecommunications sector of Euskadi, a strategic company for the country, and, we cannot forget, giving ultra-fast broadband services, digital television (among the former), fixed telephony, mobile telephony, and other services that will start to be implemented in all that is the segment that works in this sector. Euskadi, we also said, as such, is a community that is, of course, the first in the state, and comparable to the best in Europe. And to do all this, it is true that the public made an important effort. This project is launched from the public, seeing that it was a strategic project, but like others that were launched from the public as companies, such as ITP or was the ACB itself, where the public starts, gives it the necessary impetus and makes it work. And once it is feasible, that private initiative takes the place of the public, as it should be, the public initiative withdraws, which is what it must do to take a position in other companies. He did it at ITP, he did it at ACB, he did it at Euskaltel. Evidently. Because, of course, the public has no vocation to own a company, but to launch companies that are strategic for the country, and this was and was done the same as in any other case. In an environment where technological change and business competition are key to continuing to work, this initial public initiative is key, but, of course, once the company evolves, so is public withdrawal. Therefore, following the departure of the company of the public shareholders in December 2012, a couple of investment funds are incorporated, as you say, into the shareholder of that company. And we all know, when an investment fund is incorporated, what are the rules of a company's performance. What are the rules of action, because these investment funds come to capitalize the company, yes, when it is necessary – because the 2012-2015 capitalization has been important for that company and strictly necessary – but we also know that they come to earn money. They're not charity sisters. Therefore, they come to earn money and make the company viable. And so it is. On that date, however, Kutxabank, Iberdrola and the new partner agreed on a very important thing for Euskadi: to maintain the root of Euskaltel in Euskadi. And they signed an agreement – I said it in this forum – that forced them to maintain, preserve the corporate, fiscal, and headquarters of this company in Euskadi, and also to maintain the brand, the fundamental assets (I mean investment assets and people), also to develop the activity from Euskadi. And that's not disdainable. It is the entrance of investment funds, with their needs, but the good doing of the premises to keep that here. Today, Euskaltel faces a market outlet, and a market outlet represents a number of competitive advantages for any company. In this case, the company itself will strengthen its position as leader operator, leader in the telecommunications sector, and will facilitate its growth and future development. It is going to give you the means you do not have today, it is going to give you notoriety in international markets, it will allow you to maintain your local identity and the company's roots in Basquedi, because it has been signed, and of course it will allow this company to be competitive in the future. At the same time, in the development of the process of analysis of this sale, the shareholders have agreed on a fundamental premise, which is the maintenance of those commitments to anchor the territory that were previously agreed upon. And Kutxabank has included in the agreement to initiate this process its intention to remain a reference partner in Euskadi. Therefore, as a government we can only add that we are faced with a decision taken on the board of directors of a private company. The Government does not intervene in these decisions of private companies, as they are, of course, legitimate. Our task is to create a framework for companies like this to come to Euskadi and stay here. That is the goal: to generate employment, wealth, and to continue the development of a company like this. That is the primary objective. And, of course, what we can't forget is that a company's stock market is good in itself, per se, for a country, and we certainly can't criminalize that. When a company goes out on a stock market it means several things: one, which is successful in its sector; two, which is competitive; three, which has developed a size enough to be able to get to that stock market outlet, and, of course, which has expectations for the future (because the stock market measures expectations for the future), has enough expectations to be attractive to other investors. Then we'd like to have companies on the stock exchange. We have a few, and we'd like to grow and have dimension to have companies on the stock market, because that doesn't mean anything else that we're competitive. Finally, I will refer to the subject of the incentives to which you have also referred, despite the fact that the opinion of this Government is public and published. We advocate as government for a company based on a participatory model and committed to the territory, to the environment, and we are aware, at the same time, that companies that are private capital, like the majority, and some in which investment funds exist, have different practices, such as those we have seen here, common to senior officials and managers. They are decisions of your board of directors, but it is not the business model that we of course intend to push from the government, especially if the ultimate purpose of these actions is to capitalize on the personal profits of these companies. That's not the model. However, in the case of Euskaltel, in addition to its professional success, its entrepreneurial success, which has led it to be able to go out on the market, its shareholders' strategy and its management team's strategy of allowing it to be located there at the moment, the root that they have managed to maintain in Basquedi, have so far expressed their commitment and responsibility to this country. And, although we have warned of what might be the course of shareholders who legitimately respond to other habits with which we do not agree, I am convinced..., no, I know that today the leaders and senior officials of Euskaltel will respond positively to that commitment of Basque company, to that commitment to the root in Basque, to the maintenance, with a social commitment, and that they will turn the profits into investment in the company itself, to make it grow, to keep it rooted here, and to get the workers, starting with the management team and ending with the last worker, to participate not only in the decisions, but also in the company's capital. A model that, of course, we believe will benefit this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u115	Well, where are the scandals in Euskaltel? Well, look, here. Besides, you're in the picture. The scandals are in all the newspapers, and they've been going on for several years. Don't be surprised when I tell you you're surrounded by scandals. I find your attitude very enlightening. I have come to ask you and question a number of very specific things, and you have devoted most of the intervention to reading me the brochure that Euskaltel has sent to the National Securities Market Commission, promoting the services it offers and the possibilities of expansion that the company and so on. If I know this already! If we're not questioning that Euskaltel is a profitable company! If I said so myself! What we are questioning, among other things, is why, as you say, in this country there is a policy that what is profitable is privatized and what is deficient is published. That is the crux of the matter! You tell me, "The government isn't about to have money in companies." Why not? Why not? Then, when things happen in those companies, they get shocked and say, "Oh, but I can't do anything, because it's a completely private company...". Man, it's a completely private company because you've decided to get out of there! And it was the previous government, indeed, but with the favorable votes of the group that supports the current one, and precisely by the mouth of the one who is today an economic adviser. Here there has been a ball, and here there have been a number of issues that need to be clarified, because society demands that they be clarified. How is it possible to multiply the value of a company by three in two years, when there has been no investment or substantial change in its market position? We're talking about pure and hard speculation! And these funds have required the development of an absolutely negative business policy for the workforce and for the country. This is not a coincidence, there has been a demand here. And when Jack the Ripper is invited to dinner, then don't be surprised that you end up or we all end up being dinner. And besides, there was no surprise here, eh!, because on his card he said they were Jack the Ripper. These vulture funds come to what they come to. They come to make cash in the shortest possible period of time, and apply protocols of intervention in very clear companies, in which the staff is the last thing that matters to them. On the contrary, the template is a nuisance. There's nothing more to see on the newspaper's stock exchange pages: when any group reports that they're going to fire, I don't know how many thousands of workers, they'll soon raise the stock exchange. Because the stock market and the markets, in fact, are pirates, who want to make money by completely disconnecting themselves from productive investment, from people's needs, from people's lives, from people's jobs. And that's the kind of partners you brought to Euskaltel, and these are the consequences of hanging out with this guy's so undesirable companies. Because as soon as we talked about Euskaltel we were talking about root, technology, proximity, a good image, the cycling team... and now we're talking about Lehman Brothers, VS, Rothschild, incentives, bonuses, extra dividends. The terminology has changed and the model has changed. That is to be charged with the fact that Y, Ephivivistamente, nostros creemos is to be charged. Here it must be a business model quite different, and we think it's the public sector and the government can guarantee it and guarantee it by making permanent investments and presences in strategic companies. And you're telling me it's a Basque company, but what happened in Basques is that there's been some kind of non-commutation technology, because the technological services were being advanced, but now the kernel is off the company. And I take advantage of this moment to ask for Mr. Garcia's resignation or charges. Or we ask this government to take whatever measures are necessary to prevent Alberto García Eraskin from being president of Innonasque. We believe that a company, a foundation dedicated to technological innovation, cannot have as president a person who has given an ethical spectacle as bad as that given by Mr Erauzkin, and that it has also led his own company to a technological decapitalisation that goes precisely in the opposite direction of the commitment to research and development that has to be made in this country. Here what we need... and what is certainly happening is a reflection of what industrial policy is, or the absence of industrial policy. And I'm also glad, you said it very clearly: "We don't have to be in profitable companies." Here it seems that the public is only to assume losses; it is to launch companies, and then the benefit is paid by four individuals. And he also says to me, "The root of the country is guaranteed." It is true that there are a number of agreements that shield a number of issues, but, seeing so far as the role of guarantor of certain issues that Kutxabank has developed in Euskaltel, is to tremble. Because I don't know if some of the people who are appointed by Kutxabank on Euskaltel's board of directors aren't thinking that what they'd like and their model is to do in Kutxabank the same thing they've done in Euskaltel. If with 49% of the ownership that was in Kutxabank's hands it has allowed all these redundancies, when it is owned only 30%, here anything can happen. It is dugued that there is a responsibility here, there is a discharge from office, on the part of your Government, I do not know whether it is malicious or guilty, but of course what is happening to a large extent can be attributed to your attitude.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u117	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, Mr. Casanova, at last we meet a series of patterns, and finally we come to talk about models. But dolosa and kulpos, be careful, we're talking about a private company, and be careful what you're talking about, be careful what you're talking about! What things, please, take them to their seats. You can argue with what examples you want, but here things can't be said as one says, or as one thinks, because they came to your mouth. Watch your mouth! You said we put money in companies. Obviously! The model that operates in this country, which has worked for a long time, means that the Government has a number of resources in some investment funds, some public and other private-public, for which it acts to, on the one hand, set up some truly technological enterprises, such as these, or where there really are country strategies, puts them in place, makes them grow, helps them to function, and then, of course, makes them..., not returns them, remain in private hands, because that money is again used by the Government to launch other actions. But that doesn't just happen with investment funds. It happens with the Gauzatu program, where we are constantly acting on companies and the money that is being returned is being used for other actions. And it is the way to continue to make a country, because, if not, we would be acting as a government that is not letting the private initiative act, which is the one that really has to act at certain times. You tell me the company has multiplied by an incredible number. I don't know if we understand that stock market entry is a generation of expectations, and that's what's in the telecommunications market right now: expectations. And that's what you're paying for. But, of course, I do not doubt that the root, technology and services are still as they are right now. You tell me that suddenly there is no technology. What is the basis for saying that? What's going on? What is the basis for telling me that technological services are not being provided from Euskaltel? In outsourcing a number of activities, such as maintenance, is that what you're building on? What about the rest of the people in that company? The company as such does not question it, it continues to work perfectly. So let's call things what they should be called. And this country's industrial policy is based precisely on that, on making certain technologies grow, on helping, collaborating, making different investments, today with one company and tomorrow with two, and then with three. That's the goal. But, of course, staying in a large company is not the government's goal. Helping in difficult times yes, and that's what they ask us one day yes and another too, but it seems that no longer today. I mean, when the company's in trouble, then what do we do, help or not? What are we left with? Because today he tells me yes, tomorrow he doesn't... Under what conditions? When you are in trouble we help, we make them profitable, and then we go to continue to help others. And when they're strategic, we start them, we help them grow, and then we start another. That is the goal of the Government and the industrial policy of a government that is valued and wants to develop the economy of its country. And that's what you're doing, and that's what you've done with this company. And please, it's a 100 percent private company. One hundred percent private. Another thing is that, I insist, the business model of this country that somehow wants to support the government is a transparent business model, where there is participation of workers, not only in the decisions that are made in the production process, where there is participation also in the profits that occur in the company, and where there is participation, why not, in the company's capital. Why? To encourage rooting, to encourage people's involvement. That is our goal, and for that purpose we have placed the leaders of Euskaltel at the moment so that all that bonus will remain in the company, so that it will help that company grow, and so that this involvement and root in Euskaldi will be given. That is the model we encourage, and according to that we act. Nothing more. But, I insist, one hundred percent private company, like most... no, almost one hundred percent of the companies in this country. And that's what we're trying to do: let this country grow on the best, the best, the largest, the largest, the most competitive, the most internationalized and the most technological companies in the world. That's what we've been saying one day yes and another too. Your model isn't that; I understand it, but I don't share it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the members of the Basque Socialists of the Society have been made to discuss the legality of the budget not to continue in 2013." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u119	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. A week ago, we received the report on the control of the account of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for the financial year 2013 carried out by the Basque Court of Public Accounts. This is the monitoring of the extension of the 2013 budget year that the Basque Government implemented by having to withdraw the lehendakari Urkullu the draft budget law that it had submitted for that year 2013, because it did not have the necessary support to be approved due to the amendments to the whole that we put forward some groups, including the Socialist Group. This review establishes, in the court's view on compliance with the law, that the initial payment appropriations from the extended budget include an amount of approximately EUR 107 million, in breach of the budgetary extension scheme regulated in Article 128(b) of the Consolidated Text of the existing legal provisions on budgetary arrangements. And that is why, Mr Councillor, we ask you what action or actions the Basque Government intends to take so that in the future an action such as that which has been questioned by the Court, regarding a budgetary extension, will not again be the subject of an opinion of non-compliance with the law by the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Corcuera, next to the 2013 budget reconnaissance work, I must tell you that 2014's budget was also very complicated. You know we had it at $1.132 million at the cost of the budget, knowing we had revenues, measured by 2012, the usual revenues were marked out, which came from the collection of taxes, and from the collection was $1142 million less. But we had fewer than 500 financial tickets. This stage made us 2013 very complicated. year (s). We've got to keep this in mind, too, in the year of 2012, when our raw internal product came down %2. Even in the year 2013, we were still in a very remarkable retreat, and despite the fall of 2% the year before, we fell to 1,7% a year. Then the management was in that context. What you're saying about the City Court of Investigation: he says in general that in the report the rule on economic affairs has been done justly. There are exceptions: the one is what you have spoken of, and the other is taken in opinion. For example, the last credits at the end of the year enter into extension, when they have sense, and have the nature of following those credits in their future years. And, for example, what has extension been made? There are several investments in the public school of our economic fabric: Children's work, second and first class school, and also in Education's professions. There are some extensions there. This is the interpretation of the People's Court, but these extensions were necessary, such as the aids which they had given to the Basque Minister were necessary. The services which he was obliged to provide for his professions were even prolonged, those which are provided in the employment of the society, and which are given to special businesses of re-enjoying.... Also the aids of Aquitania and Eukakia. I mean, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you He makes that interpretation, and we've remembered that interpretation of the People's Court Court as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u122	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u123	Thank you, President. I understand then, Counselor, that they are not going to do anything, because they consider the issue and the intentionality of this appropriation to be adjusted. And I'm sorry, if that's the interpretation. And I regret that I have not answered the question and that I have not been asked any action to be taken to avoid facts such as those that have caused such a breach of the legality of a budgetary extension. Because it is true, Counselor, that the allegations made by your department in that report make it an excuse that these extended appropriations accounted for 1% of the budget. They therefore disregard the law, because what is prohibited by the law is the provision itself, and the law does not care about the amount of the provision, it does care about the provision itself. If your advice, I understand, from the answer you have given me, is that yes, and it is of the same content as the allegations made, I understand that you should have activated measures to amend the law, in order not to have to make any interpretation of what the court has expressed in your report, which is why you have not proposed anything to us today. He further argues in that report – at least this is the case in that report – that there would have been no need to extend the 107 million that the court criticizes, because at the time they had to make credit retentions of close to EUR 600 million in order to meet the objective of stability (today he has commented on the analysis they made of GDP, the reduction, the decrease in income), and, therefore, that the rest of the credits that were questioned by the court, which corresponds to that heading, is the nature of which was not likely to end in the previous year. And you know, counselor, as well as I do, that when the Basque Court of Public Accounts maintains in the final audit report its opinion on the non-compliance with the legality of the claims extended in this case is because, having been aware of the allegations made by your department, it has not considered them satisfactory, and continues to think that you have failed to comply with the legal provisions on budgetary arrangements, and therefore does not comply with the legality of what has been done. And what worries me most, and I should worry you, is that you have not put forward any measures to correct that situation because you think it is rightful. And that's what doesn't fit in: his opinion on legality, with the Basque Court of Public Accounts' audit report for the 2013 extension.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Gashhousevary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Look, we had expenses around 2,500 at the end of 2013, and 9,800 million in the tickets. As you said, we did credit damage. So, what does the City Court say in his own opinion? On the one hand, that the regulation of economic economy in 2013, and that two, on the other hand, the general matter clearly reflects how economic action has been in all significant matters. That's what it's called. It is true what you have said, and by extension, that it interprets this interpretation, and that, as far as we know, we have an opinion on this interpretation. I have given you several examples to explain why this extension has been made. But anyway, Mrs. Corcuera, I'm sure he'll think about it just as it should be in the country, sure enough, baby, and we'll wait. We will also wait that there is no other extension than that of the 'Farbellat', at least not in the next days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u126	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, " concerning the bill of law of the Recbeka Ubera Aranz and the EH Collector of the Team for Education, Policy, and Culture." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u127	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. In the sports zone, to be honest, I'm sure you've got a lot of homework to do: he has challenges in his hands, and has not yet done so much work. It's a long way ahead of him, really. And among these domestic tasks, there is a law of pleading for sporting methods, which wander from 2012 to this Chamber. I just want to remember that in 2012, the parliamentor gave a promise to you that it was also in memory of the budgets of 2013 and 2014, and that in the 28th of March 2014, in the projecting of the Sorrow Teams, there was also an exchange in the Sports Committee. What was specifically accepted was the following: "The American law asks everybody to beg the bill for sports jobs in the year of the first quarter of 2015 to send it to this Chamber, X. For the legislation calendar, follow the one xedated. "Esse parliamentor asks the Red Munche to pay attention to the sports monitor so that the team doesn't get out of the legal frame." We are already in June 2015, and no such plan of legislation has been sent to this Chamber. So, over again, I'm sure it's just like, "You know, I think that's what's going on. And what we'd like to get to-day is if you'd like to hear if you wanted to hear about the Chamber doing sports jobs in order to transmit the bill. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u129	Mrs. Ubera. A month ago, I made clear what were the plans of education, politics, and Cultural in this legislature about the culture and the legal projects in the field of sports. I also mentioned the bill of law which will regulate the exercise of sports, but perhaps you didn't hear it or understand it correctly. So I will literally read you a few parts of the answer Mr. Barrio had given me: "Es nuestra intención remitir dichos Proyectos de ley a Consejo de Gobierno ejercicio." As for the bill of the law of sports, I said: "In this moment, the process of hearing and querying has finished, and, considering all the applicants, we are preparing a joint text so that we can send it to the government of as soon as possible and accept it." As you know, it is an indispensable step to accept the Government Council before sending the bill to the legislature. So, Mrs. Ubera, we haven't changed our plans, the bill continues its course, and we'll bring the new legal text as soon as we can to the legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u131	With your permission, I'll do it from the seat. For we do not know what your intentions are, because what we see is that you do not obey the orders which are made by law again and again. And the order was clear: was ordered on the first quarter of 2015. So you'll understand what it's all about, because we see that you're making sure that you're not sent here because we don't know whether you're going to send it or not, and that we've seen you've turned back on a proposition that you've accepted in the legislature. Your intentions, therefore, are always lost in words, general words, and the date is what we desire. Date. When are you gonna get it? Seeing that you have no longer obeyed the commandment given by the law, do we know what all the transfers are, and when the steps to be done? We need actions here, not words or intentions. And, to be honest, it's a fun affair that doesn't seem to be working in the same way and in the same parallel. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u133	Madam Ubera, I think it has been evident what our intentions are, and what we do, in the transferment of this law, and in other actions. And, as I said before, we'll try to get him back as soon as possible. In any case, it must be underlined that the legislation program is a flexible and open tool to adapt the changes to the needs of it. And you can also follow the manner in which the tramitation of each law is in point of point. So it's not just what we're saying here, but there are points where each project is. So the actions are there, and so are the ways of continuing. Orduan, the legislative calendar is therefore an open, flexible and transparent tool for monitoring government planning and policy action. For this reason, every six months a follow-up document is produced which contains possible changes and new developments. Beraz, hor dago. And anyone who knows very little about the legislative procedures, and the complications and setbacks that usually occur in the processing of the rules, knows perfectly well that it is virtually impossible to predict accurately the time required for the drafting and adoption of a law. The legislative timetable should therefore serve as a tool for information and guidance. And, of course, this Government is doing everything in its power to try to comply. He is now in this department of education, of politics, and of culture, in order to bring forward the transition to the law of sports, in order to bring him back to the legislature as soon as possible: as our prediction, the second semester of 2015.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interrogation, Carmelo Barroja, a member of the Basque Potula team, made to the chief physician of the Medical Department, in the summer months of which Eukadin reserves are to be maintained." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u135	jaunak: Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselors and counselors, good morning again. Well, it is not a big deal, I think, that Parliament also serves to make an analysis, through this parliamentary instrument, of the situation with regard to the donation, and also, on a straight line, to make an appeal for the collection of blood for the summer season. We know very well how we are in Euskadi. We know him well. We know, from Parliament's Health Committee, the good work of the Basque Centre for Transfusions and Tissues. We have visited it, and we also participate, as Parliament, in the annual blood collection campaigns, as it has to be. We are still awaiting an appearance of the head of the Basque Transfusion Centre in the Health Commission, which I suppose will take place in September, where we will see how the summer has gone, with a view to knowing how the campaign is going, with a view to some information that goes around. But I think it is good for you, Mr Darpón, to inform us about how you are dealing with blood donation in the summer, after some recent information, after finding that in recent years, in addition to the Basque country, and at the level of Spain too, the level of donations has dropped somewhat. And that is a fact that makes it clear who is responsible for associations, or experts, or who are also responsible for blood and blood derivative centers. And, as I said before, according to recent information regarding the blood donation needs for the summer months in Euskadi, it is evident – and I read textually some intercomilados that have come in the media – that "the alarms have jumped at the Basque Center for Transfusions and Human Fabrics (...), where the blood banks of the three territories have been centralized for years. Donations have declined over the past year, and reserves..." – that said the information – in some ways run the risk of being insufficient. It was also said that "the summer period has traditionally meant a decline in donations", but last year was especially intense, so the information was said. "In August, they dropped by 40%. Last year, 4,410 donated grants were accounted for during that month in Euskadi, when the monthly average is usually between 7,100 and 7,700. In total in June, July and August last year 17,797 donations were made in the Basque Country and 19,744 bags were supplied to hospitals, which means" – they also said this information – "that 2,000 reserve units had to be seized". According to those responsible, and we have seen it in different information through the media and we have also talked with some of them, blood donor associations, would be necessary, to be calm, about 1,300 more blood bags in these summer months. It is a figure that has come out, and we reflect it in this request for information. The same information shows that the reservations are currently 20 % below the usual level. Well, that is the situation that is described or that we have been able to know in the information referred to. In view of this situation, action must be taken, or it must be valued at least in view of the solution, or to encourage, where appropriate, the donation of blood, to appeal to the citizens who participate in this voluntary delivery also in the summer by the usual donors, and those who are not, to be made donors. Well, that's part of the culture. Not only are they going to be campaigns, logically, they are not only going to be timely appeals. It has to be a question of culture, it has to be a bigger question. But, well, let's see how we face precisely that risk of insufficient reserves. Let's see. That is why the Basque Government, which we understand to be responsible for the collection of blood in the Basque Autonomous Community, must be involved in trying to clear up insecurities regarding the stock of blood bags for ordinary and extraordinary use, if necessary. Let's hope not, but you always have to keep it in mind. Or the needs of autonomous communities, in cases of need, that we all know how it works and that it is a job, logically, health care, doctor, and solidarity also in any case, all that has to do with blood collection. In other information, I have already referred to some cover, some headline in some newspaper: "Euskadi needs blood: Reservations are 20% below normal. The Transfusion Center fears that the situation will worsen in the summer because at this time more bags of hematites are used than those given by citizens." He also said that "in recent years donations are falling between 3% and 4%"; even at the level of Spain there is talk of 7% less donations since 2010. In these keys and in this framework of action, and in the face of this news, we want to ask and we want to know from the Government with what criteria the Department of Health of the Basque Government addresses the collection and storage of blood during the summer months, in view of the information, in view of this announced withdrawal of reservations in previous years and the risk of insufficient stock echoing the information mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u136	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. Mr Barrio, in principle I would like to thank you for the question, because, at this time of year and in others, it is always important to talk about blood donation and to be able to encourage it. As you know, the donation of blood in Euskadi is an activity dependent on the Basque Center for Transfusion and Human Fabrics since the late 1980s, with which the donor associations of the three historical territories actively collaborate. It is important to repeat always that the entire donation is altruistic and unpaid, no substitution donation is allowed within the social and family circle of patients as a means of obtaining blood components on a regular basis. As you mentioned, I will give you a series of data to give us an accurate and true picture of the situation of hemoderivative donation and storage levels in Euskadi. The total number of blood donations in 2014 was 91,300, an average of 42 donations per 1,000 inhabitants per year. This year, up to 31 May, 38,007 donations had already been registered, which is 4% less than on the same date as the previous year, which seems to me to coincide with the figure you have given. But it is also important to note that the annual average of donations in the State is 37 donations per 1,000 inhabitants/year, 13.5 below ours at this time. According to the World Health Organization, the average donation rate in developed countries is about 38 donations per 1,000 inhabitants/year, which is also lower than ours. The utilization rate of hematite concentrate, the main component in determining a country's needs, is extremely variable within countries in our environment. For example, Denmark transfers twice as much of this component as the Netherlands, when both countries have top-level health services. The Basque Country is in a similar situation to that of Norway, and has lower utilization levels than Finland, the United States, Sweden, Austria or Germany and higher than Italy, Australia, the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands or Canada. Numerous initiatives are being implemented in all countries in recent years to ensure optimal use of hemoderivatives, which is leading to a very similar decrease in donation in all countries of the European environment. But, it must also be said that, thanks to new medical-surgical technologies, which are less invasive in many cases and with much improvement in life support, the clinical and analytical threshold to determine the need for transfusion is decreasing. In this sense the downfall of the demand in our community is like that which has occurred around us, and consequently that of production. Although the decrease in both demand and supply that affects our community is similar to that of patients in our environment, it is clear that we should not relax, as it could recur, mainly due to the growing aging of our population, which is the main factor for transfusion consumption. Growing aging leads to an increase in cancer, and also leads to an increase in orthopedic surgery, and both, their pathologies, are important consumers of hemoderivatives. Over the past ten years, the life expectancy of Basques and Basques has improved, and as transfusion activity slows and increases with age, the population likely to be transfused increases each year. But the more or less restrictive transfusion criteria that are now used have an impact on donation needs. Hematitis transfusion applications have declined over the past five years, from approximately 91,000 units to 84,000 units/year. The hospitals in which this decrease is most evident are those of Cruces and Donostia, although their activity is more complex. The reason of this discount is not that there are fewer patients to attend to, but that with the criteria for the transfusions now established, there must be fewer units, especially in the emergency services which are critical, or in the pursuits of speed. Thus, by setting an example, the emergency department of the University Hospital of Cruces has gone from transfusing 3 to 2.7 units of average per patient in those who have an indication of transfusion, or the hospital's own resuscitation has dropped from 5 to 3.7 units of average per patient, also in those who are indicated with a transfusion. On the other hand, the blood donor pool is stable and very regular: more than 85% of donations come from regular donors, and around 7,000 new donors are recruited each year. But there are a number of factors, as we have said, that can have a negative impact on the activity: the ageing of the donor population, which causes an increase in the difference between the number of donors excluded by age and new births, and also the current social and labour reorganisation, which has led to the loss of young donors in recent years. It should be noted that an important part of the donation collections are carried out in the work environments, and these environments are increasingly difficult to access for the Basque Centre for Transfusion of Hemoderivados and Human Fabrics. As far as donation campaigns are concerned, in all developed countries, although there is a solid and stable donation system like ours, there are regular crisis situations, which cause more or less acute shortages of blood components. The most delicate moments are usually the months of January and summer, coinciding with moments of high care activity (especially in January) and prolonged holiday problems. Also on vacation for donors, especially in summer. In addition, the behavior of holiday periods is changing. Until a few years ago it was limited to a few days at Christmas and in August, but today the social and family habits are different, and we are seeing the impact of the donation drop from June to well into September. Donation in July decreases on average by 15%, and in August by 30% to 40%. In order to face this situation, most attempts are not effective, or they are useless, and the collection has become unimpaired. Although this was so, there was no disturbing case of absence. Despite the centre's attempts to minimize these trends, it can be categorically stated that at the moment there have been no alarming deficiencies, and that in no case have there been any changes in the care activity, or especially in the surgical activity. And it's not a novelty this year, but it's been like this for the past two decades. And although it is true, as you have rightly recalled, that in recent weeks there has been an appeal and a special reminder of this circumstance, it is because, if later on, put more in July and in August, its effectiveness would have been much less. But our warehouses today are the right ones for this time of year, and they have normal levels to meet the function of summer. This does not mean that increasing the donation rate does not come especially well. We intend to start the month of July with a suitable situation to minimize the effects that the summer will undoubtedly produce on the donation collections. The measures we can take are also limited due to the expiry of the hematic components, but there is room for manoeuvre. What does not take away from remembering the importance of donation, and how scarce and important hemoderivatives are, and which are hardly replaceable by other products, is never much. That is why I would like to reiterate my gratitude for the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u138	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u139	Yes, thank you, President. And briefly, too. First of all, to thank the counselor for his explanations. Indeed, we have to be alert and we have to continue working on the keys in which the centre and donor associations have done so, which I believe has also been key that dynamism of our blood donor associations in Euskadi, precisely because they always have and break all the barriers and overcome all the rankings. Indeed, Euskadi has always been above. We have recently been overtaken by Extremadura and Castile and Lion in the collection index, but indeed there we are, as you have said, above average in relation to these issues, and that is where we have to look. It's campaigns, the standing appeal, but there's got to be something..., we have to keep doing something else. Apart from these campaigns of encouragement, it is necessary that culture, that culture that we have had and that the Basques know well, of the donation. Alava, for example, has been, has become the best area in the world in blood collection per inhabitant. In that sense, I think we have to keep working. Education is fundamental. When I spoke to leaders of associations, it remains also, not only in the area of health and appeal from the public health system, but in the educational field, indeed. You have said the causes of the drop in donations: the economic crisis, the social crisis in relation to the economic crisis, and the fact of that delay in relation to that issue, and the ageing of the population as well. So, the culture of the young person who when he is older wants to be a donor, I think that must also be installed in society. I mean, there's the keys. Euskadi needs 1,300 more blood donations for the summer months. We're going down in donations. There is no concern about our reserves or stock, but there has to be an impulse to donation, a culture of donation. To know that it is the health needs (not just solidarity, but needs) and the medical needs and needs of the population that may be at risk at any time. I think it's that sense we have to keep working around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u140	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u141	Well, I totally agree with you. I think it is very important to make a periodic reminder: anyone can need blood at a specific time, and blood only comes from the donation that people make, and it is an example of solidarity that we have always highlighted. I agree with you that we must thank all those who, through the three territorial blood donor associations, periodically improve our society through donation, which is a culture that we must try not to lose, and above all encourage at the youth level, which will allow them to continue to donate throughout their lives. And to reiterate that the Basque Center for Transfusion and Human Fabrics has enough reserves to face the summer months, and that today there is no risk of insufficiency in stock. Which does not mean that any donation is not welcome, and that we are also not exempt from at a certain time having an accident and needing to increase the stock level. But today it is the centre's own officials who claim that this is the real situation and are calm in the face of the coming months. The managers of the Centre say that's the real situation, and they're looking at it calmly for the next few months. There is no reason, today, either, to think that the surgical assistance activity can be modified for this reason this summer. And I would like to stress again that, although it is true that the annual average of donations has fallen, in the field of transplantation, from the donation of both tissues and hemoderivatives, it is good to measure long periods, and probably an annual period is not enough to see a trend. But the parameters on which we move in Euskadi are equivalent to those of the most developed countries. And again remember that in Euskadi today we have an average of 42 donations per 1,000 inhabitants/year, which, according to the average donation rate in developed countries, is somewhat higher. In Euskadi we have always been characterized by solidarity, the rate of both organ and blood donors has always been a high rate, which demonstrates the commitment of Basques and Basques to those who need it most. I would like to send a new call to the people: we need all our help. We've always been a company of Basques. I would like to remind the blood-collectors that their support is necessary all year long. I would also like to thank myself publicly, before the end of the work of the various associations, which have been in existence for years, once again. They are certainly a fundamental part of the blood donation rates we enjoy in Euskadi. I would therefore like to encourage them, too, to continue to carry out awareness-raising and support, and to thank them for their contribution. On the other hand, I wouldn't want to end my interference without thanking you for the job of professional members of Osa. After all, thanks to the work of a whole team, Euskade, many lives are saved during the year, and even professional members of the Oscars are indispensable to their blood-collectors, so thanks to them. And finally to launch a message of tranquility: our hemoderivative warehouses are the right ones, they maintain some levels within normality. There have been no alarming shortages or changes in care activity for decades. Hence, although we are calm, the most important thing is certainly not to lower the guard, and to continue constantly encouraging the donation of blood, thanking the people who donate, so that they can continue to be prepared to care for all those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u142	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, made to the Chief of Environmental and Regional Policy, about the subway of Bilbo." Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u143	Yeah, it's on. Good morning. Thank you, President. In May, his Deputy Transport Adviser acknowledged in a media outlet that the crisis continues to burden some projects. The Bilbao Metro Line 5 is undoubtedly one of them. Tell them, if not, to the neighbors of Galdakao, that last Thursday they went out on the street again under the slogan "Priority for Galdakao. Line 5 now." They are, of course, entitled to demand that they comply with what was an electoral commitment of the Basque Nationalist Party, now responsible for the Basque Government, which wanted to develop the 5 metro line. It was included in its program, which the PNV presented to citizens in 2012. This is specifically commitment 7, initiative 20, page 64. Of course that's what they said in 2012. In 2014 you yourself made it clear, both in the debate and in the budgetary procedure, as to a question I asked you in this plenary, which ruled out pushing line 5 within three years. According to his textual words, there was no planned investment for 2015, not even for 2016, nor for 2017 probably. You made it very clear, Counselor: you were not going to fulfil your electoral commitment. I'd say it was you to the point of being categorical. However, one of two, or in the run-up to 2016, should reconsider their non-compliances and decide to invest in the construction of the 5 metro line, or, failing that, should cease to confuse Galdakao's neighbours with the possibility of going to bid on construction work in 2016 or 2017. Your vice-counsel, although you made it so clear in the budget debate, in the same interview that I referred to earlier, to the question of whether work could be auctioned in 2016, says that it will have to be discussed with the parliament. And they ask him: "And in 2017?". He says the same thing: well, that we will have to talk about it with the parliament, he insists. So, what are we left with? Is that right? Maybe not? Balloons out? Do we definitely rule out the momentum of line 5 for the next three years? First of all, and in view of the insistence and demand of the neighbours, and in order for them to stop manifesting themselves in vain, I urge you and ask you whether it is part of the priority criteria of the Basque Government to undertake the construction of line 5 of the Bilbao metro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u145	Yes, good morning, ma'am, congressmen. With regard to the draft line 5 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway, I can tell you that we are working on the development of the project, and in this regard I will indicate the tasks we are carrying out. On 20 April 2015, the information study on line 5 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway, section Ariz-Galdakao centre, was finally approved. We are also currently developing the environmental treatment between Galdakao center and hospital, and we are also conducting an integral study of the induced mobility of the hospital itself. This will allow us to continue to work on the drafting of the constructive projects and the facilities of both sections, which is also another task we are currently undertaking. And, indeed, as you indicated and as the Vice-Adviser Mr Aiz also reflected in some interview, to undertake the construction infrastructure we will have to carry out the articulation of an interinstitutional agreement, as on other lines of metropolitan railway, in order to determine the financing of the works and the subsequent exploitation of this line.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u147	Yes, counselor, that these jobs were being done we already knew, and also, that that (also chance), more or less, coincided with the pre-electoral period, so perhaps it has made the neighbours of Galdakao believe or generate some expectation that the construction of the subway would be ahead of schedule. I'm asking you... It was clear to me in November when I asked him the question in plenary, but it is that the neighbours continue to manifest themselves and continue to call for it to be a priority. And that, despite your May announcement, they did last week. So, I insist – which has not been so categorical today – that I say no; that is that, despite these environmental studies, despite the construction project studies, there will be no investments for the metro, for the construction line 5, neither in 2016 nor 2017, nor in 2018, and for budgetary rigors. I would already like to be so condescending to the Basque Nationalist Party when it asks one day yes and another also to the Government of Spain for other investments in the Basque Country! If I can handle the budget situation, but...! And then also now a new element, the variable "No, you have to talk to the deputy." It is that, every time I remember the shams between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party on account of infrastructure policy, when one was in government and the other in opposition... Well, now that you're getting along so well, I hope you can speed up this investment on line 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u149	Yes, indeed, as we all know, and as I said in November in the budget submission for 2015, we have suffered the effects of the crisis, and that has been noted in investments. That's obvious, and you know it as well as I do. We continue to work, as I indicated in my first speech, on the previous work necessary to develop this line 5 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway, and all those work to which I have referred (the projects, the information study, the projects, the environmental assessments, etc.) will define the price or the exact amount of the project and the subsequent work. And also the articulation of the institutional agreement will tell us how far we will have to put resources from this government, this department, and the parliament. I would remind you that in other cases, such as line 3 for example, there is indeed shared funding, which has enabled us to give an impetus – because of this funding shared between the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry and the Basque Government – to give an impetus to that line and to commit ourselves already to the necessary credits, and to the perfectly clear timetable of how the works are going. With line 5 we are working in the same way, looking for commitments, credits, agreements to be able to make that schedule and planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "The question is, that Daniel Maecez Perez, the Member of the People of the People of the Environmental and Regional Policians, is to inquire about the change of the Arts of the Orders of the Lands." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Don't worry, we're all having lunch by 2:00. I'm here with two questions, Madam Chief. In the first place, how is the re-opening of the arts in the order of the Lands? And the second, how is the change of the formula of home-collar formation in the organizational arts? We must not forget that it was one of the ends of the organizational arts of the Lands to set up a land-field which would encourage a reasonable use of the Arbantage. The purpose that has not been achieved for us and is manifest. We think it is necessary to explain this context to come to this subject. So we must remember here, in February 2013, that in this part of the legislature, in the majority, in the Jeltzad Party and the EH Collector, we accepted the innovation of the arts in the Ordiments of the Land; and that we ought to consider that it was necessary to consider the disputes of economy, of the environment, of society, of the area, of the genus, of the culture, and of the landscape. How's that process? How is this reset or revision? For, not doing this restruction, and as it is said in the summer of the year past, you proposed to change the formula of the Home Office. Or rather, you didn't propose it, you imposed it. This change continued with the speculations of the soil, without considering the consequences of the following patterns, the severe consequences: thousands of vacant dwellings, thousands of citizens of eupscals in a state of indissoluble housing, and thousands of soils, which are very convenient for speculation. During the summer of the year you wanted to make a living, you continue to apply the coefficient of the sponge, by allowing the town councils to increase 50 percent to the objectives of their housing duties. In the midst of social life, at least, you can make a reality quite remote from the necessity that really exists in society. And, it seems, not only from the wants which lie in the housing department, but from the reality which lies in the market-place, this formula seems to be very remote. And why do I say that? Well, for what we read on an article in the press recently. "Los Destructors iniciaron solo 79 vivendidas en 2014 Álava, 5791 menos que hace ocho años." Not only objective needs, but it seems that the market does not require such a form of exportation. So, how's the restoration of the formula of the housing deposit?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u152	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u153	Yeah. From the data you have mentioned, it cannot be inferred that Vitoria-Gasei, with 2800,000 inhabitants of the city, is a yearly need for the housing of a man like the city, and that the house of 79th of 2014 is not eight-year-old, nor has the housing eight-year-old. Only the given numbers reflect the reality of the construction activity which has been considerably reduced in recent years, as we all know. They do not at all reflect on the necessity of life, for its analysis is much more complex, and for eight years it is studied deeply in the document of the experience, that is to say, in what it seeks to adapt itself to the present state of life's experience. In this section, I must remark that it has been a matter of re-establishment of housing, or of inheritance built in a decade, to give it a real use. They serve, moreover, to fulfill the present wants of life, without having to perform any construction. In fact, this development of the housing, among other things, the government considers it necessary to adapt as soon as possible to the criteria of the experience. Moreover, the changes of the demography, the growth of the average size of the family, the development of the use of life, and the artificialization of the soil, must make changes about this area. Changes take place in the view of the country's downability. And so in this document the oriental capacity of 930,000 units and 1860,000 housing was planned, since the criteria now established imposes the power of accepting 287,000 units. On the other hand, I need to tell you that the reference to the guidelines of the land from which we will perform a part of the process through an integral process is running and that you will soon be informed that the revision of the environment is running.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u155	The housing arrangement has been considerably diminished, but in contrast, you propose a new form of life, objective needs, objective needs, which proposes multiplication. Why? Why do you do that? And what interests me more particularly at this moment, is the change you make at this moment? Or will you wait for DOT's general examination, as well as the intervention of the people, and know what real needs are? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u156	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u157	Two other key issues that I would like to leave on the table: territorialization of residential capacity is carried out through municipal planning, with priority being given to urban land, already urbanized or already urbanizable land. In short, the fundamental idea underlying this change is to finish filling the urban floor. And, following the example of Vitoria-Gasteiz that you yourself have placed in this rostrum, the modification implies a maximum capacity of 26,183 dwellings in a municipality that already has 28,838 pending execution, classified. Therefore, we understand that quantification is understood to be low-adjusted, adjusted to current needs, and makes it unnecessary to propose further developments. The proposed change is therefore perfectly adjusted in line with sustainability and not to further artificialise territory. I also have to say that the planning activity of the territory of this Government and of this territory has made the construction activity and boom of the developmental period have had a much smaller impact than in the rest of the Spanish State. And you only have to go to statistics and numbers to be able to realize that. I insist: in any case, we are beginning the revision of the guidelines, and I will bring them to this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-26.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Your time is up. Then I'll tell you about Lesbian, Gay and Transexal's Liberation Day. The entire Union of the Basque Union has accepted an institutional statement for Gay, Lesbian, Transexal, Bisexal, and Bisexal. It calls all public institutions and the people of euscals to account for their attachment to equality, and to make a provocative work in the struggle against homo-strosphobic and the transphobic struggle against any discinction in our society. As a sign of this commitment, the Easter sign will be placed in the front of the Basque parliament building for the weekend. As the institutional expression mentioned is on the website of the Basque legislature, anyone who wants to read it can read it. Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-two.
