ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, Luke Uribe House House of Houses, the lawmakers of the United States of the United States, made to the head of Economics and Sessions, about Tourism." Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. I'm here to question the chief department of Economic development and competition, and the question will be about the sector of turism. The question is brief, but I think it will be very interesting if the chief physician will give us an answer...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u1	Quiet, please. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: ...tell us all about the details and data he'll give us. Three weeks ago, ma'am, you commented on a press conference on Eukadin's development from 2008 to 2014. year after year, and you said that this sector of turism has been a sector that has been consolidated in the Eukitai economy. My question is: What is this assertion based on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. In reply, Mrs. Tapia's got a word that's a New Year's Representative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Mr. Uribe-General, that's right, the Tourism Sector in Euskata is in good shape, and the Eusk0 will continue to push it carefully, based on the Stratical Plant of 2020. Euscadian tourism is a rising sector, even if it's in crisis. In the past years, the sector is stabilizing, and it's a big rate that makes raw internal product, it's growing. And not only that, but the number of workers goes up. On the other hand, the data we've had in 2014 has been historical, as we said, the best they ever were. He commented that even in the last five years, in a very important crisis, where our main market, i.e. the state tourism sector, has been heavily punished, the results that the sector has achieved have been excellent. The sector has been able to show Euskadi as a special, attractive tourist destination; offer quality services, and get a good positioning of our brand, of the brand Basque Country, a brand new but that is positioning very well in the world. Tourism GDP has increased in recent years from 5.3% to 5.8, and has contributed €3.8 billion to the Basque economy in recent years. But employment has also grown in tourist establishments; it has grown by 3.29% in each and every territory. That is, there is no territory on which it has descended. We have surpassed the visitors' record in 2014. They have come to visit us 2.5 million tourists. But we do not only look at the percentage of tickets, we also consider other data, such as the average spending per tourist, the tourist balance (i.e. what we spend on Basques and Basques when we go out and what foreigners spend when they visit us), the rate of overnight stays, and what is observed is that, of course, we are having great data, and we also adapt to the current needs by offering quality services. It is good that more tourists arrive in Euskadi, because Euskadi is still a young, emerging destination, and has room for growth. But the most important thing is what the people who work in this sector and the people who visit us contribute to the economy of the country, so they spend on hospitality, on trade, on gastronomy, on cultural products, on transport, and, ultimately, they contribute to the wealth of this country. And at this point I would like to highlight a change in trend over the past five years: the growth of 30.3% of foreign visitors in Euskadi. The state is also growing, but, of course, foreign tourists are growing much more, to a greater extent. And I also give it special relevance, because they are the ones who contribute the most to the generation of wealth, they are the ones who spend the most here in Euskadi. And they contribute to that difference between what we spend and what they spend going down, and it's narrowed in these years by five percentage points. A very relevant fact for our economy. We're also monitoring the data on the Euskadi and the Eucharistic tourism industry. We're improving the data, management and track. And the quality we have noticed, we see that it's going up. It must be said that nine of the ten coming visitors would recommend visiting friends or other people, and that it is an excellent degree of happiness. That's why you're going to go on that way, and we'll be back in the years of our management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Xabier Isasi Balanzarka, a member of the Combats, of the President, of the supposed irregularities of the Arkak at SA 2012-2014. " Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. For the past two weeks, we have heard of the irregularity of the Arkbanks through the media. From this financial institution, Michael Cabies had been rewarded with unjust payments, and consequently justice has already invested three persons. Considering that the organs of the Arkban and its direction are composed of institutions, political, unions, and social entities, and that your party (EAJk) has had a great relation to the President before the Ark, in order to designate him as a Dictate; What is the opinion of the President, though he appear to be more real and more real, in these irregularitys, given in the Arkbanks?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u6	Thank you, Mr. Matute. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Matut, for starters, I'd like to put the subject right. On November 20, 20, 20, Popular Party won general elections in the state in full majority. Mariano Rajoy was appointed president, and brought with him a change of Autonomy from the Spanish Government. And to this end they appointed Charles Urquijo instead of Mr. Michael Cabieces. At that very moment the Social Party and Popular Party signed a pact in the Eukadin, and extended the proposal in the February of 2012. To say this, I must plainly say that I had no share in the decision. I reiterate that I had no participation in the decision adopted in February 2012, at the time of the removal of the Spanish government delegate in the Basque Country. Moreover, I do not understand that political leaders with the capacity to seek a solution in the public and institutional spheres have to resort to a private entity to do so. I think it's a mistake. What should be stressed today is that Kutxabank's internal control has worked. The entity itself has referred the case to the supervisory authorities, and this issue is being tried. As a lehendakari, I will do everything possible to safeguard the reputation of Kutxabank, a model of professional management and solvency vital to the Basque economy, and example of commitment to social work. Kutxabank, therefore, deserves my respect, all our respect, prudence and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u9	Mr. Lehendakari, you said internal control has worked. It has worked in a different way, as one representative of the People's Party would say, because it has been a long time before this internal control has detected an irregularity that seems to be flagrant and that in other areas and in other savings boxes, but with the same casuistry, some judge has described it as unspeakable. Today we could hear it in the media. Throughout all this time we have heard about an unwritten law, a pact or a reason for statehood. That is one of the arguments that seems to have been made to justify the irregularity that occurred in Kutxabank. What reason of state? What unwritten law? Is it Mario Fernández himself who determines that there is an unwritten law, or does someone tell him that there is an unwritten law that has to enable him to do things like those he has done in the Mikel Cabieces environment? Who participates in that unwritten law? Who agrees that this unwritten law has to be valid? And, in any case, what reason of state? What is the reason of the State that goes beyond others that would be more evident, such as that of respect for the Spanish Constitution itself in relation to the right to housing, thus avoiding evictions, also by Kutxabank. It seems that these reasons of State do not work. And we've also heard fragile alibis. Fragile alibis that obviate an unquestionable reality: that this Government, the Government of the Spanish State, that governments that in one way or another have had to legislate on violence or terrorism already have publicly and notoriously parts and policies and measures aimed at protecting the integrity of those who are threatened, and even, whether through labour exchanges or other issues, to provide them with a more laudable future. And yet, a hidden subterfuge, a subterfuge that has also been made with the money of everyone, has had to be used. And we have also heard that Kutxabank is being questioned, and it is pointed out that those who denounce what has happened – and we are not the only ones, there are also different media that do so – we seriously risk the stability of Kutxabank, which we almost aim to destabilize Kutxabank. Who destabilizes Kutxabank? Who makes bad use, who makes bad use of their funds, or who wants all the light, all the stenographers on an irregular attitude? And that is why we do not understand that a committee of inquiry is not approved in this Parliament, because, if nobody from the political power has anything to do with it, it would be good if at least this Parliament could determine who determines what things have to do with the reason of the state, what things have to do with unwritten laws. But, unfortunately, this reality is not a reality that only happens in Kutxabank. It is that, unfortunately, in this society, in the Basque, we already know what the rotating doors are. And there are inspections, there are reports from the Labour Inspectorate (not EH Bildu) that determine that in other cases (e.g., Ibarzaharra) there have already been two people who have received high salaries without going to their job, in one case, not a single day, without sending even a single report. That's the reality. You tell us that you had no knowledge, but at the same time we see how a Senator of the Basque Nationalist Party, in this case Mr Iñaki Anasagasti, points out, even dare to give a concrete name of who initiates this entire chain of petition for favors that are denied to you or of those that are deprived of the vast majority of citizenship, but that seem to access others. And yet we also see how the new president rises the salary of 800,000 euros also without control.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Matute. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Matute, you ask me what my opinion is about the alleged irregularities, and use your turn of intervention to mix here a whole series of value judgments that you express in relation not to what I have said, but to what other people have said or what is supposed to have been other actions. Look, in principle I remind you of the context in which this happens, which I think is very important, having also... And I do not justify any of the decisions taken, because, I insist, I have not been involved in any of them, and it is not for me to assess what those directly responsible themselves have taken as a decision. There have also been cases in which a former delegate of the Spanish Government in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has been killed. And it seems to me that it is important to contextualize also the circumstances that were taking place in the time when this fact takes place. You're talking about rotating doors. I have also explained to him what I am beginning to understand as a mistake, in what is the origin, by political representations that might have had, in the field of the institutional public, other possibilities. If that's what you're referring to with the rotating doors, can you explain to me if there are rotating doors in the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation? Good. I'm sure he'll treat me with prudence, with care and respect, as a result of the already open legal procedures. This is what prudence and care require, to preserve the good name of the Arkbanks, and to preserve the innocence of the guilty. The chest of drawers has been constantly acting in autonomy, and has made decisions which were the best for the organization. He's the one who's in control of the trunk to clear everything up. The alleged irregularity – I insist – has been detected and communicated by the entity itself. It is being judged, and I would like to stress today that, apart from this issue, the internal audit and the institution's own initiative has been the best endorsement of Kutxabank's good management, seriousness and professionalism. I think this is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third theme in the theme list: "To ask the question, "About the pretty things that would have to be started after the Elegus and the Society Department of Society, the members of the United States are members of the United States of the United States of the United States." Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u13	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, on behalf of my group, I would like to ask you what you will do, at the highest level responsible for this government, to correct the more than poor management developed by the previous Employment and Social Policy Advisor, Juan Mari Aburto, in an area so important to our society. But first I can't help but refer to the circumstances that have sprung up the appointment of his replacement, Ángel Toña, at the head of the department. It is not for me, and I will not do so, to prosecute Mr Toña's work as a competition administrator in the case that has led him to be disqualified, but this fact directly challenges you as a lehendakari. Not you, not the Ethics Commission. However, as on so many other occasions when it comes to committed matters, you and your Government have preferred to outsource responsibilities, clear the ball and let it be third parties that get you out of trouble. And it is up to you, Lehendakari, in the first person, to assess whether or not Mr Aburto's replacement meets the exemplarity and transparency demands that have been imposed, self-imposed your Government. And I would urge you to do so here, in this House, without delay, because there can be no doubt as to who is responsible for managing such important matters as employment, housing and social policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Pastor, I think you have reason to be a little more cautious before calling the management of this government and the previous councillor as deficient. Look, let's talk about employment. Net employment has been created for the first time in Euskadi since the onset of the crisis in 2008. The trend has been changed. The problem has not been solved, but we are helping to mitigate it. Let's talk about social dialogue. The table is in progress and has already taken its first decisions, and it has been an achievement of the previous councillor and it is a challenge for the new councillor, Mr Ángel Toña Guenaga. Lanbide. He claims that this Government has been unable to direct its course. It admits, Mr Pastor, that the course was turned from the previous legislature, but it is clear, I think, that it has improved its management. Let's talk about GIR or ESA, which also justifies in your question, or conciliation. There is an undeniable reality: this government has prioritized the Basque system of social protection, to which we allocate two out of every three euros. Let's talk about housing. The proposed law is being discussed, to be agreed and adopted, and is also being discussed in relation to this Government by its group, with ongoing dialogue. Look, the only instruction – I said all this – I have given to the advisor, Ángel Toña Guenaga, is to fulfill our program, as well as the commitments and agreements signed by this government. I maintain the reasons that led me to propose this responsibility: confidence in your preparation, capacity and commitment. It must also comply with the Code of Ethics, and, as you know, Article 16.6 obliges it to keep secret information sent to the commission until its final decisions are made public. And my public commitment, and also that of the Councillor, is to comply with the resolution of the Ethics Committee, but I think it is enough to tell you that Mr Ángel Toña Guenaga is here today as a Councillor of the Basque Government appointed by me, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u17	Yes, as you say, Mr Lehendakari, indeed, the councillor is here. I do not understand then why you send it to the Ethics Committee! Because the Ethics Committee understands that it will not even judge Mr Toña's behaviour before he is a counselor. The ethical committee is supposed to prosecute issues in its government action, which it has not yet done, and is therefore not in a position to prosecute. But it is the lehendakari who forced himself and his Government into that Code of Ethics, which sold as the no more of exemplaryness, and it is you who have to decide, and announce it here publicly, if, in the light of this circumstance, and applying the principles and commitments assumed in that Code, Mr Toña may be or continue to be a member of this Government. So don't hide in other instances to justify decisions that seem to have already been made, and do so as soon as possible, so that you and the new advisor, if they are, can devote themselves as soon as possible to managing with determination and energy the matters that fall within your competence: employment, housing and social policies. Issues such as the fight against unemployment, which affects more than 170,000 Basques and Basques, especially young people and those over the age of 45. Like social dialogue with social actors, which is simply raised. How to guarantee decent housing to those who cannot afford it. How to provide families with support measures and conciliation aid that they were committed to paying and have not been paid. Like straightening Lanbide's course (it's true, straightening, because it got started and there were deficiencies that you, by the way, quite bloodyly wanted to put into evidence and that are still unresolved two years later). How can we improve the management of the GIR so that its aid reaches those who really need it and not give a word to campaigns of contempt like those that Mr Maroto frequently agitates. In order to deal, in the end, with all the issues that the previous councillor did not resolve and that he has left on his chin. And precisely because the extensive and urgent work is quick and urgent to resolve it, I would like to ask you here and now to tell us whether you consider that in the case of the appointed Councillor for Employment and Social Policy the requirements of exemplaryness and transparency set out in the Code of Ethics have been met. And don't cheat on the loner, Mr. Urkullu. What do you want the members of the Ethics Committee to answer, who, by the way, are of a government majority? You respond, and you begin to deal actively and decisively with employment, housing and social policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u19	Mr. Pastor, I understand that you are confused and confused when you have to come today, taking advantage of the question of what political instructions I have given to the new councillor to correct the more than poor management developed by the previous councillor, and to mix this with the situation of Mr. Ángel Toña. Look, I told you earlier in my first speech – let me, Mr. Pastor – the only instruction I have given to the counselor is to fulfill our program. Answer your question. And, I say, I maintain the reasons that came to me to propose this responsibility: confidence in your preparation, capacity and commitment. Do not confuse citizenship because you are confused with the composition of the Ethics Code Commission. You know it's made up of two and two people, and the secretary doesn't vote. Do not try to confuse it, therefore, with the fact that it responds for the most part to the Basque Government's guideline. Mr Pastor, you and your group have approved the Employment and Economic Reactivation Plan until 2016; you have participated in your monitoring and control, and given your degree of compliance. They have approved the 2014 budget and also the 2015 budget, both with a clear social orientation. They have participated in the consensus reached on the social services portfolio. They welcomed the Social Dialogue Bureau. You participate in all these decisions, you demand that they be recognized for it, and I do so without any problem. However, it is not credible for them to participate and at the same time speak of poor management. One thing, or the other. And I repeat: Mr Ángel Toña Guenaga is here today as a counselor. I think it's proof enough of what my commitment is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the U.S.C.C.C.C.S.C.C.S.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.I. Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning. Lehendakari, on January 22, you went to Madrid for breakfast, and there you told your plan, your territorial model, or that plan you have for the future of the Basque Country. And, look, it draws our attention to you using that breakfast in Madrid to tell us what you refuse to discuss here. You have moved there that territorial model, that plan you have for the future of Basque, as if it were a priority for the Basques, in that you always confuse your interests with the interests of the Basques, as if the main concern in the Basque Country was what is going to happen in the future with our nationality, which is what you are trying to move. That is why I want to transfer you, Mr Lehendakari, to this House, and what we want to ask you, is why you resist discussing in this Parliament, in which the will of the Basques is represented, your proposals for the future for the Basque Country. Why does he refuse to discuss here what has no problem in moving to Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Quiroga, if you do not have the conference that I offered in Madrid, I have no problem in making it easier for you to fully understand what my speech was. Yes, yes! Since you are teaching me this, I would therefore ask you for rigour in your assessments of the joint context and content of the conference itself. In any case, I have said the same thing in Madrid as I have in Euskadi. Same thing. The same is explicitly reflected in the electoral programme, inspired by "Ados" and "Euskadi European nation", Mrs Quiroga, the government programme and what I have also said since the beginning in the same debate of investiture of lehendakari. These are three very simple and easy-to-understand proposals. I have proposed a method of work: dialogue, negotiation, agreement and ratification. I have proposed a meeting space: the presentation of self-government, in which all political traditions we could agree on the basic contents of the future. And I have proposed a shared goal: to reach an agreement/agreement, which will allow us to advance in self-government and achieve a new political status for Euskadi. And I have done so by explaining, both here and anywhere else, what I have been defending in order to the content of "Ados", I insist, the electoral program based on and inspired by "Euskadi European nation", and the government program. Look, I can assure you that, as lehendakari, and the Basque Government, we are going to make every effort and effort to take advantage of this new time to reach this agreement/agreement, which I believe is fundamental to grow as a country and advance the future well-being of Basque society. This is the fundamentals of my intervention: agreement, pact. Internal agreement in Euskadi; pact in the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u25	Lehendakari, we have asked you to have that debate in this House, but you resist that. Because I think the Basques deserve to know what all those words mean, all those concepts that I read in that speech that you uttered at that breakfast. Yes, I read it to myself. And, look, beyond you refusing to discuss this here with transparency, with courage, what I draw the attention of your speech is that the priorities you set in that speech have nothing to do with the priorities of the Basques. The priorities of the Basques are employment, the economic future, social welfare, security in stability. And, look, you have spoken to them there, as if they were our priorities, of a new territorial model, of the communion of the peoples of the continent, and of a new political concert. Do you think the Basques are more concerned about the communion of the peoples of the continent, or about arriving at the end of the month? For their proposal for a plurinational state, or for having a stable job, mainly young people? For their plan to reintegrate prisoners, or for stability in security? Is your new political concert, or the scandal we are subjected to every day by the harmful management with income guarantee income, by how these aids are being managed, by seeing how you refuse to face a reality, which is that of fraud in social aid? For your proposal to take us to self-determination, or for making us commulgate with mill wheels, however much they try here to stage those pats, those pictures with a counselor who has received a sentence for not complying with the law, lehendakari? That is the reality you face, that is the reality that worries the Basques, lehendakari. And, beyond that you want to drain the lump, beyond that you want to avoid facing reality, what I ask you is to use all the self-government that we have, all the capacity that the Basques have, to face the real problems of the Basques (employment, well-being, the future), and not their party priorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u27	Chief of Parliament. Look, Mrs Quiroga, don't worry, I'm used to it, and I'll stay used to it until the elections, I don't know whether municipal, outlaws or generals, are mixed up in full-control sessions all the issues that you want to mix without addressing the real question of the question raised or the question raised. Look, he says he's read it. I believe that it must be read again, sincerely: economic, political, social, at international level, context in the State, context in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country; economic revival and employment generation as a first priority; peace and coexistence, and new political status. What is new in this approach? The offer I've made is easy to understand. And, although you believe that it is my priority over other needs that also mean a priority for this government, such as economic recovery and job creation, it bothers you that we can even talk in agreement. And I propose to him an internal agreement within Basque society, through political representation, in this Parliament, and a pact with the State that implies the recognition and respect of national political reality. And this is what bothers you, Mrs. Quiroga. Agreement, pact, means that it is up to us to articulate a draft consensus that, once ratified by Basque society, is respected. This is what bothers him, which can be freely respected by Basque society. And I just stress that it's possible and that it's in our hands. If we want to, of course. And all I'm asking is that we don't give up the deal in advance. Look, reality has changed, and this is the moment of politics, of political solutions. And we have the opportunity to agree and agree, and this is precisely the approach that we are taking for Euskadi from the basis of this fundamental Basque Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team has made for the president a decision about removing EIB's principal director from office." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u29	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Counselors. Mr Lehendakari, the question is simple and very specific. I'm asking you about the CEO of EITB. I'm asking you if you're going to propose your cessation. I ask you if you maintain your confidence in the Director General of EITB, Mrs Iturbe. I must remind you that a week ago this House made a very clear statement and called for the cessation of the Director General of EITB. This fact, therefore, is already a fact, it has already occurred, it is already a reality. This Parliament has already spoken. Basque society, therefore, through this Parliament, has already made it clear that it wants it to be removed, that it does not follow the Director-General of EITB. The truth is that each of the political groups represented here gave their reasons for requesting their cessation, but that cessation was requested. His dismissal was clearly called for. I therefore ask you whether you are going to comply with this Parliament's request, whether you are going to propose your cessation, whether you are going to respect this Parliament. We explain, as we have been doing for several months, what our reasons are. There is an absolutely fundamental one, and it is that EITB is today at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party and at the service of the Basque Government. EITB is at the service of the nationalist postulates and in favor of what the Basque Nationalist Party usually defends, and we consider this unacceptable. But, I say, each political group explained what the reasons are. These are ours. But the important thing is that this House has already spoken, it has already spoken, it has already done that exercise of giving its opinion and verdict, and what was asked here is that this Director General of EITB be dismissed, because she is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party, because she is at the service of her Government. The question is therefore clear: whether you are going to respect this Parliament, whether you are going to propose its cessation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I do not reject this Parliament's statement. I never do. However, I must also understand and address the reasons for the adoption of the agreements. And you mentioned last week's agreement, yes, but you know well that last week a decision was taken adding votes with some reasons and their opposites. With a few reasons and your opposites, Mr. Maneiro. You know it perfectly well. The appointment of the Director-General shall be by the absolute majority of Parliament on a proposal from the Government. Different political parties may, for different and conflicting reasons, criticize the professional work of the current leadership. And, look, I admit it, even though I would already like it to be a public television radio as procile to the Basque Nationalist Party as you say it is. However, it is up to the Government to be responsible, to ensure the stability and continuity of the professional management of the public media. That is the responsibility of the Government, beyond what may be supposed to be information lines. With regard to labour disputes, the general management has faithfully complied with the decision of the board of directors to regularize an abnormal situation by means of a public call for employment approved by two thirds of the board of directors. And this same advice is the one that can revoke the agreement, and if the management does not do so it is obliged to apply the agreed. Look, I think the EITB management has demonstrated management capacity. The results support this. It has had fewer resources and managed to maintain quality and audience levels. You will be able to criticize your information programming, but you will have to acknowledge that it has the support of society, that it has been in an informative leadership position for the past two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u33	How sad, Mr. lehendakari, that we had to listen to what you just said. You would like to have an EITB that was more at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party than it already is. How sad! Well, not us. We want to have a plural ITBE, which reports well, which respects the basic principles that the media must comply with. That's what we'd like to have. But what we have is an EITB at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. This is the reality. And what you have to do is attend to this Parliament, because this Parliament has already spoken, and Basque society is represented in this Parliament. It does not matter what different reasons encourage the parliamentary groups to request their resignation. There may indeed be different reasons in some of the points. In other cases, these are similar reasons. But the important thing is that there is a majority in this Parliament who has asked for your dismissal. The important thing, therefore, is not the reasons that each group has; the point is that this Parliament has already spoken, and therefore the Director-General of EITB has to resign, because she no longer has the precise and necessary support to remain in office. This is the reality. Therefore, your situation, in our view, is absolutely unsustainable. It does not have the support of this Parliament. Only the Basque Nationalist Party supports him. And why does the Basque Nationalist Party support you? Because he's obviously at your service. You have to propose your dismissal here. You must cease or propose the termination of the Director General of EITB. This is what we continue to demand today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Maneiro, how sad is it that I have to make that appeal? Well, in the face of so many accusations of EITB's informational bias, I am proclivating the Basque Nationalist Party, let me also exonerate myself by saying that I would like to be, frankly, more proclivating to the Basque Nationalist Party. But I am lehendakari, and I am aware of the responsibility of the entity's management and that it also applies to its information line as objectively as possible, however much of the information is critical with the Government, as it must obviously be. As they obviously have to be. However, I insist that the leadership of EITB is criticized for an argument and its opposite. Its reasons are precisely the information line; the reasons for last week's request for a cessation were those for the application of an employment regulation file. Are these the same reasons for you and EH Bildu, or for the Socialist Party of Euskadi or for the People's Party? Are they the same reasons? I believe that, as a lehendakari, I have to pay attention to the reasons for voting between different for conflicting reasons. The Director-General has always given all the explanations that have been demanded of her in this Parliament, and nothing more than the culmination of the public call for employment, and known the court ruling, requested to appear before the Parliamentary Monitoring Committee of EITB. And this same Parliament called the committee on 23 February to receive a detailed explanation. What is paradoxical, Mr Maneiro, is to adopt such a radical decision on 5 February without even having heard the Director-General's explanations. I believe that, by appealing to the obligation of the lehendakari, also the obligation of parliamentarians is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Appeal, the members of the House of Xabier Isasi Balanzaria, a member of the meeting with the President, Arba, Bizia, and Gipuzian, representing the government of Spain." Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u37	The President of the legislature, the President, the Chief of the Department, the Member of Parliament, good day. The article of Autonomy, in the 33rd State of the State of Spain, informs the President of the common delegation of the Spanish State in Aban, Usca, and Gipuzia. It belongs to the President to know, to obey, and to execute the laws approved by the Gastian Laws. It's up to you, Mr. President. The question is, that a competitor has been created by the President in the name of Gaste, who intends to display as much power as the President: representing the government of Madrid. The Kingdom of Spain has, it seems, appointed its representative to co-operate in the administration of Aranaba, Biscarian, and Gipulia; for the conduct of the representative of the Spanish Government is, as it seems, thrown into the hands and duties of the President. The Parliament consented to demand in the full council of December 19, 2013, that the office of the representative of the Spanish Government should be abolished. We used to say: One: The legislative rejects the acts of the Government with firmness, because it reduces the fundamental rights and liberties of the people. And two: The parliament demands that the figure of the representative of the Spanish Government should disappear, and the jurisdictions which it contains. What did the president and I did to fill up the legal decision? The representative of the Spanish Government remains, it is evident, after a year's proposal, like that of the legislature, the representative of the Spanish Government remains the same. Monsieur Charles Vridoviels, that is to say, Mr. President, who has worn out your jurisdictions and despised your duties, and frequently promises more than you do in these countries of your rival and Basque. It should not be so, because there is no jurisdiction left to command over the President, but no one does anything to complete the dominion of the Don Quixote. The Representative of the present Kingdom of Spain knows better than in Araban, Gipulia, and Biscaia, how far the jurisdiction of his office reaches, and that nothing can be done. The law of 6/1997 April 14 regulated the functions and functions of the Spanish Government in Aran, Biscay and Gipu, even in Navarre Time. Five are the functions of the Spanish Government representative areas. It follows, therefore, that the representative of the Spanish Government in general is co-ordination of the administrative parts of the State of those countries. But, above what was forged, Monsieur Charles Urkax has found his way to the path to do his tricks and his mischiefs. Because it can't be done directly, it's done through the courts. Thus he uses the mediators of the state in a malicious and improper manner, and the resources of the State, the lawyer of the State, and the other members of the State, to prosecute and charge other people. The representative of the Spanish Government has urged about 500 files in the courts of the courts of affairs of Araba, Biscay, and Gipuzia. Besides, we'd like to know how many reports and research he's asked for from the Spanish police and the civil guards, probably hundreds of them. We know not how far the dominion of the Don Quixote extends, but we know what the obsessions of the Don Quixote are: flags, banners, prisoners of euscal, scholarships, euscal festivals, and eucasures. It is the same with the townships as against the aldudias, especially against the Gipulia, or against the institutions or the townships, or against the townships. Why do you suspect all these attacks? We'll say again: Beyond the laws and regulations, the problem is that the representative of the Spanish Government orders over the funk and the president. Yes, because Mr. Urk Quixote is constantly trying to regulate and transform the rights to the President and M. It is only thus that we can understand the initiative of the representative of the government of Charles Uuko of Spain against the townships and the institutions of the people. We have mentioned it before: One of the Don Quixote's obsessions is language. he wants to impose on the Spanish at all costs, and, by the way, to abandon it to the eucalyptus. It is strange that the evil use of the legislation of the Don Quixote, when it is convenient, uses laws made by this Gastine law. The reference to the principle of the policy of promoting the use of the Eucharian, Biscay, and Gipuzian peoples, in case of the Normaizing Law of the Use of Euskar. As to the authority of the people, it is by this law that every citizen has a right to be in the official language which he pleases with the administration of the people. Thus it condemns the duty of the people to be assured that this right is performed without limitation or hindrance. But in the reign of the poor Don Quixote, in several townships (I mean, the rich, the Aegiola, the Alzaga, the Sound, the Berga, Berga, Beizma, the knee, the Castle Elgeta, the Head drawer, Oiarti, Ognati, the Ambracia, the Usurbetz, the President of the Spanish Government) is gathering, and making difficulties in order to perform the normalization of the use of the cussssis, until the ordinary use of the cais is endangered. The same may be said of the operation that this officer of the King of Spain started against the Gipulia Fundal Forum. Collecting the Basque Country again demands that the representative of the Spanish Government should disappear, as the Gastian parliament has long since demanded. Mr. President, defend your rights and your duties, do not let the Government of Madrid attack and reduce the rights of the President, and do not let a simple government representative use its legalities and regulations in a malicious manner against its local institutions, against its citizens. You have the protection of this parliament, Mr. President. In fact, you have orders from this legislature, Mr. President. The representative of the Spanish Government has no jurisdiction in politics. He has no right to say what ought to be done in the Basque City Council, and what is not to be done in the use of the eucalyptus. It's all right with you. It's up to you, Mr. President. 14 years have passed since the King of Spain signed the letter from the European language in the provinces or in the United States. His 10th letter. in the article (Administration authorities and public services) the section c), the permission to receive documents in a region or a limited area language corresponds to the authorities of the administration. The legislation over the public administration of Spain, on the other hand, regulates and protects the use of local language. The Decrea, King of the Juridic Rule of local Administration, insists upon the use of specific languages in the activities of the administration of nations. In like manner, the law of the legal law of the administration and of the civil administration makes the use of particular local languages. The representative of the Spanish Government, in spite of all this, has chosen to employ the Normaisation of the Basque Use in a malicious manner in the eulogy of the epileptic townships to impose the use of youth. Will you let him go, Mr. President? Will you allow that reprehensible representative of the legislature to use the courts against the normalization of the eucalyptus? What's the purpose, anyway, of defending the normalization of the eucalyptic use in the country and local administrations so that the President can do it in a normal way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Isas. To answer, Mr. Erkoreka, representative of the government, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Isas, it's an important and interesting subject that you plan through this interaction that you put on the table. It is true, too, that those who are proposed in written interpelation, and what you have said here, do not put a accent into the same thing. The delegates of Spain have been the exact and definite purposes of the written interpelation, and you have wished to change the original plan, in some way or another, and to set a judgment on the representative of Spain itself. It has been discussed in this, and in other cases, by the institution of the Spanish delegation, by the meaning, by the judgment, by the legal funds. I am now aware that it has been proposed in Congress itself, and that the parliamentary corps of euscals has driven an enterprise which has not yet been advanced, and which has not yet been carried out, condemning the Spanish representative's conduct. This debate, therefore, is open here and everywhere, but the legal form of the present day has been foreseen in the Constitution, it is assured that it has its own sphere, and has a right to conduct administrative undertakings to the courts. So long as things don't change that way... but the Constitution is an obstacle, and the other is a small obstacle. While this is so, it would be good to lower the level of criticism and adapt it to concrete things, to produce a more accurate debate about the interpelation you originally presented. I think it's my opinion that we can probably be more effective. You plan on your interpenetration in order to defend the normalization of the eucalycation in the administration, in order to be able to do nothing but the entrances, the cracks, and the rules of the corporations, which they want to do. Before he defines what he's going to do, first and then I think it's all right to explain what he can do, when the law's in hand, and then what he's done, and what he's done so far, because it's not the new issue, and it's the theme you've been talking about more than once. For the fundamental problem here is legal and judicial. In other words, that this representative of the Government, the representative of the Spanish Government, has made several councils, that the appeals of so many municipal councils, and the appeals of appeals to the tribunals, have been proposed to him, because they have decided to act only for the sake of continuing the execution of those councils, because they only keep the documents, and because the representative of the Government has sent them to him, and that the representatives of the Government have refused to accept them as their representatives of the Government. Well, since all this is based on appeals, and these appeals are now in the hands of the courts. I'll tell you what I'm talking about in this field, two departments that have to do with this problem in his jurisdiction camp. One is the department I run, the Public Administration and the Justice Department. The other is the Education, the Language Politics, and the Cultural Department. Above all, the version of the Language has the right responsibility for this. Well, these councils, the councils that are in this state, the councils who have been exposed to the assault and action of the Spanish representative, have come to contact him with the succession of the law, they have made contact with him, they have informed him of their concern. Not with the section I run. They never made these plans to us. They could do it. They could even come to us. Why? Because there is a fundamental legislation, the law of April 2th year 1985, which makes the foundation of local institutions, the local councils say that all the townships, in the state class, must inform the Administration of the State, and in the place of the Selfnomical Administration, Aut, the Administration of the State, and the Administration of the Administration. h nomia Erdigo Administration. Here, however, the town councils, all the councils you have mentioned, give the representative of the State's Administration a most honest account of their proceedings, and they do not send them to Errolamia. I don't know why this is, because the law is the same for one case as the other. I don't know why it's because they're more involved in the State Administration because they have more confidence because they have more tune. I don't know why, but that's the reality. They're faithfully sending the State Administration to all the acrobats and the Autonomical Administration is not sent away. Never. That's right. We, therefore, have not heard of it from the councils, the division which I conduct. Luckily, there's an internal co-ordination in the government and co-ordination with the Board of Education, and we've heard of each other and we've done what we could. This is, first, a legal examination about this, because the first thing it requires is to give a legal protection and a firm legal advice. And we put our legal criteria in a report on October 23rd, 2014, and we opened that legal report, which is known by all the councils, we have treated with the Umae, had been examined in two meetings of Hakoba (the 3rd of July and 16th of December), and this legislature also holds it. This, therefore, requires a legal protection and advice, first of all, because, as it is proposed, it is a legal and a judicial question, and in this respect the Government has done all that is to be done, because it has given its legal protection and given its legal opinion. Can he do anything else? In this case, the representative of Spain, and the council, in each case, who has received the appeal, are at stake. I don't know what to say about it. There's no special talk about going to court-martials and introducing themselves to them. His legal protection, his legal adviser, has given all the councils a legal commission to make a plan in as powerful and effective a manner as possible, but if the case be once proposed between each council and the Spanish representative, it is their business in the presence of the court. I'm sure you can't do much more than just deliver legal protection and advice as it was a legal institution. So that's what can be done and that's what's been done so far. But, to be honest, everything can be a mistake. You have mentioned the Basque Act, and in our reports, the report of my department itself, is plainly stated that this law may have some defect, because the second section of the 8th article may be intelligible in different ways. We believe, in this article, that symmetrical eloquence is applicable to the mutual relations of the institutions and the people, but that it is not applicable to the mutual relations of the institutions, because all the institutions, by the name of eloquence, are obliged to be known. But that's not how everybody understands it, and some courts don't understand it that way. Hence what we have proposed is to change the law, and the law, in order to do so, belongs to this Chamber, which is here three or four months, and the laws of the townships have two articles directed to this article, the sixth and seventh articles. And the doubt that the Euscara's law may be made of recent duration, in this second part of the eighth article, all these doubts would be solved, if the law were tried, with the content which is now in this chamber, because all these actions which have been made in this case plainly and clearly, may have a perfect and efficient value, especially in the relations of the institutions. So that's what he can still do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u41	President andrea. Changed? Change my fight? You changed it yourself. "For free" to thank the president for not answering. But, Mr. Erkoreká, change it yourself. I've never asked for "just for a drink." That's one thing you're trying to accuse us of, and we're calling it normal about it. You said here... and to make the rules only of eucalypice. It's not written, look at my question. I have placed a context, and I have mentioned the interpenetration and legislation of the President to show that he is worn out, and what this man does is the representative of the Spanish Government, the representative of the President. That's why I put it on, the interpellation's occasion. Specific things? Mr. Erkora, I asked you a question about this matter, because I knew you had it, and the answer was that you didn't know about such matters. I asked you again, knowing that you were informed of my question. Being aware of it, I think it's insolence, knowing what's going on and what's going on... The executive, here, operator, government, to operate, to prevent... The action of the Government representative, contrary to that of the State of Autonomy, I think it is plain that its appeals are made. He knows that he uses it in a sly manner, Mr. Urkjo knows that he has no rights directly, and he is passing through the courts. The funk and the president don't have to accept that. Well, I'm glad to hear from the head of the bends, and I'm going to open it up from now on, of course, because they don't send autonomy to the organs of Eroria and the Spanish! Because he threatens them, Lord Erkorene, threatens them, power, and authority. And perhaps I confess that there may be some degree of ignorance in certain cases, but let us make it plain from now on that we reply to these appeals to those institutions, which are the only ones that want to live only in Erecárek. The law of normalization, symmetrically symmetrical, legally, Mr. Erkoreka, is obviously a bit more familiar than I do, but symmetrical eloquence does not exist. It doesn't exist. Whatever it may be, it doesn't exist. Between languages there are always constant movements, and the relations between languages are naturally variable. It is a trap by the side of the process of the process of the process, which is meant to be regulated, but in order to maintain and maintain the wretched state of the eucalypæc and to maintain it. We'll try to improve and change by the City Law. And, probably, for reasons here shown, we should give up the law about the truce. The question is, by the way of the normalization of the peace, that what the Representative of the Government does is not acceptable, I have read twice what are the functions of the Representatives; it does not concern him, and it is an evil use of the courts of Araba, Biscacious, and Gipuzian courts-and he has jurisdiction to prevent Mr. President and M. The call, therefore, is to make an effort to end once and for all with those attacks of the eucalyptus. My dear friend, the President has his rights, and he protects the president's figure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Isas, yes, I have told you that you have changed your interference in written text on the role of the Spanish representative, because you do not say a single word about the legal and legal situation. All you've said here are not in written text. I've got it in my hand and you've concentrated it all together, and I can see the problem, after all, about the problem with which the delegate plans the use of the cradle. This is what appears in the written text and is here, so that anyone who wants to read can read it. Not the second one. Of course I said that it was only for the sake of euca, but it is also possible to use it for the use of the word which you use. Otherwise, it would not be possible to act normally. To be able to act alone in the Euskuke is also possible. There is, therefore, no normality in using the expressions you make use of, but they are the same, after all: for there can be no possibility of a legal execution of a battle alone, because there is no such thing as a state of routine, and there can be no possibility of a natural use in the resistance. You're telling me that it could be in the State Administration case when they don't send it to NewsMickle. There's no lack of ignorance, huh? The law plainly says: "Las entidas, localen el deber de remitir a la Administratoro del Estedo y de la Communidad Autón copia o en su caso, extracto compensivo de los acerdos de la mismas." He who knows this only for the sake of resistance immediately understands it, and the mayor alone knows that the secretary will certainly tell him what he means, so that if he does not send it, it is for another reason. Then you're telling me there's no symmetrical eloquence? When I spoke of symmetrical ambiguity, I have said in what context this expression is used, I know it is a heterodox expression, but in the second part of the eighth article of the Basque Law, you will see what I have said, if you read it, he says: "The Autonomies of the People of the People of Akal, all the actions of the People of the Society, shall be entrusted to them." "They must be in both languages." And the most obvious reflection of this is that there are two pillars in the texts, one in Spanish and one in eulogy. All the documentation between the Government and the legislature is made according to this standard of this symmetrical eloquence. This does not mean that, when I use the word symmetrical eloquence or expression, they are in a society of euphoria and youth, or that they are equal to the social reality of one and the other. It only means that the bet that the law makes about the use of eucalypancy and youth, the official environment, the symmetrical eloquence, the written text must be put into two columns, and the one with eucalyptus and the other with decay. This is what the eighth article proposes in a general manner; and this is what at the present moment may be misread against the possibility of demonstrations against the possibility of demonstration in the town. Therefore I have been willing to set forth the problem of this juridically. I agree with you, when you say that the Representative of the State here makes an evil use of his powers and possibilities of his action, and makes a very narrow reading of the law, which is very improper, and is the consequence of this, that the normalized use of the Basque application is an obstacle to the ordinary application of the Eucharist for the application of your proposition. I am satisfied with it, but he, although this Chamber, did not only admire his image, but this Chamber of Combats, has been observed in so many places the image of the Spanish representative, and the conformity of the person to it, I shall not enter into it now; he has his powers, and his means, his appeals, his appeals, and that subject is in courts of judicature. And once they make decisions in the court, things can go all wrong for the worse. That's why the law is best to change, and the law is here, and if we change the law, there's no problem here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpelation, the Mist of Gorka Maniroy, a member of the President, a member of the House ofUPyD, concerning the supposed irregularities of the Ark Bank." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning again, Mr. Lehendakari. We would like to know your opinion on the recently-known Kutxabank scandal, the measures that you would be willing to push the Basque Government to know what has happened and to clear up all political responsibilities, as well as the measures that you would be willing to implement so that such events can never happen again. We would especially like to know, in the end, his reflections on these facts, and how they may have happened. And if you are aware of other similar events that may have occurred in Kutxabank or outside Kutxabank. Similar events that may have occurred in Kutxabank or outside Kutxabank. And if you think that the ways of doing politics of the great Basque political parties should be corrected, because I believe that this is what we are talking about, ultimately, about how the great Basque political parties have behaved in recent times to benefit certain people against the general interest of the citizenry. I believe that this is what we are talking about and the most important issue: what have the big political parties done in recent times, what dark agreements they have reached, what dark pacts they have signed to benefit certain people who only had to meet a requirement to be beneficiaries of certain prebendas, to have the card of the corresponding political party in force in order. Anyway, I think this is what we should investigate. You said, in response to a previous question, that you had no involvement in the matter, and you also said that you will do everything possible to save Kutxabank's reputation. Good. What exactly do you plan to do to save Kutxabank's reputation? And how is it possible that you, being president of the Basque Nationalist Party at the time, did not know or did not know these facts? After all, there has been talk of a pact between the great Basque political parties, and I believe that the Basque Nationalist Party is one of those great Basque political parties. Therefore, we cannot believe you when you say that you did not know those facts. Or at least he misses us a lot. We are surprised that the Basque Nationalist Party does not know what has happened in Euskadi lately, and we are very surprised that the Basque Nationalist Party does not know exactly what has been happening in Kutxabank. Therefore, for all this I ask you. Anyway, we know the facts, but I'll give you a brief summary of the situation. Of course, UPyD has learned all this from the press. Surely some of those present here, or some of the absent ones, or some of the leading leaders of the Basque political parties, perhaps knew him, were inside, were in the savings boxes, were in Kutxabank. Not UPyD. UPyD has heard from the media. But in any case, what we have been able to know is the following. It is just that the current president of Kutxabank informs the board of directors that after an internal audit a substantial increase in the minute paid to a law firm had been detected without any justification for it. The result of the internal audit was transferred to the members of the board of directors. The current President of Kutxabank obtains the necessary support for the documentation to be forwarded to the Banco de España for his knowledge. The Bank of Spain orders Kutxabank to forward the same documentation to the European Central Bank. The case therefore comes to the European Central Bank. The Kutxabank officials showed the European supervisor the evidence that would demonstrate the irregular payments authorised by Mr Mario Fernández to the former delegate of the socialist government in Euskadi, Mr Mikel Cabieces. Kutxabank refers documentation on the alleged irregular payment of EUR 243,592 to a law firm with which the former government delegate, former mayor of Portugalete, socialist activist and member of the socialist executive, Mr Mikel Cabieces, collaborated. Mario Fernández, for his part, defended the integrity and honesty of his management at the head of the bank, and expressed his surprise at the entity's statement, which seems, he says, to take for granted some facts on which he in turn asks for investigation. Mr Mikel Cabieces resigns as a member of the socialist executive and delivers his socialist card. The Basque Government initially shows its surprise at Kutxabank's complaint. The secretary-general of the Basque Socialist Party, Mrs Idoia Mendia, disassociates the Basque Socialist Party from the relationship between Cabieces and Kutxabank, and, in the same way as the Basque Nationalist Party, defines the scandal as a private affair between Mr Mario Fernández and Mr Mikel Cabieces, which would not affect the Basque Socialist Party or the Basque Nationalist Party. The People's Party is also trying to disengage. When these facts happen, large traditional and conventional political parties always talk about private affairs, never know anything, never know the facts, never have any responsibility. It's always about private affairs. Ms. Mendia said that in the case of Kutxabank no leader of the Basque Socialist Party had intervened, adding that they were particular issues of a labour relationship that should be clarified in the prosecution. The Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office initiates investigation to verify that there have been irregularities in Kutxabank. The chief prosecutor of Bizkaia analyses the documentation, and conducts the first investigations. Kutxabank's Director of Human Resources, Mr. Mario Fernández and Mr. Mikel Cabieces testify before the Prosecutor. Some have said that the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi asked Mario Fernández, at the end of 2011, to help Mr. Cabieces, and, as a result, the former government delegate would be hired for three years by the labour office that works as an external adviser to Kutxabank, which would incorporate him into his team. And in return it would increase the amount of the monthly equal that then turned to BBK and weeks later to the already merged Kutxabank. Mr. Rafael Alcorta's office would have accepted the increase in his match with the bank. Mr. Mario Fernández acknowledges in a statement the payments to Mr. Cabieces, and states that in 2012 a leader of the People's Party asked him for a job leave for the former government delegate. And he cites similar cases where he supposedly acted in a similar way. Mario Fernández was not only the economist commissioned by the Basque Nationalist Party to achieve the merger of the three Basque boxes, but he led the political negotiation with the main Basque political parties to reach an agreement in the autumn of 2011, which facilitated BBK, Kutxa and Caja Vital's lending to Kutxabank. We have also known Mr. Mario Fernández's statement at the time. He talks about a pact between the main Basque political parties to facilitate a job exit for a socialist militant. Obviously, the Basque Nationalist Party is one of those great Basque political parties, I don't know if you consider it that way. The prosecution sends the case to the court, and asks to impute Mr Fernández, Mr Cabieces and Mr Alcorta. The prosecutor sees crime in the operation designed by Mario Fernández to pay Cabieces. Finally, it is said that we could be talking about three crimes: unfair administration, misappropriation and falsification of a commercial document. For us, this is a scandal, and it shows the way the great Basque political parties have acted in the last decades in Euskadi. Don't tell me you didn't know anything, that you weren't informed, that this is a private matter. What's going on here, that no one ever knows anything? Does no one ever know anything when these things happen and finally come to light? Doesn't anyone ever know anything? Nobody's responsible for anything? What happened here? Finally, I ask you for all this: what are your thoughts, what do you intend to do, since I say that a few minutes ago you have spoken that you are willing to take all the necessary steps to return the reputation to Kutxabank. How do you see the matter? What are you going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President has his word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u47	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Maneiro, as far as I'm concerned, and in my case, turn your strangeness into certainties, please. And I would like to start with one observation: Kutxabank is the most solvent entity in the Spanish financial system; it has not received a single euro of the EUR 41.3 billion that the European institutions have earmarked for the rescue of Spanish banks and financial institutions. Kutxabank is the entity of the whole State that, in proportion, invests the most through its social work in initiatives and actions aimed at the whole of society. In addition, we are talking about a Basque entity, rooted in Euskadi, committed to our business and industrial fabric; an entity that invests and generates wealth and employment in our Community. And it is, at last, an organization that is adopting the legal formula that allows it to continue to grow as a Basque entity that makes its decisions in Euskadi. You talk about measures to be taken. I want to highlight all the measures that have been taken for years and years, measures that have allowed these Basque financial institutions, the Basque savings banks, to have a highly recognised social image and prestige today. Go, therefore, to all the former presidents and managers who have made this possible, my appreciation. I would also like to reschedule something unquestionable. The Basque savings banks, the current banking foundations and also Kutxabank have had a professional and competent management, professional teams that have successfully developed their work at the head of these entities. It is fair to recognize the work and results of a professional team that in just over a few seconds has merged the three Basque boxes, then turning them into bank foundations, creating and implementing the new Kutxabank entity, making it the first entity in the state in solvency. You are talking about measures to be taken, and I want to highlight all the measures that this professional team has taken over the past few years to successfully conduct this single. Well, therefore, also my appreciation to Mario Fernández and to the managers who have made this possible precisely. And at the moment the Kutxabank also has a professional, recently elected, management that has acted according to the strictest rules of banking control. I am asking for my opinion, and I have already expressed it in my previous speech on this issue. I repeat, as much as you intend to make some reference to the Basque Nationalist Party, with a forced interpretation of the mention of the great political parties, which I do not think is so, in what was the intervention of Mr Mario Fernández, in any case, I reiterate to you, to turn your strangeness to what I have said before in certainty. The sequence of events is known. It has been explained in detail by the former president of the entity Mario Fernández himself. To this day no one has denied this account of the facts. So, at least so far, we can think that what Mr. Mario Fernández told the prosecution and then sent in an extensive press release to all the media reflects the reality of what happened. Going to what is the question, you ask me about the measures to be taken by the Basque Government. You are well acquainted with our supervisory and control competence framework. You know who is responsible for the control and supervision of Kutxabank. You know perfectly well that the institution went to its supervisory bodies (the Bank of Spain and the European Central Bank) at the same time as it detected the alleged irregularities that you cite. You know, at last, that these proceedings have already been brought to the attention of the prosecution. You know all these measures and you know who each of them corresponds to, Mr. Maneiro. And you know more. You know that last January the Basque Government submitted to public information and hearing the preliminary draft law regulating savings banks and bank foundations, whose scope of regulation does not, as you know, include banking entities, whose regulation and supervision is the responsibility of the State and the Bank of Spain. You know more. He knows that Kutxabank has acted at all times with full autonomy, and has taken the decisions he considered most appropriate for his institution. I speak to you as a lehendakari, and I guarantee you that, as the Basque Government, we will maintain a measure, a commitment of particular relevance: our attitude of respect, prudence and responsibility. On the one hand, the Basque Government reiterates and declares maximum respect for justice, which must adopt a resolution, and, on the other hand, we will act with prudence, because the Basque Government is committed, I insist, to saving and safeguarding the public image and the prestige of the Kutxabank entity. Finally, we call for public responsibility, so that this episode, which is being judged at the request of the Kutxabank itself, will not be used to undermine a reputation earned with the effort of so many professional people, based on the trust of their clients during a centuries-long career. Look, as lehendakari, and on behalf of the entire Basque Government, we have always shown and maintained maximum respect for the sovereign decisions of the Basque boxes and Kutxabank. It is up to them and it is up to them to make the decisions they understand most freely in accordance with their activity, their future, their evolution and their positioning in all areas of management. In addition, we have always adopted the active role of supervision and control of the boxes that the legislation we have put in place in this country has enabled us to do so. We have done so from constructive positions, and with the aim of preserving the social work that the savings banks have freely wanted to develop and that the law established as necessary. This is our responsibility, Mr Maneiro, and we will act on that responsibility, but nothing more than that responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u49	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. You value the management carried out in Kutxabank; however, I can remind you, for example, that Kutxabank is the banking entity that has driven the most evictions in Euskadi. Does this look like good management to you, too? Whose president, by the way, has just raised the salary by 73% to EUR 800,000 per year. Does this also seem to you to be a good management? And where there has also been this particular case that I am talking about, and we do not know if there have been any more. It may have been possible to produce more, but in any case, this has happened. And, of course, everything seems to indicate that this case has occurred as a result of a broad pact between the main Basque political parties. And by the way, you were inside, the Basque political parties were inside, first of the savings boxes, and after the banking foundations. Not only were they inside, they were fighting to be inside. If they were fighting to be inside, the question is, what did they want to get out in return? We already know what has happened in other Spanish savings banks, why political parties have been fighting each other for being inside the savings banks and within the banking foundations. It seems obvious that they wanted to be inside to use them and put them at their service. I know a few things too, Mr. Lehendakari. I know that we are dealing with a turbulent matter, which is above all a symptom that shows a concrete way of doing politics in Euskadi by the traditional political parties. They are the rotating doors of all life, Mr. lehendakari. It is the old practices of the political parties, it is the old way of doing politics, it is the amiguism and the funnelism of all life that has been given, that seems to show this case, but that has also occurred in other cases, relative, for example, to what has happened in different public enterprises, where some parties and others placed their people. It is, therefore, a matter related to the rotating doors of all life, to amigoism and to enchufism. Why do political parties use an institution that is not theirs, in this case Kutxabank, to solve their problems? What is that of "unwritten laws" that skip the existing legality that, however, must respect the ordinary of the citizens? We are not faced with a fair decision, as some have intended to sell, but with an arbitrary and discriminatory act, without any legal cover. This case shows how old political parties have acted for years in Euskadi to distribute positions and positions. This is our opinion. And I ask you: Are there more cases?, do you know more cases? How many more cases would there be, in Kutxabank or outside Kutxabank? What other dark covenants have you signed from your backs to the citizenry to benefit your own? What covenants are there? How many underground pacts that do not know citizenship are in force today for certain representatives of the main Basque political parties to be located in certain places? How many? And you didn't know anything? He was the president of the Basque Nationalist Party, but he knew nothing. The Basque Nationalist Party knew nothing about this case. That party, which knows everything and is everywhere and that everything controls it, in this case not, had no information on the matter. Can anyone believe this? Anyway, I say, they are, therefore, the revolving doors of all life. And I was also asking you what measures you will implement to regain Kutxabank's good management and honorability. You have said this before; yet you have not proposed any, and you have said that it is none of your business. Finally, there are those who propose in this Parliament that a committee of inquiry be set up to investigate what has happened in this case. I believe that what should be set up is a committee of inquiry which will analyse and investigate the way in which the old political parties in Euskadi have acted in recent years. That is the pending investigation, that is the pending commission of inquiry that should be launched, to know how many more dark pacts you have signed that the vast majority of citizens do not know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, you propose the constitution of that commission of inquiry, you entrust it to me alone, and you judge alone, which is the only thing you do. Look, Mr Maneiro, you have spoken of unwritten laws, as if that mention of unwritten laws had been made by one of the political representatives present in the House today, and it has not been and you know it, Mr Maneiro. You also confuse what is the work of the control and management bodies in the savings banks, and also in the financial institution, alluding to the interest of political parties. Mr. Maneiro, you know perfectly well: savings banks, founding entities, workers and tax collectors. Mr Maneiro, you know precisely that in order to form the assembly there are candidates, both from political groups and from trade unions, as well as from other social actors. Mr Maneiro, it is therefore the tax collectors who choose their representative bodies. Have respect for the representative bodies chosen by the tax collectors of the savings banks themselves. Look, he's going to find in me a lehendakari who wants the situation raised and judged to be clarified as soon as possible. I'm the first one interested. And the important thing is that this clarification allows the Kutxabank entity and its managing bodies to take the necessary measures (to it), before which the Basque Government has no authority. To her, Mr. Maneiro. And you recognize this reality. That it be the Kutxabank itself that takes the necessary measures to ensure that these situations do not recur. I reiterate that Kutxabank's will and determination has not given rise to doubts from the outset. An internal audit has been initiated by the entity itself. The one you say is controlled by the Basque Nationalist Party. An internal audit has been initiated by the entity itself. And it was the Kutxabank itself that realized the facts, Mr. Maneiro. I believe in the Kutxabank project, in the project of a professional Basque bank, solid and effective, which invests in Euskadi, their families and their businesses, which reverses its profits through social work. And these are the measures I believe in. I am convinced that the Kutxabank entity can emerge strengthened from this situation. You ask me for measures, and I propose measures so that this can be done, starting with an appeal for responsibility, Mr Maneiro. Being responsible is synonymous with demanding that this issue be clarified, and I do. Take the necessary steps to ensure that it does not happen again, and I do. Being responsible is not using Kutxabank as a bold political weapon, Mr. Maneiro. Being responsible is not helping to project and amplify the reputational damage that this unfortunate episode could cause, and I ask for the utmost responsibility not to put at risk the confidence in the credit, seriousness and professionalism of Kutxabank. To be responsible, Mr Maneiro, is also to act seriously, seriously also in the parliamentary sphere, in relation to this issue, to comply with the judicial resolutions that are open, and not to help speculate in undermining the professional prestige of the entity, I insist, the most solvent of the state and one of the most solvents in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, tell him that the fourteenth point is left for another. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpologising, Antonio Damborenea Basterrechea by the law of the Basque Groups for the president, the Ark Bankski." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, I'll try to be very responsible. In 2011 in this country there were three savings boxes that each had their problems. BBK had the problem that it had many shares in companies and companies that could harm it for the purposes of the bank's own capital. Vital was too small, it could not finance medium-sized Alawite companies, because the risk factor with a single company prevented it from doing so. And the Kutxa gipuzcoana, with forgiveness, had some fantastic troubles because it had dedicated itself to doing business with brick on the entire coast of the Spanish Mediterranean. That was the situation, and in that situation it seemed to us, you and others that a decision had to be made for the future of those boxes or for the future of the bank that was then created. A future thinking of how to improve the competitiveness of those three boxes, of that bank, how to grow. And obviously it wasn't a model, the one I'm saying, Euskaltel model (i.e., we already have our phone company, we operate here, we're fantastic, we compete with the world here, and in the end it's only a matter of time that doesn't work, as it happened). It was for that financial institution to grow in the rest of Spain and get profits. Because the three boxes already had at the time more than 50% of the market share; it was almost impossible that they could increase it. They could only go down. That was the approach, and that is where we come in. Three years later, or four years later (we are in 2015, but they come to be three and peak), what do we find ourselves with? With a very solvent bank; with a bank that in its own business produces few profits, and, in fact, the new president said it came to earn money. We all understood – besides him, but well – that the bank came to make money, because, obviously, it is what a bank has to do, because if you don't make money and you don't make profits there is no social work, and that's what the shareholders, who are the three old savings banks, are now foundations. But what do we have today? For a bank that has not grown, that continues to operate here (with the exception of Cajasur, which was already in BBK before); with a change of president, without explanation of any kind... And what do we have today? Besides today, not three years... today, what do we have? A complaint against the former president of the bank, who is in court; the hiring of the new one, with the mess of salaries, which we also have, and today we also have breakfast with which the bank itself is investigating more irregularities. A moment ago Mr Lehendakari was telling us, man, that the bank's reputational damage had to be tried to minimize it, and it is clear that I know and we all know that a bank is based on trust. That is, that is the key and most important factor in a bank's assets. Of other entities it is possible that others, but of a bank is trust. And I don't know if Mr. lehendakari thinks the snake that the bank itself is doing benefits that bank. I don't know, but, well, it's one of the things I ask you. And I do want to tell you something. Because you used to say that nobody here has talked about unwritten rules. Yeah. Look, I can understand that Mr. Mario Fernández claims in his defense what he wants, but what I can't understand is that Mr. lehendakari, in the first of the five questions that he had in the morning, speaks of unwritten rules. And we've been talking about these unwritten rules for a period of time, not to mention fifteen or twenty days, which we'd like someone to explain to us at once and which apparently serves to meet the written rules. So, we'd like someone to explain this to us about the unwritten rules. And also with an aggravating factor, because it is apparently trying to sell, and today we have two cases here in Parliament too, that the laudable end of the measures justifies the means. And that laudable end some... That I understand the defences that each one of you claims in court, that you consider relevant, but what I cannot understand, Mr Lehendakari, is that you allege to us the fight against terrorism as a laudable goal to breach the written rules. Because we have never admitted that, and unless we are told that the laudable end is that someone very significant in the fight against terrorism, let's say, has to benefit him in some way. Because I have a list, only in Bizkaia, of over a hundred people who have never received a hard one. Then, I would like if anyone knows those unwritten or written rules to tell me, because they would pass on the relationship of people who have been badly harmed in the fight against terrorism, who have given a lot of face in this country, and have received nothing from anyone, or help from nothing from anyone. But I repeat that this that the end justifies the means, the very laudable end justifies the means, justifies non-compliance with the rules... We also see this with the appointment of the new adviser: as he has benefited workers, it does not matter whether he defrauds Social Security or fails to comply with all the rules. Then, we begin to see in Basque politics how the end, if it is laudable, justifies the means; if the beneficiary has a more or less laudable justification, it does not matter if the rules are violated, the written ones I mean, because the unwritten ones I suppose each one is invented. I already know that the bank is a private entity, I know, and that obviously the control bodies of the bank, as of all banks, are the ones. But I also know, and you know and we all know, that you have shareholders. And you know and we all know who the shareholders are. And you know that BBK has 57% of the bank's capital and that it is the highest shareholder. And you know and I know that if shareholders, who should control it, do not control you as a government, you do have certain possibilities. I know that not to control the bank, but you yourself mentioned in the previous question that there is a preliminary draft law on savings banks and bank foundations which, of course, gives rise to the government to put in place measures to enable shareholders, in this case the foundations, the old banks, to take measures outside the banks themselves or outside the regulators themselves, be they the Bank of Spain or the European Central Bank. Because that's the only public left and that's the only public control left of Kutxabank, the shareholders. And that is where this government has jurisdiction, to regulate shareholders and to put in place measures so that no one can talk about unwritten rules and comply with written rules, in any case and for everyone. And that is what we have raised in this question to Mr Lehendakari: if, after seeing what has happened, given what is happening, this Government is considering in that preliminary draft adopting measures that allow shareholders, in this case the foundations, which do belong to this government and have the competence to regulate them..., that controls can be established on the management of the bank itself, and not depend on the bank's self-management and on the bank's self-control or the bank's own self-denouncement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Damborenea, I thank you for saying that you are trying to be responsible, or you will be trying to be responsible. Me too. And I begin by wondering what the meaning of his intervention has been, according to the formulation of the interpellation. Because the justification for your inquiry is: "Recently the Kutxabank council has placed in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office irregularities detected in a contract, which apparently may be criminal. It is clear that public opinion, of course negative, questions Kutxabank's way of acting for its political decisions. In addition, Kutxabank is in a complex situation where shareholders must comply with European rules as regards percentages of shares allowing the depoliticisation of the old savings banks. For this reason, it is interesting to know the Basque People's Group whether it is his Government's intention to propose in the new law measures to ensure that transparency also reaches the old savings banks and their successors, i.e. banks and foundations." I don't know where you got me talking about unwritten rules. I made reference in the previous intervention to who has spoken of unwritten laws. I have made no mention of unwritten rules, Mr Damborenea. In any case, I would like to reiterate what I said in my first speech in response to the parliamentary group EH Bildu: I do not understand that political leaders with the capacity to seek a solution in the public and institutional political sphere have to resort to a private entity for this. I think it's a mistake. Mr Damborenea, if anyone has acted according to unwritten rules, in this case it is also neither the Basque Nationalist Party nor the Basque Government. And I won't go on, Mr. Damborenea. In that exercise of responsibility to which I commit myself, I want to answer to what is your inquiry. To what is his interpellation. I would like to reply by telling you that, as is public and notorious, the Basque Government started last month the process of a new bill regulating savings banks and bank foundations, through its prior approval and public communication. And that, as it is public and well known, in the public presentation of the preliminary draft text, today at the stage of the allegations of the people concerned and in general public information, the scope of regulation that belongs to the Basque Government was made clear. And I want to make it clear today too. Thus, it was indicated that this area was limited to savings banks and bank foundations, and not to banking entities, whose scope of regulation and supervision falls within the competence of the Banco de España and the basic rules of the State, if any. And, made this initial assessment, and only by delimiting the competence and the scope of relevance of the inquiry, and understood this as limited to savings banks and bank foundations, the rules in force (the current one) already include, among the principles that inform the exercise of the functions of protectorate and public control of savings banks, already that of ensuring compliance with the principles of democratization, advertising, professionalization, independence, as well as transparency in the election, composition and functioning of their government organs. In this respect, Mr Damborenea, the legal system has gradually established greater transparency requirements in the management and operation of savings banks and also for bank foundations. Therefore, what I can tell you is that the Basque Government, in its announced and publicized draft legislation, has done what it has done is to transfer the above-mentioned principles, which apply to savings banks, also to bank foundations, always within its powers. Today, it is up to the state regulator and supervisor to do the same with banks in general, and in this case with Kutxabank in particular. Not the Basque Government. It is pertinent to recall that both the regulator and the State supervisor mentioned above are bodies managed in addition to what may be the power or influence of the People's Party in the sphere of the State, or appointed at its instance. In conclusion, it is clear that the new Basque law on savings banks and bank foundations must be a product of the Basque legislature, of this Parliament, so that every parliamentarian, like you, who is a caller, has before him the possibility of improving any aspect of the aforementioned preliminary draft presented by the Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u57	Man, Mr. lehendakari, the meaning of the inquiry is very clear, and it's written and you've read it. Does it not seem strange to you that, when the biggest accusation, for example, coming from this side of Parliament, to Kutxabank is that it wants to privatize, and when it turns out that they say "it is that it wants to privatize", it turns out that there is nothing public because there is no public instrument that controls Kutxabank? Here something is failing, or something is failing us all, or something is doing very badly, or something we are doing very badly among all of us. Because if there is the risk of privatization, and it turns out that it is already more private, I don't know, that BBVA – for example – I don't know what the approaches are or why it changes its president at the time, that no one has explained it to us either, but good. It is clear what our inquiry is. Our question is whether this Government, given that it has the capacity to regulate banking foundations in that law, and there is one of them that has 57 per cent of the bank's capital, whether through that law this Government intends to have some public control. And I say "right." Because, if not, it seems that all the debate we have been attending during these months of Kutxabank and what made you so nervous, that these gentlemen accused you of privatization, is all false and ridiculous. Because, of course, more private than this is nothing. The Basque Government has nothing to say, the parliaments have nothing to say, the municipalities have nothing to say... no one has anything to say to anyone. And this is what causes strangeness, and it causes us much, because it is evident that someone does have much to say, which is the one who commands. And who's in charge? The shareholder! The shareholder runs a bank. And when there is one who has 57%, then it is obvious that that is the one who commands, that is the one who decides, changes president, becomes president... That's why it's done. That's why it's done. Therefore, this of the fact that public institutions do not control anything, but aside, apparently, others do control it, so it will have to be regulated in a law. And, of course, you do have the power to regulate that, and the government does. My question is whether the government... I already know that I can make amendments, when the bill comes, if it comes someday, because it may or may not. You're in the pre-project phase. Therefore, in his day the project will arrive here. I know that I will be able to make amendments, but my question is not the amendments that I am going to make. When I have it and when I see what you are presenting, I will see whether I am making amendments or not, or my group is making amendments or not, but the question is very clear. It is if you, who are the lehendakari of this government, who have the power to bring the draft cash law here and are studying it in the preliminary draft, plan to adopt some measure that can give some control to that protectorate that the Basque government has over the foundations – because it is the Basque government that has them – that in some way allows these supposed public funds... Because, of course, everything is assumed, everything is assumed, because everything is private and nothing we can do from any institution in order to control anything. If you intend and your Government intends, in this preliminary draft law, to take some measure so that the control of the foundations, which is its competence, can be effective on the bank. But it's not that one has 50%: it's that among the three they have 100%. And of these shareholders the responsible and the one that regulates and legislates are this House and this government, which have 100% of the bank and which are the ones that run the bank. Because we already know that the bank is private, but they have public shareholders one hundred percent. And I do not think it is very responsible for the lehendakari of this government to say that it is not the government's responsibility to do so because, as a private bank, the supervisor depends on what the Bank of Spain or the European Bank tells him. Yeah, we know, the accounting rules do. But his responsibility lies with the shareholder, in whom he runs the bank, in which he makes decisions: if he grows up, if he doesn't grow up, if he does this or does the other, if he contracts with one another or contracts with another. And that is why our inquiry is very clear and very simple; it is the one we have written to you and the one I have told you here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Damborenea, I begin by telling you that in your speech you once again suggest that political decisions have taken place in Kutxabank, and I have said one and a thousand times in this forum and now I repeat that the government is not going to qualify and much less value the decisions that it is free to make to a private banking entity that is supervised and regulated by the State's financial authorities. With regard to the depoliticisation of the old savings banks, which are now bank foundations, and with regard to the European legislation to be complied with, we have also said on many occasions that it has always been the responsibility of the State to enact the legislation transposing the timely European legislation, and in fact it has done so, by issuing a basic law which this Government has respected. This Government, by virtue of its statutory powers, has complied with the basic rules of the State. We have drawn up the preliminary draft in such a way that, if there could be any leftover politicisation, it would have been the responsibility of the European and Spanish authorities in the first instance to eliminate it. I accept that a new effort can be made on this issue by the Basque Government. However, I am only asking you, Mr Damborenea, for consistency, because let me first say that I do not understand that this requirement comes from a representative of the People's Party. Why? Because you are demanding here what you and your party have decided not to raise in the basic regulations. And if they wanted it here, or if they wanted it here, they only had to have approved it there; and if they did not want it there, it is not understood that they propose it here. But, secondly, let me also ask you for some consistency, because in the reference to the preliminary draft law on savings banks and bank foundations we have also been accused, by one of the entities concerned, of interventionism by the Basque Government. But not only by a part of the institutions or entities concerned, but also by a high institutional political representative of his own party, such as the deputy general of Araba, who has described this preliminary draft law as overly interventionist. Look, Mr. Damborenea! You therefore call for transparency, but your proposal seems to me to have no credibility, because it lacks the minimum of clarity, the minimum of commitment and the minimum of coherence that you demand from others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Ask the question, Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members made to the president, and an historic member of the week-ends of ETB." Mr. Maneiro is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u61	Yes, thank you, President. I ask you, Mr Lehendakari, for the presence in ETB, as a Tertullian, of Mikel Zubimendi, an ex-member of the terrorist band ETA, who has not repented of his trajectory or apologized to society or to the victims of terrorism. And we can also remember that in one of his television appearances he showed his esteem for the terrorist Santi Potros. I ask you how do you feel about this EITB decision to include a person with this shameful trajectory as a Tertullian. We are talking about a person who was the leader of Jarrai, later of Herri Batasuna, formation for which he held a seat in this Parliament and where he led various clashes with the Presidency and with the Ertzaintza, and came to throw lime in the seat of Councillor Ramón Jáuregui. He subsequently left Spain, fled to France to join ETA, where he was arrested a few years later alongside Kantauri, the leader of the terrorist gang's military apparatus. He was sentenced to eight years in prison for crimes of association of evildoers for terrorist purposes, illicit possession of weapons and false documentation, considering the court playing an eminent role of responsibility in ETA. And it turns out that a person with this trajectory is invited as a Tertullian on Basque public television. An absolute shame. And that's why we're asking you if you share EITB's decision to give a character a voice with this trajectory. To us, of course, we find it a shame, and one more reason to ask for Mrs Iturbe's resignation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u63	The President of the Parliament, the President, the Chief of Staff, the Member of Parliament, is a good day. Mr Maneiro, first of all, I would like to make it clear that the choice of parties in the EITB programmes makes it responsible for them. " Los contertulios pueden tener una presencia más dotal oporática o más estable." From this Illus, I should like to make it clear that Michael's Mount is not the usual EIB speaker, but he has taken part in two controversies. The first debate he had taken was on November 20, because of the anniversary of Santi Brouard and Josu Muuruz murder. Then, with the suggestions of Gara, Michael approached the bridge. He agreed to the part and the program was normal. Nothing happened. Hau ére gehitu behar dut: gainontzeko solaskideek, sense of ideology ezberdinen izenean part hartu izan zutenek, aldez aurretik bazekiten Mikel Zubimendik part hartuko zuela programan, age inork ez zuen inolako ez ez evagozpenik jarri. None of the Tertullians who were going to take part in the debate representing the various ideological sensitivities, and who knew previously about Mikel Zubimendi's participation in the program, I insist, none of them objected to this. After this first participation, the producer contacted him again to take part in the second debate on corruption and the release from Luis Bárcenas prison. That debate took place on 22 January, and that was the cause of the controversy. In this regard, I have to say that the views of the parties represent only their authors. The views expressed on that programme by Mikel Zubimendi represent only him. In any case, I must stress that this Government does not share these views, opinions which, by the way, reflect a low sensitivity to the suffering of the victims and which, of course, are in frontal opposition to the EITB editorial line; an editorial line based on EITB's absolute commitment to human rights, recognition and care for the victims and peaceful coexistence as an intransferable responsibility of a public media. In the end, I want to show you the EIB commitment for this peace and a partnership in the planet's philosophy and content. To prevent similar situations from occurring again, without disturbing the respect due to plural nature, certain criteria which will be determined and cultivated by the victims' confession and sensibility.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u64	Thank you, chief physician. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u65	Thank you, President. Mr. Lehendakari, don't you dare answer this question? It is a matter, I believe, relevant enough for you to give your opinion on the presence of an ex-member of the terrorist gang in EITB. You had to say here that you do not agree at all with that approach. Because you were actually called once, counselor, and then you were called again. And you say nothing happened. Yes, it did. It happened that a voice was given to a person who was a member of ETA and whose trajectory we all know. So, yes, it did, and don't you say nothing happened. Their presence alone is an insult and humiliation to society, and in particular to the victims of terrorism. His presence alone, calling a person of these characteristics and allowing him to express his opinion, as if he were a journalist like any other, is an insult to intelligence and a shame. It is a shame, and it is one more reason to request the resignation of the Director General of EITB. Mr Lehendakari had to have responded and he had to have said that he did not agree at all that these people should be given a voice. This is what the lehendakari should have done. And we wait and demand that this person never appear again on our television or on our radio. That's what we demand. It's an insult to his presence alone. Plurality yes, of course; freedom of expression yes, of course. One thing is that, another thing is to give a voice to a person with this trajectory, who has not repented of his facts, who was a member of ETA, who was a leader of ETA, and whose behavior is a shame for society. And this person is called as a Tertullian to EITB. An unacceptable shame. And we demand that it not appear again, therefore, by EITB. Don't ever show up in EITB again. He was called once, and he was called a second time. A shame, and one more reason to ask for Mrs Iturbe's resignation. Mr Lehendakari, you should have said here that you disagree with that approach and with that decision by EITB. It's a subject that's relevant enough.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u66	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u67	Maneiro jauna, the government has already changed its position, and I believe that clearly. And, as I have already told you, the Mount Michael is not the author of the "Debat" program. He's taken part in the program twice as a human representative of the ideological sensibility of Gara and left patriot. The fact that a person has been convicted at an earlier time, having already served his or her sentence and having full right to exercise his or her basic rights and fundamental freedoms, should not in itself be grounds for excluding possible participation in the various debates. But the case we're studying today shows us that maybe that's not enough. For this reason ETB is making deep reflection about this subject, in order to avoid the like circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Michael Unzalu Hermosa, a member of the Socialists of the Union, was made to the President, another condemned by a person condemned for terrorism on the public euscal television." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, Congressmen, good morning to all. Sociists don't want the public euska radio station to be used to justify what should never be. We don't want all of us to be used to raise people who are known to kill or murder. We do not accept this in any way, however private they may be, because they fulfil a social function, but we do it more firmly in the case of a public media, and it has happened again. Mr Lehendakari, I will continue to ask you the question too, because it was so formulated. I don't know who's gonna answer that. Socialists do not question their ethical position. We are convinced that you, like us, share that no one should ever have been killed, kidnapped, extortioned or threatened for any political or State reason, that no one should justify it and that no one should avoid their responsibility. But we have to ask your opinion because those who are at the head of EITB have once again eluded the face. With much effort and great understanding, also with you, we have agreed a year and a half ago that EITB, from a strategic perspective, must be an instrument for building peace, for repairing and normalizing coexistence, for preserving the memory and dignity of the victims, for recognizing the damage caused, and for greater respect for human rights and democracy. This text is far removed from the fact that in ETB human qualities can be exalted by someone who, if known for something, is because of his status as a terrorist. In addition to questioning whether a convicted terrorist who has served his sentence should be a contertulian, we believe that recovering all civil and political rights does not in any way mean acquiring the right to insult the victims. EITB's management decides who should participate in the talks, but in a public service I believe we must demand that it rejects those who, after having been convicted of terrorist crimes, do not take the pain caused and do not comply with Law 4/2008 on Reparation and Recognition of Victims of Terrorism. And that's why we want to ask you for an opinion, from the point of view of ethics, because management has preferred to suspend a program – which, by the way, had been confirmed days earlier in EITB's programming – rather than tackle the issue and reject a Tertulian who offended the victims of terrorism. That is why we ask you, as the ultimate leader of the whole Basque public network and of the principles that must govern its functioning, its opinion. Not why was that gentleman in the program, but his opinion on the presence in EITB, as a contertulio, of a convicted terrorist who exalts the qualities of other terrorists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u71	President andrea. Mr. Unzalu, in your question, you mentioned an important matter based on the EIB Stratal Plant, which is the following. One thing, and after a long period of terrorism and the usual subjugation of rights, the Basque Society lives in a new age. We must use this time to build peace, to revive and strengthen life, to preserve the memory and dignity of the victims, to confess the injury done, and to fix the relations of the present and future to the full respect of human rights and democracy. The question was deeply reflected at the beginning of the legislation when he was working on EIB's Plan Extras. You know very well that the effort to agree was very important, and by labour and industry we have the text of the present Stratical Plan, agreed with different parties. The strong commitment of the EITB leadership to human rights and peaceful coexistence is reflected in the EITB strategic plan, and, as you well know, that plan is the main basis of the entity's actions. However, and unfortunately for all of us, we cannot make such a statement with the same level of roundness for each and every one of the people who take part in EITB's various programmes and debates. I assure you that nothing would like this Government more than to ensure that all of us who make up Basque society share such a laudable commitment to the same level of involvement and adherence. That would undoubtedly be one of the greatest achievements and successes this Government could achieve. As I have said before, every man that participates in the controversies and controversies is master of his opinions and expressions. EIB cannot be concerned with the opinions and expressions of all men, though he will always endeavour and endeavour to interfere with any behaviour or improper conduct, if the state demands it. As you know, the responsibility of EIB is to guarantee multiplicity in the programmes and disputes that it organizes. Sometimes it's hard to find the right people to talk about a particular subject. In any case, EITB always makes an effort to support this variety. And at the same time he'll make a special effort and continue to respect his editorial line, based on the defense of human rights. I would therefore like to underline our firm commitment and that of EITB's leadership to the active rejection of any expression of violence, in particular that exercised by ETA, and to the solidarity and accompaniment that is due to all those who have suffered it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u73	Mr. Lehendakari, you're still unanswered, but, well, I'm going to answer the counselor. Let's see, you have answered me with what I said (I have read to you what we actually agreed on in the strategic plan), but you have not responded to what I asked Mr Lehendakari, which is his opinion on the presence of a terrorist who makes statements in favour of another terrorist, exalting another terrorist, and the impact this has on the victims. You haven't answered me that at all. You've thrown balloons out. You've done the same thing the EITB address did: throw balloons out. The same as Mr Lehendakari, who does not come to answer here either. You've done exactly the same thing, throwing balloons out, not taking the mistake. Because you, with dignity, had to have said "It was a mistake for this person to be on that program; it was a mistake to be allowed to insult the victims of terrorism on that program," and you have not said it. They hide their heads again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u74	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u75	Unzalu jauna, I believe that in the previous speech, as I said to Mr Maneiro, the Government made clear its position and its opinion. And, as I have said before, it is not, therefore, the reason why a person should be condemned, if he has fulfilled his punishment, and has all the right to execute his fundamental rights and liberties, to exclude him from disputes. But today, as I said before, the detailed case we're studying shows us that perhaps it's not enough. In any case, it's clear that there's still a lot of work to do in defense of human rights, in the rebellion of terrorism and in the peace and partnership of the victims, and we're ready to advance on that road. Therefore, in the presence of the editorial and peace and fellowship of EIB, and the expressions or conduct of the world against the philosophy and content of the planet, there is a profound reflection upon a single purpose EITB, in order to respect of its editorial tradition, and of the commitment to peace and fellowship, which is founded on human rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Myria Llanos, a member of the Basque Groups of Populak, condemned to the president for terrorism by Michael's mount, concerning the "Debat" program of the 1st" of ETB. Miss Llano, your word is now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u77	Thank you, Madam President. (It was the impatience to see if the third one is beaten and we are answered.) Terrorism continues to cause suffering in this land to which its victims were subjected, and from the public authorities we have an obligation to try to carry out active policies, political and social delegitimization of the actions of terrorism. And Basque public television, as an entity depending on the Basque Government, must collaborate with that goal. And you, Mr Lehendakari, as the highest authority of that Basque Government, must do so, but not from the statements, but from the facts. From the perspective and in accordance with law enforcement, EITB has its own strategic plan, in which it is true that it is committed, in coordination with the Basque institutions, to contribute actively to social awareness by delegitimizing terrorism. It must also be said that this principle was not included motu proprio by EITB's own management, but we had to be the groups that introduced that point. But very well. Once there is delegitimization within the EITB strategic plan, we do not understand that a person like Mikel Zubimendi participates in an ETB debate. We have learned that this debate is going to be withdrawn, but the solution is not to withdraw the programme, but to choose the contertules much better. By selecting the contertules according to your personal trajectory. And this group doesn't understand that a person from Mikel Zubimendi's personal trajectory can be a contertulio on Basque public television. When we asked, the director told us she had to look at him. Mr. Lehendakari, what do you think of Mikel Zubimendi's presence in a debate program? Do you also have to do a deep reflection? Do you have to look at him, too?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u78	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u79	President andrea. Mrs. Llanos, I think we've already said what we have to say about EITB this evening, and it's all the same whether the president or I answer it, because it's the same thing after all. We've made it clear what's going on in front of the "EITB opinion" and the position created. I do not think it worth while to remind you of all that has been said on the spot again, but three or four points, the most important, the most important, the end of this matter. First, Mikel Zubimendi is a person who, having already served his sentence, is fully entitled to exercise his basic rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, the fact that he was previously convicted is not by itself a reason for excluding the various debates. In any case, it is not a regular EITB contertulum, but it has participated only in two contertulums. The rest of the Tertullians, of various ideological sensitivities, knew of their participation in the programme and did not object to it. The statements and opinions delivered by Zubimendi on the programme subject to the controversy raised represent only him. The Basque Government and the management of EITB do not share these views, as reflected in the EITB statement on this issue and as highlighted in my previous interventions. For this reason EIB is reflecting deeply on this subject, and in order that the like conditions may not happen again, without being disturbed by the respect due to the plural, he is working on and on certain criteria which will determine and improve the confession and sensibility of the victims.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u81	Thanks again. Apart from Mr. Zubimendi's criminal trajectory, he has statements, he treasured statements about Gregorio Ordóñez, about the murder of Gregorio Ordóñez, or about the kidnapping of Mr. Aldaya, who no longer only made him worthy of being on a television show. But what he did on that television show was legitimize terrorism, because he talked about Santi Potros, a person convicted of thirty-three murders, as "a great guy" and whom he greatly appreciated. Do you think that's delegitimizing terrorism? Anyone who appreciates a person responsible for so much suffering? How would you feel that, as much as he had served his sentence, a rapist would go on television and say that another rapist is a person he greatly appreciates? Or a woman abuser. Would that seem normal to you? No, you wouldn't have to look at that at all. However, this has to be looked at. It's of absolute gravity. As it is of a gravity to blame the contertules. I mean, are the contertules the ones who have to say whether or not they go, who has to go or doesn't have to go? No, no, The responsibility lies with you, in which you accept as valid and as necessary the didactic opinions and exemplary characters like Mikel Zubimendi. It's your responsibility. Because Mr Zubimendi's participation – to call him in some way – in this programme can only respond to a pusylanimous direction, and even sometimes understanding with ETA terrorism. Because this does not respond to a mistake, because they are not even recognizing that they were wrong, but to a thought-provoked decision. And if they have withdrawn the program has been by pressure, by pressure from the media. Not out of conviction, Mrs. Uriarte. And ETB cannot become a loudspeaker for terrorists who are condemned (convicted) for very serious acts to make statements that they only seek to continue legitimizing terrorism. Violence has no justification, no justification, and testimonies like that of Mr Zubimendi, what they claim is that it has justification. And what we need are media that do not cover the justifications of the violent, and to achieve that end what we need are also political leaders convinced of it. And believe me, Mr. lehendakari, occasions like this, in which you have not even answered, do not give that conviction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u82	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Finally, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u83	Mrs Llanos, I believe and believe that I have been sufficiently clear and concise in my explanations. EITB's leadership is fully aware of and committed to the philosophy and content of the Peace and Co-existence Plan; therefore, it does not share opinions that reflect a low sensitivity for the victims' pain and that are in frontal opposition to EITB's editorial line. On the other hand, in conclusion, and in insisting on what I have so often expressed in this legislature at the present time, it is reflecting on what has to be done; and, from this reflection, criteria will be determined that such circumstances should not occur again. And I think what you're looking for today is not really an engagement, but something else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Dani Mazzu Perez EH collect members of the team to the president, about the naming of Angelo Toña Enplegu and the head section of the Polic Society." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u85	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. This is the question which we made from the House of Basques, in order to know the reasons or criteria of the name or judgment of the new Mayor of Emplegus; but it is known that this week has occurred about this nomination, and we believe that what has been known this week has been a fair influence upon that denomination, and therefore directly. You said you didn't know in public that there was a verdict, so you could help Mr. Toña be a convesal administrator. Do you think, once you know this, that Mr. Toña is satisfied with the criteria that she should choose to be Chief Enplegu, knowing that the wages of the workers were not guaranteed, and that she is even involved? Do you think he fulfills the criteria of becoming Chief Eplegus? Why do we ask this? For us, in all the workers' houses, it must be the privilege of securing your rights without exception, not because it calls concursive laws, but because this must be sacred to us in a concursion. For us, because it must be a priority in any case, and in this long process the rights of all workers have not been guaranteed, and for that reason Mr. Toña is at this moment impressed. We are very clear, and we agree with what the union says, if possible, to get ahead of an industrial project, if the steps of the concursal law can be changed, and we know that this is done and that in many cases it is useful, in this case the statement is very clear, and in the instincts which have been made in this case, it becomes very clear that in the case zero is saved, that no project has been manufactured, and the laborers have not been paid for wages.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u86	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u87	Chief of Parliament. By what criterion has the President decided to refer to the President as the President of the National Society? I'd start by saying that he's a strong person, but no, the first criterion is the formation and work experience of Angelo Toña. He's known the policies and companies, he's got the world's knowledge of business, he's been a corporation, he's had experience of managing and he's been defending the workers' interest, Mr. Mazetu. During these days we have had the profound knowledge of this engagement, clearly that all the unions have accepted it. The second criteria is that he knows public administration from within, and he's been working at two different times, economics and jobs. I have also considered a third criterion: Ángel Toña has gone to college for three decades, has practical knowledge and therefore theoretical. And the fourth criterion has been his personality and his attitude. You have to integrate it into a group that's on the march, and I'm afraid that's going to be done properly and in a short time. Ángel Toña joins a government in progress, and I have taken into account his capacity for integration and team building. Its commitment to the productive economy and its idea of a company as a shared challenge for the owners, managers and workers. I have appreciated their independence and social commitment, which has been demonstrated since the first day of their exercise. He has an accredited professional experience, and is committed to the principles and values that inspire the idea of this Government. The only claim of his group remains, from the same Monday, to wear out, to discredit the person, to discredit the government... Ours will continue to strengthen ethical commitment and good governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u89	Yes, Mr. President, I don't... We don't question Mr. Angelo Toña's whole story. When you mentioned Curriculum you didn't mention one thing, you took his case above the committee. The government took him away, but that's not the usual government tramite. Has every head of the department been through there? Why did it pass? So if there's anything he's looking at, I mean. We're not now studying the course of Angelo Toña, but a concrete fact, you said the Sorho in public what you knew, and now we're studying in a moral committee, which is objective. Therefore, considering this, this is not only a formal aspect, but we ask the President what the Ethic Committee will say with emphasis, which is important: will he consider all that has happened? Findo, which is deep, will you consider? Besides which, when the blonde is important, there are ratings of unions, which, of course, we must all consider. This also happened in the course of the week, and it is also certain that in this process the rights of certain workers have not been confirmed. And it's not five, and that's a very dangerous argument, and you've used it. This is not a question against five or a hundred workers. This is the fact that some of the workers have failed to collect in a consecrational process, the owners of a terrior have been left unpaid, and that must be considered as a matter of fact. So for all of us, we didn't lie, and let's say the real relatto, and consider everything that's happened this week, but don't make a false relatto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mazezu, I'd be grateful to you for once if you'd just talk about the details, for once. For once. And who took it to the Public Code Committee? And what did you say about this, about the workers? Who said anything for you? Be more precise, Mr. Mazez, though it's just for once. The new department director has agreed with the government program, as well as the strategic planning and the ethical code. He knows the state of his group well and he's a part of it. It is clear what aims and challenges are, and above all it knows the importance of our enterprise, in order to answer the demands of society properly and honestly. You have spoken about your vital trajectory or the vital journey I have made, and you want to focus on a point-by-point issue. Good. Ángel Toña has been gaining day-to-day personal and professional confidence in his entire environment. Their immediate reaction, informing and making themselves available to the Public Ethics Commission, has shown good proof of their attitude. And we had not known, Mr Maeztu, such immediate and unanimous support from all the Basque unions, from the representatives of the workers, from all the workers, Mr Maeztu. I have been greatly drawn to the assessment that you have initially expressed. I thought you were going to reconsider your initial position, without having the deference to listen to the advisor's own clarifications. It would be more consistent, Mr Maeztu, to reconsider your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collector to the President, to come to terms with the Spanish Government against terrorism." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and good morning to all of you. Today, on the day against torture, we confess and celebrate the victims of torture in the Basque Country. Many rights have been violated in this country under pretence of a struggle against terrorism. The situation we still experience today. This is how the recent events indicate it. During the Congress of January, Congress of 21, Congress, Congress was confirmed by Congress by Congress, Congresswoman Esteban Bravo, the president was offering a deal in the history of terrorism for two years, and she hasn't yet received any answers, or even a gesture from your government. A gesture, Mr. President, has been more than a sign, because we have suffered all these severe and clear facts. The citizen's freedoms are limited by military operators. New allegations of convenience are manufactured, that people may be arrested unjustly. They press hard on the jurid engineer's accelerator. For political work, we still retain legal police processes, which, at last, are opposed to the institution of Liberation. The penal code changes so that punishment always becomes more rigid and more severe. An anti-terrorist pact is signed, which imposes the penalty for life. More than one gesture, taking what we are taking from the Spanish government, a deriba, a lack of direction. Martin Scheinin said that the Spanish State slips from a slippery slope. What's the sign you expect from the Spanish Government that I've drawn in front of this situation? What is the answer Mr. President expects from the government coming down that slippery slope? And in front of this panoma, do you think that it is possible to make an agreement with a government that oppresses rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u94	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, in order to know the president's criteria and attitudes, there is no need to go to Madrid and the spokesman of the parliamentary company in Madrid can be brought here. The President himself has officially tested a Plan of Peace and Company, and we have said more than once that the whole plan is a light, precise, open page of fun, agreed as far as possible, and in that document the Government's plan is to collect its plans about terrorism. And there are seven goals with which there are seven ends, and those that have to do with the banishment of human rights, which encourage all the expeditions against all human rights, concerning political memory, about political prisons. All the agreements that would have to be completed from the point of view of fun would have to be articulated around it, both with the central government and political parties, and with the parliamentary groups of this legislature. It's on that axis of our planning. The course page of our behavior is up there, and we'll start from there to complete all the compacts we have to do. There are difficulties, we will not deny, but you ask which of us is our judgment, and on what ground we ought to establish our agreement, and our plan is that which is clear, and known by all the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u96	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u97	Yes, thank you. Well, apparently, you're familiar with the Eukong talk, but I was asking you to sort me out, I mean, is there an agreement with the Spanish Government? A different formulad: Is it possible to find an agreement with the Spanish Government? Is it possible, in some way, that a pact should be taken with the Spanish State, with the government, with all the facts we now see and see, which I have mentioned, with them on the table? We think we don't. We think that if we wish to make the Spanish Government move, the desde luego, the close way of making an agreement, the most sterile effort. We think that by pressure he may be moved to the Spanish Government. That the Spanish Government is to be moved by the inconpression of this people. We turn his back on him and show him to move. That the Spanish Government will be moved through the confederation. Sometimes we make this way here, and sometimes we come to some sort of agreement with EAJ, and try other regular proposals to show that confession, to prolong it constantly. What I want to know is what the government strategy is for this, and whether by agreement he thinks he will make the Spanish Government move for good, not as we have been used to it so far, for worse.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuaga, you have here given us a thorough and long explanation of what you think, but in the presence of what we think or what you think the reality is, whether you like it or not, that's where it is. And the reality of today is that the central Government is there with its political support, where the law lies, and, for instance, a prison policy, as prisons are, and as they are under control, it is very difficult to make it change by other means, as you say. But there's a lot of homework on our planet for peace and partnership. Among these domestic works there are many which have to be filled up by the central Government, such as are related to prison politics, and which, as you have said, are difficult to carry forward; but there are others which have a direct relation to you. What are commitments to the ethical ground? What are they doing? While the government of Madrid changes, we have something to do here. Steps, possibilities to be given, and you've got a lot to say. What is there in accepting ordinary penances? What's a self-critic thing about it? What, for instance, is there in this matter of confessing the unjust injury caused? We can make a lot of progress on that, too. They're all recorded in the Peace and Company Plan. And the Madrid government will change or it won't change its attitude, so will the government of MountoMadril shortly count its days and change will probably come, but here are your homework, and you've got a lot to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u100	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Laura Garrido Körr, made of Eplegus and the head physician of Polic society, not to be published about the friendships of social distress." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u101	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief of departments. Toña salilburua, lamba ha zuri zuzenduta dago. I think you'll answer me, and I think then it's your premiere in this rostrum. But it will be released to respond to a non-compliance, and that was told by the Lehendakari, about another intervention this morning, which never hears a mandate in this Parliament. We have to say that the Basque Government has again failed to comply with a parliamentary agreement. Gobernu honek berriro behera behera uzzi del Legebiltzarreko akordio bat. The agreement of 14 June 2014 to publish in January the order of the Employment and Social Affairs Adviser setting out the maximum amounts of the specific expenditure covered by the ESAs was not complied with. There is no justification for delaying the payment of this aid and failing to fulfil Parliament's mandate. They are timely aids to meet the most basic needs. Expenses as necessary as light, heating, water. That is why we want to know, from the People's Group, what approach has led the Government to fail to fulfil its parliamentary mandate in relation to the publication of the ESA order. What is the criterion that this government has followed to cancel this agreement?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u103	Chief of Parliament, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Indeed, you are right, Mrs. Garrido. The department has not been able, as requested by this Parliament and as was its wish, to approve the social emergency aid order in January. Our forecast, however, is to be able to present it for approval this same month of February. We have tried to shorten the times as much as possible, but there are four previous procedures that are difficult to fit in in a single month. In order to determine the criteria for granting social emergency aid, Mrs Garrido, it is first necessary to know whether there is any change in the inter-branch minimum wage, because the amounts are calculated on the basis of it. Secondly, we need to know the final budget available, in order to establish the allocation of amounts between municipalities. Thirdly, it must be submitted to the Interinstitutional Commission for Social Inclusion. And finally you have to submit it to the Office of Economic Control. All these circumstances, Mrs Garrido, and I am sorry too, have prevented the order from being published in January, but the deadlines have been significantly shortened with respect to the previous year, when they were published in April.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u104	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u105	Mr Lehendakari, therefore, this government – and I stick to the words of the Councillor, the new Councillor – ignores the mandates of this Parliament. Of course, it has not been diligent in complying with a parliamentary agreement dated 14 June 2014. No further delay can be allowed in such a sensitive matter, when it is essential to speed up the allocation of money to meet urgent and emerging needs. No more non-compliance, therefore. And the priority of this Government is clear that it is not the people who are having the worst of it. This money is basic for families who are going through a situation of economic scarcity. This Government must ensure that the protection system reaches those who really need it, and that the system is with those with whom it has to be. Unfortunately, this government is not with the real problems of the citizens, and we have seen it in this breach of the order of the ESAs. The inaction of this Government in this regard is clearly causing harm to families. Therefore, gentlemen of the Government, get to work. Mr Councilman, you have several duties with this Parliament. First, to fulfil the parliamentary mandates, which, as you have pointed out here today, have expressly acknowledged that the parliamentary mandate in relation to the order of the ESAs is not met. To correct once and for all the inefficient management of Lanbide, the inefficiencies detected, and that Lanbide actually meets the employability objectives it has mandated according to the legislation in force. And to put an end to the irregular and fraudulent situations, which exist and which we are unfortunately also familiar with every day, in relation to this issue. Issues that are bloody and that lead this Government to have to put in place the means to combat these irregularities that are there. And also explain, how not, counselor, what steps you are going to take in relation to this important department that you now have the responsibility to lead. And, why not also, explain the news that has appeared in relation to your person, which we have also known just the day after your appointment. Let us hope that you will respond promptly to all these questions, in an appearance that this group is of course going to ask for in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u106	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. On 23 December, Mrs Garrido, the budget was approved in this Parliament, where you were. And the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage was published on December 30. Without such data, any prior exercise of allocating resources to municipalities and setting amounts would have been incorrect, and it would have been necessary to correct it to the one of few dates. From there, the processing of the order has followed its administrative course, as quickly as possible. The Inter-Agency Commission for Social Inclusion met on 23 January. In compliance with that requirement, the order is sent to the Office of Economic Control for issuance of its report. These are the times that require their processing. In any event, since the reasons for the order for 2015 do not vary from last year, on 26 January (so before 31 January) the Director of Social Services sent an information circular to all social services of the social emergency aid managing bodies, which included, inter alia, the provisional budgetary allocation, as well as the initial clarification of such provisionality. In any case, we believe that advancing the information through a circular has allowed the municipalities to decide on the opportunity to move forward in the management of the applications or to leave them pending the adoption of the order, on the basis that they deem it appropriate. And with regard to the second question that you, Mrs Garrido, and other Members of this Parliament have drawn, you have no doubt that at the time I am required, or that I can do so, I will give a full explanation of everything that has happened and everything that I can know. And, of course, you will have the last word, and the lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u108	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interadelation, Member of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectoral Society, made to the Chief of Education, Language Policy, and Cultural Society, and Child Schools to adapt their licenses and quotas to the state of families." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u109	Yeah. Good morning, everyone. But until now, ma'am, we want to know whether the Board of Education will carry out the commission of the Parliament, because you have not yet fulfilled the commission of the legislature. We want to know what the Board of Education is planning on the Commission of the Parliament. On the 18th of June, 2014, the initiation of the EH Collect was accepted: as short as possible, adapting license license licenses to family status and needs, including the quotas of this public service adapting to family income and timetable needs, based on progressability, based on the basis of the upper quota limit now, and inserting intermediate hours in the current hours. Mrs. Uriart, your families are waiting for you. The families are waiting for you. Do you believe in the woman's execution? Fill out this errand. Do you believe in equality between people and families? Fill out this errand. Do you have the goal of 0-3 Baby Education to provide integral education for the smaller ones? Fill out the order. If you have all these targets, fulfill the goal, fulfill this commission. The children's school will thank you for it. The project is the same at stake. Until now they've filled up an important role in society, and they're filling it up, but times change, and as time changes, the need of families, of multiplicity, of state, must give them an answer, and that's why we're here to give answers. We, for instance, the Basque Country is clear, our goal is to be 0-3 p.m. but it is clear that we will not get it from one day to another, and that we must take steps, slowly, but always the family, considering the evolution of society, finally the most important and essential instrument that this society has to guarantee the equality of persons. And the 0-3, not to mention, completes a lot of purposes. That's why we're so worried, because we're seeing you're going in the opposite direction. Children's school budget is down to 2015. 3.215,000 euros. There's a shrink, a smaller budget. Quotas are extremely expensive: five hours' quota up to 160 euros and five hours, eight hours an hour, 208 euros. Tell me at the moment who can have access to the Child Schools with those quotas, tell me. Or what an effort the families must employ if they need this service. Then we have a precedent of 148 euros, and the families do not return, if they take it. Even the Bek system has nothing to do with the public networking system. There's always obstacles. So, Mrs. Greart, we don't understand why the license plates aren't based on family rents based on progress. Why not insert between these two hours an intermediate hour-table. It seems to us that there is a political will behind us, that all this may be adapted, that it may be flexibility, and that we may find harmony among all. So, what's the project of the Board of Education, together with the Presidency Committee of the Parliament, with a complete license and license of license in the Parliament, to adapt to the state of families and to their needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u111	President andrea. Ms. Ubera, first of all, with your permission, I will add to the information you give us some precise and objective data, so that we can all understand the situation in this legislature today. I'll start with the Partier School and the basic role of society. Since he started his career in 2003, 40,000 children have been the children who have received the services of the Parzier. Today, we have 231 children at Euskal Autonomia Er member and in this year we have 5779 children signed up in our children's schools. So we're talking about a very large and important service. In addition, the quality of the service here given is praiseworthy. From its origin, children's school has continued to grow and grow, not only by the number of schools, but also by those actions which have a direct relation to elasticity, equality, and equality, and the training and quality of teachers. The most obvious proof of this is the satisfaction of families. As we can see in the last study of ISEI-IVEI, the answers of families are, in a great majority, very positive, and expressed a high degree of satisfaction towards children's schools. Thus, a high or very high degree of satisfaction to the service received in Childland has been expressed by the 98,4 families. This percentage is like the percentage of families who have said that it would recommend their children's children's school (in this case, %98). These facts are very precise and very significant, and are available to all because they are published on the ISEI-IVEI website. We all know the way around here, I believe that we all agree with that level of education and support from the Baby Baby School, which is offered by the Partier school. You have praised a great work for yourself more than once, but that excellence, Mrs. Ubera, must be paid. And about this I will give another objective data: today, the amount of money that my parents pay by hand, in total, the Child School supposes 23% of the Parliament budget, all the other (that is, '77%a) is paid by the Euskion. On the other hand, you have to say that this fun hasn't made any quotas. I mean, we're still dealing with the quaots set in 2012, because we've been considering the current delicate situation. Since the first adoption of quotas in December 2003, there have been three increases. The first increase was approved in November 2007, the second increase was approved in November 2008, and the third increase in quotas was approved at the general assembly on 24 November 2011. As a result, increases in assessed contributions have been approved in the four mandates preceding this one. However, this Government, aware of the current economic situation of some families, has not made any increase in quotas, so that the quotas approved in 2011 remain in force. It should be added that, while the average share of haurreskolak has risen by 15 % since 2003, the CPI has risen by 26 %, according to INE data. Also, if we analyze the quotas in force in the State for the 0-2 years stage, we can observe that those of the Haurreskolak Consortium are perfectly aligned with the current trend, even below the average. To give us an idea, I will mention the quotas established in Navarre, Gijón, Barcelona, Madrid and Euskadi for an eight-hour service with a dining room, to make a comparison. In the case of Navarre, the quota is 335 euros; in Gijón, 327 euros; in Barcelona, 273 euros; in Madrid the quota is 446 euros, and in Euskadi, 288 euros. It is also important to note that in many cases there is no differentiation of quotas according to schedule. This fact makes the share of families who only need to make use of the service for half a day or a reduced day considerably increased. In our case, quotas are established according to the number of hours of service. In addition, this is of great importance, as only 40% of families in the Basque Autonomous Community use the full-day service. We have incomes to secure incomes and additional housing preparations that make us the most social community of autonomy. It's in our personality, the identity of this government. This government works for the person, in order to improve the efficiency of social services, facilitates society, and shuns the chromation of neglect. From this Illus, and returning Child Schools to the Courts of the Partian, I will tell you, that we have a lower quota than in other communities. Las quaotas vigentes en Euscadi para la andpa 0-2 soe inferores a la media estata. Nor can we forget that the Basque Government offers scholarships to families who use the Haurreskolak Consortium's service in order to reduce these quotas and that this service is accessible to as many families as possible. During the 2013-2014 course, scholarships were awarded to 360 families who make use of the haurreskolak service, which accounts for 8% of the total. I would like to stress that not a single family of those who have applied for the scholarship meeting the conditions for this has been left without it. In other words, all scholarships requested by families have been awarded. As for the average amount of scholarships, it is 900 euros per child. As a result, I can strongly state that this Government has made a clear bet, not only now, but from the first inter-institutional family support plan, for providing a service of the highest quality and accessible to most families in the first stage of early childhood education, even though it is not a compulsory stage of schooling. In May of last year we had the opportunity to present our point of view about the registration system of the Haurreskolak Consortium. It was then that we announced our commitment to explore the possibility of reviewing the current quota issue in order to move towards a system that would allow for income-based stalemate. This measure, in which we have been working since then, has its origin not in the decrease in the number of enrolments, as you try to show, but in the need to adapt to the current socio-economic reality of families. I would also like to make a point on this. We have heard them on numerous occasions criticizing the decline in enrolments, trying to show that this decline is motivated by the current system of enrolment, and especially by the contributions made by families. With your permission, I will take this opportunity to deny this cause-effect bond. It's true that the license plate has been down for years. That's undeniable, but it's true, too, that they can't put down that license plate on their fees or license terms. First of all, we must note that the rate of birth has been lowered for years. According to the report published by Eustate, the number of births has been visibly lowered from 2011 in Eucharal Autonomy Er-Hormia. So in 2011 21,180 children were born, 2012 20.533 and 2013 children 19.118. I mean, 2,000 fewer births in two years. They are children born in those years, children who can now be licensed in Parliament by child schools. And I'll tell you that the license license plate hasn't come down so much, because if we compare 2012-2013 and the modern study, we can only see that we've had less than 735 plates. On the other hand, looking at crude facts, it is clear that they are the only students who have descended from Child Education while education of the First Step and the number of students of the Second Education have gone up. Consequently we must find above all the principal reason of the descent of the quantity of birth, but there is another important factor, which may have a great influence on the number of licenses: this second factor has a direct connection with the crisis. I'm talking about unemployment. That is, as the rate of unemployment in the past years is higher, the number of families are more numerous who have the chance of keeping their children from their own hands, unfortunately because some member of the family is unemployed or because they want to raise their children in their homes. As you may understand, it is not possible to repair these two principal reasons of our low hand plate, but to offer a quality service to families who need it, and give facility in paying their services. Therefore, in order to adapt ourselves to the present situation and to the real needs, we are making a deep examination, following the engagement which we have received at the Board of Education in May, and what we have said in June, as well as in the legislature. At this moment, after receiving information and necessary data, we are examining them, in order to adapt the criteria and quotas to the needs of families to the education of the year 2015-2016.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u113	You're missing if you're going to answer it or not. You're working on it, but maybe you'll answer for the second round. We all know the history of Childeres, we have often talked about it, we have no complex idea of the role of Childeres in society, that they are filling up, and we are going beyond it, and what we want to do is to fill it. And this requires commitments, and others, besides examining this law of law, to observe and to observe, and to observe, besides well-considering and thoroughly, the work. This is where you put the number of squares on the table. We could talk about the number of squares, too, because it's in the budget that it offers... There's an 8-200-celling budget that fills five thousand and a few. We can look through it, and meanwhile we need a square in many towns to open children's schools and we don't open them. That way we could open another line of work. And I'm glad to tell you honestly and honestly, if the families do positive ratings. Another argument to facilitate more families to child schools. And, of course, the birth rate has also affected it, but even the pumpkins have affected it, because you said it yourself, the family situation isn't 2008, it's changing, now they don't both work in the same house or have very different family models, we've got monoparents... And, of course, you're telling me that maybe now there's some parents or parents to take care of the kids, and that's where we should draw conclusions. We ought to draw severe conclusions, and I don't like to hear that argument, if we're pushing her, especially if we're talking about raising the family and the work world, of course, in the middle of children's education. He only wants to ask you to do this fancy thing that you're doing, and besides acting as if you were doing it, please. Stop acting like a bitch. Stop being a hypocrite. Do it, do it! That's all we ask. The contradictory facts, yes, we know things aren't done right away, but we've been here for months, and even those months we've had to make decisions. We've seen in these decisions that the budget is down, so what do we have to think about? What are we supposed to think about when the Childhood budget is down? We'll just follow up and continue to do it because what we think we're asking is fair. Because it is fair for the different reasons: one, to guarantee the future of the children's school, to guarantee the possibility of families, a zero-3-a-and-a-half-a-and-half-a-half of education to offer to the younger, because we believe in the model which Child School offers the Partier. We believe, we believe, that it is of quality, and therefore we wish it to spread and reach as many as possible, and to integrate it into a public system in a future. That's what we want, but we know things can't be done from one day to another. But slowly, step by step, step by step. That's why I'd like to ask you to do it today, if you believe in the cohesion of society to fulfill it, and if you want to, please, excuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u115	Mrs. Ubera, calm down, we're on time and there's no excuse. Look out! The children's schools received the objective of the Partiers in the state agreed in 2003. Here it is said that the chief function of the Parthian system, the integral management of the childholes in the territory of the townships, and the care of education and assistance of the lower three years. In addition to this, the more exact purposes of these states are obtained. Thus Child Schools were created to promote a prevention of prevention, which, by the care and care given to families under the age of three years, will serve and be calculated by their differences. We go all the targets we have specified, adapting them to the situation they have been in at each moment, and it is time to adapt them to this new situation. That's what we're trying to find the best way out. But, as you can understand, there is not a single model or solution to the subject we are today examining. As I have advanced before, if we look into Europe, we find several distinct examples. For instance, in Belgium, there are subjugations for the plagues of the year 0-2, considering the income of families. There are trust rates in the Czech Republic, but the direction can establish exceptions to the situation. In Ireland they provide subsidies according to their parents' income, divided into three gaps. In Sweden or Norway we pay different quotas according to the amount of money which families have, and the number of their children. If we set our point of view in the State, we can observe that there are several autonomous communities, such as Madrid, Galicia or Navarre, that set different quotas according to the per capita income of the members of the family unit. As you can see, there are differences in the establishment of quotas between 0-2 children in most countries, depending on family capabilities. But I must say, in all European countries, except in Hungary, that in this childish education, the families pay a small part of the expense of the service, and we are on the side of that model. We agree to calm down quotas, considering family incomes. But we do not at all see that the Government has to bear the cost of service. In any case, there are several examples, and we are looking for a pattern better adapted to our reality. To do this, it's important to make a deep examination, considering the social and economic conditions, and all the data tyhromatricisation, the family's required subsidies, the family revenues, and so many other schools, should be considered as a whole, and we take care of them all. And this doesn't register for a moment, because, if you make wrong partial analysis, it's dangerous to take the wrong path, and the decision we're making now is because we're trying to establish the pattern we're making to the future. This government has always made a strong wager for the service offered to children of 0-2, considering and adapting themselves to the conditions of the necessary conditions which have always been at each moment. And that's what we're doing now. We're also asking for data from the family and the management of social development, and we're looking into all the information we've received. We'll have the exam finished soon. As a result, we shall soon present the Child Schools a new proposition to fit the dues of the Parthian system to the present and to the real requirements, in order to establish a yearly new criteria for their license.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u116	Translation system doesn't work. Excuse me, Miss Chief.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u117	Therefore, we continue to work to implement the department's commitment in May 2014, as well as the non-legislative proposal adopted in June. If we want to adopt the best solutions, the one that best suits our current socio-demographic and economic reality, it is important to carry out a thorough analysis of all the data in advance. That is precisely the work we are doing today and we hope to be completed soon. In this way, it is the intention of this department to make soon our proposal to adapt the system of quotas of the Haurreskolak Consortium according to the family income for the course 2015-2016. And we're on time. It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u118	Thank you, chief physician. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interression, myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Team of the Pogula, made of education, politics, and Cultural Division, representing the Director of EIB." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. We're still talking about ETB, counselor. And today, as I asked you here, you have no choice but to answer me. I say this because the last time I asked for your appearance in this House, then, in the end, you brought the director of EITB and you, explanations, gave rather few. I hope you'll answer more here today. Last week in plenary the parliamentary majority requested the Government to cease the Director General of EITB. And we ask for several reasons. It is true that in this intervention we focus primarily on one of them, because we did not want to divert attention, but that does not mean that there are no other reasons why we have requested the resignation of the director of EITB. And now I am going to make reference to all of them, which are well known, because on other occasions we have already done so. He said in this plenary of last week that EITB has been living, since the arrival of the lehendakari and Mrs Iturbe and her team, the worst moment in its history: facing management and staffing, papered reports, television hearings that do not take off, and a completely disastrous job management. And the first general strike that has experienced the history of Radio Euskadi, with one day, as I said, of absolute silence and seven days of almost general blackout. The truth is that it should be embarrassing, although it seems not, to have the workers protesting on the street one day yes and one day too. Protesting the violation of rights, because, although the offer of public employment was justified as a regularization of workers' rights, such regularization had already been done, there was nothing to regularize. The Labour Inspectorate had already said that they were entity workers because they were part of the entity's structural staff. A public job offer that – we made clear from the beginning – was quite contrary to a public job offer: it was a job destruction, no matter how much you want to sell (and I say so, "sell") as a job creation. And so the workers, as they destroyed their jobs, have resorted to justice. And also in justice there is the very offer of public employment, challenged by the State's Advocate. For this reason, we asked him at that time and asked him again now: What will happen if within a few months a judge ends up lying down the ERE and 79 people have the right to reintegrate, to be readmitted and to be paid their salaries? What are you going to do then? Who's gonna take responsibility? Who's going to face what's going to cost all that? What's going to happen then? Is another ERE going to be made? From the beginning, we said that this offer of public employment was an undercover ERE. In the end, it ended up being an ERE discovered, but once again, in that use of language, it is now said to be an "instrumental" ERE. Yes, instrumental is: it is the tool to throw people out of the street who have a working relationship with the entity. Because what it assumes is that 79 people who are EITB employees, thanks to that ERE, will stop being EITB employees. That's the instrumental ERE. And they've come to the easiest link, as I've said many times. Because now we're talking about sustainability of ETB, we're talking about rationalization... But why are only the needs of the radio analyzed? Why aren't TV also analyzed? Why don't you see all the producer expenses? Why don't you do an in-depth study? Because in that appearance to which I have referred I asked if you could make the radio with less personal and with the same quality as now. And, if so, is that applicable in other sections of the entity, or is it going to go to producers to keep doing the radio as it is doing right now? And what producers are you going to turn to? As I said, a disastrous management that has been censored by this House and by the workers themselves. Because not only have we asked for resignation from here: the entity's workers have also asked for the resignation of the director of EITB. We also ask for resignation, and it is also something we have made reference to on other occasions, by the direction the entity takes, by the contents that EITB has. Because these contents are basically reduced to the agenda of the nationalist groups: the Basque Nationalist Party, the Government and Bildu. In this way, as I have said many times, the right to decide, the new model of the state, the bilateral agreement with Madrid, the prisoners of ETA, are the subject of permanent debate, tomorrow, evening and evening, on all Basque public television programmes. The initiatives of the Basque Nationalist Party or Bildu, or the actions of the Government, are the mandatory reference. That's right, those of other opposition groups, either always appear in the queues of the news, or do not appear. Or, if they appear in the debate programmes, it is for us to become the pimpampum, always. Never at all that is favorable for non-nationalist groups. And I said, and I maintain it, this group maintains that we were concerned about the divorce that was being created between Basque society and the contents of EITB. And that divorce is real, and that divorce is reflected in the increasingly low audiences, because sectarian vision and partisan interests have supplanted the real concerns of the Basques in the contents of the news and in the debates. Because there's nothing more to go to the Sociometer. What concerns citizens is employment, economic recovery, and they are concerned that there is no scandal. And, of course, the scandals here never show up. The committees of inquiry in this Parliament are not dealt with. Outsiders do, those do. But that's what citizens are worried about. Citizens are worried about what EITB's daily agenda is at a much lower rate. And it is important that in a public channel all Basques, all citizens, regardless of their ideology, feel reflected, because it is paid for by all Basques, and because it is not possible that only some feel represented; that some spectators are first-class spectators and others are second-class spectators. The priority in the content and approach of EITB is not based on topical criteria, but rather on opportunity, but rather on political opportunity. And of political opportunity always of the same, of the nationalists. Because he's making an absolute drop in his job of reporting to go to indoctrination. And that is not possible, because a television paid with the money of all Basques cannot be a nationalist television for nationalists, because, as I have said on other occasions here, it is all those who pay for it: the nationalists, and the non-nationalists. The truth is that we do not have to wait for the elections, after the municipal elections, and that they present us with their new model of political status. If we have nothing more to do with EITB! That is their new model of political status, in which only nationalists have room. We non-nationalists don't fit in that model. And we have also called for the treatment of terrorism, which we have already talked about this morning in this House. And here it oscillates between cowardice and complicity. We find that the contribution that EITB makes to making a story about terrorism in which memory is a fundamental tool is a contribution that does not delegitimate terrorism. It doesn't delegitimate him. It is a contribution from the absolutely selective memory, which does not recognize the injustice of terrorism, or at least does not treat all terrorism equally. From EITB we look for any anniversary to justify the issue of a film, the production of a week of programming in EITB, the intervention of family members... when it comes to the LAG murders. That this group does not say that they do not have to be treated at all, but those anniversaries do not exist with the victims of ETA, which were much more than the victims of the LAG. It devotes an entire week to Lasa and Zabala programs. A whole week. We didn't need to see the film, because frame-to-frame we were watching it on ETB. However, not here, with the victims of ETA here that does not happen, in ETB that does not happen, and their treatment is infinitely inferior. Programmes or films such as "Asier eta biok" are broadcast to show the human face of a terrorist, but films such as that of 1980 by Arteta cannot be broadcast because, in the words of the director, it is sectarian. Is that delegitimizing terrorism? Is that a contribution to remembering and seeing what really happened? And then I'll talk more deeply about what we've already talked about here, about certain Tertullians, but I just want to ask you what the government is going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u120	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u121	President andrea. Mrs Llanos, if you think so, I will begin by answering the specific question that you have put to me in your statement. The purpose with regard to the Director-General of EITB, as already mentioned, is to continue to support her work, on a number of issues I will mention in the next few minutes, and because we must act responsibly. They criticize, but they don't propose. The real alternative is to continue to support, as hitherto, the work of EITB management. In any case, allow me to raise before this House before any other consideration a series of reflections that I consider to be of interest, lest the tree let us not see the whole forest. In the justification presented in relation to this interpellation, he talks about labor conflictivity, low audiences, the ideological line, or the lack of plurality, among other issues. In addition, the president of her party, Mrs Quiroga, recently told the media that the ERE in EITB is pursuing nothing but ideological cleansing. It is curious, really curious, Mrs Llanos, that, saying that (ideological line, bias in information and debates...), your parliamentary group coincides in your vote with parliamentary groups as disparate as the Socialist Group, UPyD or Euskal Herria Bildu. You surprise me, Miss Llanos: you vote for the same reasons, one thing, and the contrary, is criticized by Madame Iturbe. We know that this people is of great plurality, multiple in point of view, but it is a kind of attention to the fact that a man seeks to remove himself from his office in a subject which is accused of acting at the same time on excess and deficiency. The parliamentary parties of the 5th of February debates explained their attitudes, which are already known to us, and even more carefully did it, perhaps under the proximity of elections. You have a different thought, but the same aim: Trying to weaken the government, and gain evidence in the media. It may be permitted to do so, but it is clear what are the priorities. If it's okay with you, we'll settle down on a date we've talked about, April 29th, 2014. As has been said so often lately, the Council of EITB, that is to say, the highest organ, received the public calling of employment with the regularity of its workmen. I want to remind him again that all the parliamentary groups are represented in this council, except the Misted Group. As has been recalled so many times recently, on that day the board of directors of EITB (that is, its highest decision-making body) approved the call for a public job offer with the consequent regularization of the staff. Once again I will recall that all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Joint Group, are represented on that Council. Well, since the meeting approved a text that included the following, and I read literally: "The Board of Directors authorises the Directorate-General to hold a public call for employment for Eusko Irratia SA in order to definitively cover 49 fixed positions, which are considered indispensable to ensure the current and future needs of the production process, and to amortize 30 jobs, in the context of the process of regularizing the non-fixed indefinite". It was, therefore, to regularize 49 jobs, and to amortize 30. Black on white. What was the result of the vote? 70 % in favour, with the support of the advisers proposed by the PNV, also those of EH Bildu, although now they seem to say that they did not know what they had signed, and LAB, among others. And that no one is protected from the fact that there was no record of regularisation of employment as such in that text. We already know that this is due to a legal imperative imposed by the Supreme Court following the agreement of the board of directors. Only you, the PP, voted against that document. That's right. Twenty votes, only two votes against. I think it's best to remember. The EITB body therefore took a decision, and management has been responsible for carrying out this agreement, which was agreed by a large majority. On this subject, it is the Administration Council that accepts or invalidizes something rather than the direction. And this is so, but not because I say so, but because it is received in the law of the creation of ETB; in the article, exactly. Changing decisions and job lists about guarantees belong to the Administration Council. And so it is with this council that it is necessary to retire in a preponderating resolution. It is not in the hands of the Chief Director of EIB, that the Supreme Organs of that institution are to be admitted otherwise than by the decisions agreed upon; but the contrary seems to be intended to show in this discussion, in the interest above mentioned. This management has other functions, including dealing with the difficult situation of the media in general. As you well know, the audiovisual sector is in sectoral terms, behind the construction sector, the second most impacted by the economic recession that began in 2007. The media have not experienced a period of greater convulsion in their recent history than is currently being experienced. And to deal with this situation EITB has, in my opinion and that of this Government, an experienced professional team. A team that manages, with a decrease in its budget allocation, a quality information and entertainment offer, which Basque society has been demanding. EIB's direction has a professional profile. Just professional. It is a management of experienced professionals, capable of analysis and decisions, and engaged with public services. In that respect, as he insisted on, "Esquisk wants to show the Chief Director of EIB, my dear Iturbe, and his direction to the whole team." He protects his conduct, and observes it with good will, that the decisions of the Supreme Government should continue to be faithfully executed. And please, Mrs Llanos, do not talk to me about low audiences, because the PP is the main player in the audiovisual sector's failure. EITB's audience data is very satisfactory. On television it has closed 2014 with 13% audience. In second position in Forta, and with better behavior over 2013. On radio, EITB radio had in 2014 the third best audience data in its entire history. It is the first radio group in the Basque Autonomous Community. On the Internet it has reached 1,900,000 single users/month, with a growth of more than 20% over 2013. ETB is a leader in news audiences; EITB's generalist radio is also a leader in news and news prime time. The leadership of EITB's news and current programmes, particularly on radio and television, is supported above all by its professionalism and plurality, with a balanced presence of political sensitivities in the various programmes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u123	Thank you again, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, the trick that we agree on different party votes, and that is why it seems that the decision has less validity, is well known. It has been used in this House and in other chambers on many occasions. The reasons for voting what was voted on here last week, to request a cessation, may be different, but the fact is that the majority of this House and EITB workers do not support EITB management. That's the result! And I'll tell you, man, it hits that something that's not worth it here is worth it in other institutions. Because the Gipuzkoa General Councils called for the cessation of a deputy, each for a few reasons, but called for the cessation of a deputy. And the Basque Nationalist Party immediately said that, as requested by the General Councils, it had to cease. I mean, what's worth there, it's not worth here. And in this very House we had to hear last week, in connection with another debate, that the government delegate was imbued because he did not comply with this House, because he did not comply with the requirements of this House. He is no longer the delegate of the Government: the Basque Government is imbued with what is decided in this House, and fails to do what this House decides. It's an immeasurable government, which doesn't give a damn what's said here. It doesn't matter exactly. Because what is good is the result of the vote, Mrs Uriarte, not the reasons that lead to that vote for anyone. It is the result of the vote, which all by majority called for a change in the direction of EITB. And I told him what the reasons for the People's Party were. Several, yes. One, the job management you've done. Bad. Because he says it's the board's responsibility. Yes, he voted on the board of directors, it is true, and also, as he said, we voted that not from the beginning, but who took him to the board of directors? Because it didn't happen to the board of directors all of a sudden, huh! Someone had to carry that OPE, which was sold as a job creation, which then was to destroy the employment of people who were part of the entity's structural staff by mistakes from previous directions, not by the responsibility of the workers themselves. And also now with pending lawsuits on account of that decision, which can cost the entity money. An entity that already sees its revenue squandered, and the hearings also, because we are leaders in news, but, listen, we pass the hearings every day! That's right, they tell us, "The parameters are met." Man, all you have to do is lower the parameters." If in one year it goes from 100 to 150 and we stay in 90, that's it, for the next year I go from 50 to 100, and I've done it. Don't cheat on me, because in the rest the hearings are getting lost. And of course it's a nationalist television for nationalists! If that's it, come on, I think it's something so obvious it doesn't deserve any more discussion. No discussion. And that there's a balanced treatment... Hey, really. There is no balanced treatment at all. That you give minutes to all the political parties? Yeah. Why each political party, depending on whether it's from one spectrum or another? Also. Very different. Because in one it is to exalt the right to decide or to sell the work of the government, and the other is the sparring, the pimpampum always. And I told you once: for that, you can stay with the minutes that correspond to the People's Party. And then there's the treatment of terrorism. Look, I didn't have time before because the questions are more limited, but Mr. Zubimendi, what is it that they sold him as a journalist from Gara! No way! That he was a terrorist, and that he was in charge of exalting terrorists! And he said of the murder of Gregorio Ordóñez that it was the sinking of the flagship of Spanish fascism in Euskal Herria! That of Aldaya said that what the whole society thought was that it had to pay, and point! And you come here to say that you are not responsible for Zubimendi being, and we have to hear on the board of directors, when this Member asked, that she was already going to look at it. What are you gonna look at? What does EITB's address have to look at? What do you have to look at, if it's okay or wrong for Mr. Zubimendi to be here? No, I should have said from the minute one, "I think it's wrong that it is, and it's not going to happen again." But no, her answer is "I have to look at it." Well, someone from... Yeah, yeah, he said, "I have to look at him." And it's in the record. "I'll look at it."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Llanos, it's over. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u125	The reasons are, of course, important, especially if they are contrary. I mean, we also have to be responsible. And I assure you that this government will act with responsibilities, so I want to explain to you that this government will not leave EIB without a head, Mrs. Llanos, that would be irresponsible. The conduct which he knows well of experience and media must be confirmed in the public institution, the direction which he conducts with strict severity and independence of the EIB's career, and the present direction assures us that he is in love with Iturbe. I told you a little while ago, you exasperate changes, but you don't propose anything. I don't know what you want for EITB. Now more than ever a good and professional management must be secured, and it is more necessary than ever to rethink the steps to which EIB's continual improvements should be made, even from the interior of the organization. We all want EIB to continue its leadership route on this network of more and more complex media. It's an institutional responsibility to run information and make a public offer on radio, TV, and internet, and a series of youths. This has the essential public service character. I would like to reiterate that this Government is going to act responsibly. In this respect, Mrs Llanos, I would like to say to you that this government is not going to lead the EITB. It would be irresponsible. We must guarantee a public entity with an experienced leadership and a knowledge of the environment, a leadership that rigorously and independently manages EITB's trajectory, and all this guarantees us the current leadership, with Maite Iturbe at the head, bad that weighs him. I told him a few minutes ago: they demand changes, but they don't propose anything. I don't know what scenario you'd like for EITB, but I think we're light years away. Today, more than ever, good professional management and the need to rethink, also from within EITB, the necessary steps that must be taken in the continuous improvement of the entity. We all want him to continue on his leadership path, in an increasingly complex media environment. The Basque Government has an institutional responsibility to manage the right to information and to have a public offer in Basque and Spanish of television, radio and internet channels. All this has an essential public service character. I would just like to point out one point, to conclude. Parliament is the home of the word, it is the forum in which the different opinions have room, at least in theory, because I still do not understand that we are discussing this issue without having heard it before. The Director General of EITB asked to appear publicly to analyze this issue, the appearance had an assigned date, but was not interested to wait until that day. Would something have happened if this debate had been delayed for a few days until his speech had been heard? Nothing would have happened, but I wasn't interested. The only objective of this action has been to try to wear down the government through EITB, once again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interfection, the members of the Medical Department of the Medical Department, the current state of the Dermatology Hospital at the U.S. Blanca Roncal Azanza Sozia Socialists." Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u127	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Chief, good morning to all of you. Counselor, today will be the third time that we have considered what happened in the Dermatology Service of Txagorritxu, because we asked him in March, we asked him in October – an inquiry that could not be sustained – and we ask him again today. Why do we insist so much on a topic that seems very local, and theoretically smaller? Well, look, because it affects your conduct as a counselor and the conduct of your management teams, a conduct that really does not match the requirements and values of the Code of Ethics, and let's point out in what. Look, you intervened by paralyzing the final phase of a court that judged the coverage of Dermatology's head of service. You prevented the court from appointing one of the two aspirants with that intervention; it is true that both with sufficient merit, but one with a higher final qualification and, therefore, aspirant with legitimate expectations to be appointed head of dermatology service of HUA. You, without cause or competence for it, intervened. Do you know what that's called? Improper and inadmissible conduct. Of course, I guess you won't try to set an example for the rest of your department's staff as to how to act by complying with the ethical code of good conduct and good governance. Here we talk about integrity and excellence. Anyway, I'm not going to tell you all the content of the inquiry and previous questions, because you already know what it's about. In fact, you are so aware of your improper and unacceptable conduct that you have tried, in your replies to Parliament, to avoid your personal responsibilities, masking them in a political environment (change of government, prudence and caution), when you know that this has never been or is never a reason for your action. So you are aware of how improper your conduct, which you lied to Parliament in your reply of 28 March, saying that you had just joined the government. Man, he took possession of the 17th, and this performance was done on the 21st. It's been a few days, it's been a few days since it's been incorporated into the government. And the day you intervened to paralyze the courts was just being held that court. His call paralyzing the courts only affected the court of Dermatology. And then he masks it by intervening in other courts that were not constituted and that, therefore, had no affect. And you again lie to Parliament in the reply of 28 March. And you know what? Look, you say you were asked for instructions on this. But who asked you for instructions? You don't give any names! No department manager asked or wrote any instructions to him. And we know why that is false: because in court you have also been asked what instructions you had, and you have not been able to submit any written instructions. All he has presented is the answer he gave to Parliament and a letter sent to him by the doctor who was harmed by his decision, of course after the decision. In no way can that be claimed as a cause for intervention, the doctor's writing! Therefore, the question is how this decision can be taken without prior report, without legal advice (because you have legal advice team!), without legal advice, and without a written request from anyone responsible in these areas. And how can this decision be made and then disagree with it and do nothing, not follow up, without demanding anything as an answer. In fact, from this, it is perfectly clear from this sequence that his direct intervention was no longer necessary in the next steps. The next steps would be made by the team. You had already done what was necessary, suspending the court. Then came the management team already from their confidence in the HUA, who continued the abuses. And the question is what interests this participation was to. Of course, not in the public interest. Therefore, Mr Darpón's first conclusion: his intervention had no legal or ethical motivation, and was absolutely arbitrary. You know perfectly well what happened and what it was about. Only, what it was all about was paralyzing the court. You were asked for a single performance, you'll know who asked for it. And you agreed. It was only a matter of paralyzing the court of Dermatology, the only one that was being held when you made your call, which was then masked by paralyzing other courts that were evidently neither constituted nor assembled. And what were the consequences of his intervention? You lie once again when you say at judicial and parliamentary level, in written reply, that the suspension in no case was administrative or legal in nature, but that you only obeyed those reasons of caution, of change of government..., and that afterwards the rest of the proceedings were conducted normally and within the competence that each organization has attributed. Hey, if it wasn't administrative, what did it have? Was it political? It makes it worse for me, Mr. Counsellor: an entire adviser to the Basque Government, putting his hand in and getting involved in a selective project. And then he says it didn't have any effects. Well, look, the next consequence was – as we have already said, the action of its new HUA management team – that a resolution was then issued declaring the call to be abandoned. And he says that then all the acts went on normally. Of course, his normality. That is, in accordance with the interests of those who had asked him and urged him to paralyse the selection court. Without her intervention, the court would have concluded its proceedings by proposing as head of service the person who with more curriculum, merit and score had reached the final stage, which was Dr. Almeida, who was thus eliminated. Dismissed. Look at what administrative and legal effects! By the way, read again the Code of Ethics, especially the aspect of favouritism, to see compliance. You have to realize that your intervention has led to blatant discrimination against Dr. Almeida, who had a legitimate expectation and aspiration to the head of Dermatology service. Finally, his intervention allowed the third and final act: to appoint the second candidate as head of service in merit and capacity. And here I ask you, do you think it is illegal to appoint the second candidate as head of service – it is true that temporarily – without respecting the principles of equality, merit and capacity? Because in the end that's what happened. Because by defending himself in an alleged urgency, and by the back door, he has been appointed head of service the second seeker in merits to the post. Although the urgency referred to would not be justified if this appointment had been made without publicity and without complying with the principles of merit and capacity that we have mentioned. Because do you know how this appointment was made? Investing in merit priority, violating the Equality of Women and Men Act, and harming the hospital. Because you know that competition and preparation are essential for a university hospital. Knowing that Dr. Almeida was the only candidate of the service who held the title of doctor, that is not the way to act of a management team that must ensure that the university hospital meets the requirements required by law to have the capacity to be a university hospital. As you know, university hospitals have regulated the requirements for consultation with universities, and these requirements are regulated in a law. Concerts signed with the university require that clinical services be provided by well-prepared and trained people for teaching. And you will tell us how, having in HUA among the medical cadres few doctors, and in dermatology only one doctor, this new appointment helps to prevent HUA from meeting its requirements to reach the category of university hospital. Finally, the sum of decisions taken by your HUA team, preventing the appointment of Dr. Almeida, has a rating. Do you know what that's called? Discrimination, nepotism, misogyny. In short, violation of rights. I conclude my intervention by asking you, given all the interventions in this case, starting with yours and following with those of the management team, as I do not have time, to immediately reinstate Dr. Almeida to the post to which she was never to be denied access.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Good afternoon, Mrs. Roncal. How many times are you going to ask me about this thing? I sent you my last answer a couple of weeks ago, and nothing has changed since then. You know very well that for asking a thousand times answers do not change. Look, on March 28th, I already answered a question you asked about the process of selecting chiefs at the University Hospital in Álava. I don't know if you're really interested in the subject. Do you have friendship with someone, or do you just want to sow doubts about the project of hospital unification in Álava? In any case, we are already overly accustomed to this type of intervention; therefore, I am not going to go into the disqualifications, which I believe speak of you alone. On the other hand, you forgot to ratify your last question, and I had to answer you in writing. That's why I answered in writing. Since the beginning of the legislature this department and this government have turned to materializing the hospital unification in Álava, to equip the alaveses and alavesas of the tertiary hospital pointero that they need and deserve and that fortunately looks little like what we find. The bakke hospital project is considering the patient. He's planning health support on the bracken, he's planning on a large opportunity of service, and he's planning to deal with future shootings. With regard to the specific process for which you are interested, I would like to make it clear to you that the information I provided to this Parliament almost a year ago, on the basis of a request from you, was exhaustive, truthful, and, as much as you ask and ask, that this is the way we have the whole legislature, it is the same one that I am now going to give you again. In the first place, I will explain to you what is founded on the establishment of the chief-at-arms, the supply under the law. Firstly, let me set out the criteria on which the provision of leadership in Osakidetza is based, in addition to its findings. Act No. 8/97 on health care in Euskadi regulates in its third chapter the staff regime, and it is specifically in article 28 that the competition shall constitute the ordinary system of access to a functional post and of secondment to a destination. It also provides that each invitation to tender shall be made public. You will be able to take part in it the fixed staff belonging to the corresponding category, doctor or not (we are not for inventions today in this forum, you review the university law), and you will determine the functional positions and the destinations covered, as well as the scale of merits applicable for your award, without prejudice to the other requirements laid down in the current regulations. It therefore requires publicity and guarantees equity. The Euskadi Health Management Act is supplemented by Decree 186/2005 regulating the functional positions of the public body of Osakidetza. These are identified and characterized, among other aspects, by the professional profile required, the mode of provision and the retributive effects. Also, in the present case, the provision of health services. This decree also determines, as it cannot otherwise be, that it is the competition in the terms set out in the Health Ordination Act. To a greater extent, in this legislature the Director General has published Instruction 6/2014, which sets out the criteria for merit scales to be observed in the calls for the provision of positions of head of service and health section. This instruction, which completes the existing legislation, seeks maximum transparency, Mrs Roncal, in any selection process. Because transparency is one of the guides of this Department of Health. Therefore, the provision of all service chiefs in Osakidetza is carried out according to criteria of legality. As you know, Mrs. Roncal, all the jobs on the board are provided according to the legal criteria of which I have just explained to you. In the case of which he is so concerned, he did not suspend any summons or act of an administrative nature of legal effect. I'll tell you again, Mrs. Roncal: I, the chief physician, had not abandoned any summons. I did not commit any administration. The supply processes in Osakidetza were developed and developed in accordance with the aforementioned regulatory framework and within the competence that each service organization has attributed, whether it likes it or not. Postponing through a high office of yours (because you were appointed from the previous legislature) temporarily the court celebrations in the periods of change of administration (as you very well said, seventy-two hours after my appointment, and when you had only one secretary to set up the new Department of Health), and in the case of Osakidetza the new direction of the public body, is a logical and prudence-based decision that anyone can understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u130	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u131	Counselor, how bold ignorance is! Look, everything you have said does not correspond or have been ratified by the judge. Because, look, I have a sentence here... Because, first, it has been a shame to have to resort to Dr. Almeida's justice to defend her rights, but it is that the judge gives Dr. Almeida the reason and contradicts exactly everything you have said, that she has told many things in general about what is Osakidetza, what is the regulation, but nothing about what has happened with the court of Dermatology. And what happened in the Dermatology court is that. Look at you, says the judge that your performance and that of the rest of Osakidetza, of directors... , which have acted with "deviation of power" is called. Do you know what that power deviation is? I do not say this, says the judge in his judgment: "Vice of the administrative act which consists in the exercise by a public administration body of its powers or powers for purposes or objectives other than those which served as a pretext for granting it that power." It is set out in section 63.1 of the Law on Common Administrative Procedure and Procedure. Talk to your legal team. The judge is frankly severe in his sanction for the administration's action. It is up to you to stop the administrative act, and you say that not even out of prudence or caution should be suspended or paralysed. And the judge continues to criticize the rest of the proceedings, also that of the court for having agreed to submit to pressure and, when it was at the final stage, not having completed its tasks. And then it says that of the managing director declaring a place deserted when it had not been proposed by the court that was judging the summons. Because the manager can't get a decision out of hand that hasn't been a result of a proposal from the qualifier court, and that's what all the legal teams know. "As a result of her actions," continues the judge, "a serious injustice has been committed with Dr. Almeida." And finally the judge decides that he estimates the appeal filed by dona María Victoria Almeida Call against Resolution 1364/13, of the managing director of the HUA – today ceased – in which he agrees to leave the call for the provision of the post of head of service of Dermatology, and that that resolution is annulled because it considers not adjusted to the law the administrative performance. "And we declare," says the judge, "that the appellant, dona María Victoria Almeida Llamas, is the one selected by the court and must be considered her proposal for appointment by the appropriate authority." Mr. Counsellor, apart from the legal sanctions the judge imposes on him in this sentence, I ask him: do Osakidetza workers have to go to justice to defend their rights? Does this seem to you to be a correct performance, you and your managers, an example of how things should be done? Look, follow and enforce the values and principles of the Code of Ethics. Above all, there is one who says that they will avoid any practices and actions that are affected or that may raise any suspicion of favouritism to certain individuals or public or private entities. And in this case it smells, it has a terrible tuff to favoritism, because the court had valued two contestants, an end with greater merit and capacity, and you do everything possible to eliminate that to name the second candidate. What does that sound like to you? Finally, what I ask you to do, I say again, is to demand, comply with and enforce the Code of Ethics, and above all to demand that Dr. Almeida be reinstated, that the damage caused be repaired, as required by the sentence. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u133	Look, Mrs. Roncal, under no circumstances have you questioned me about any sentence. The least you can do is to have responsibility and respect for the procedures of this Parliament, an institution to which you are part of the Bureau. A sentence that if you have read it, because I, too, will know that it is not firm, because appeal is available. On the other hand, the reference you have made to the workers is very good. I will now send you in writing all the labor sentences against Osakidetza in the previous period and in the previous period, and in the previous one, because we are not perfect. I will repeat to you again what I said to you in the first intervention, which I think you have not heard me say: temporarily delaying the holding of selection processes in the change of administration is an interim measure, and does not imply any alteration of the regulatory framework established for the selection procedures. Never has it changed, nor has it been twisted, the basis of rule set for process by the selection of the heads of the members of the community. Not while I was chief of health. You're talking to me about an appeal by a worker to a resolution by a director-manager of the unceasing HUA, but retired, Mrs Roncal (retired, retired by age; you talking about lying), for declaring a place of chief of service deserted. However, Mrs Roncal, as you insist, I will give you some information so that it can be clarified for the rest of your ladies and gentlemen, who do not know as much as you do or I do the procedure. Look, the autonomic elections were held on 21 October 2012. After the elections, in six weeks eight health chiefs were convened at HUA: on October 31, four; on November 9, another; on November 21, another; on November 27, another; and on December 10, one week before I took office, the eighth. The one you're talking about on November 27th. I do not think that much more needs to be said, except that this councillor has neither intervened nor will intervene in any court or in any supply process, and that, of course, the leadership of the HUA acted with extreme diligence at the end of the previous legislature. You're trying to raise a purely contentious-level theme, a manager's resolution, and I'm not going to get into that game. And I'm going to tell you more: Dr. Almeida, with whom I worked while I was the medical director of that center and to whom I replied to a personal letter, deserves all the esteem and all the training, because I'm not the one who chooses the chiefs of service. The current Department of Health and the management of Osakidetza are to ensure the health of Basques and Basques, to ensure that Osakidetza continues to be the reference service that it is today, and to continue to provide people with accessible, universal and quality public health care. And even though you've been trying to distract me from the whole legislature, I'm not going to miss the goal. I'm so sorry. I didn't come here for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u134	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Hemerial point in the subject list: "The question is, the members of the Post Office of Sister Saraz Basque Socialists to the head of the Medical Department, the depreciation of the finances under Fagor." Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u135	Bai, that's what we're talking about. Counselor, let's see if we keep distracting you a little bit. The issuance of subordinate financial contributions as a financing instrument for cooperatives derives from a law passed in this Parliament, the Cooperatives Act 1993, which was amended in 2000. Article 57.5 of the Act states that subordinated financing is considered to be those received by cooperatives which, for priority purposes, are located behind all common creditors. It says that its expiry will not take place until the settlement of the cooperative has been approved. Therefore, and in accordance with this Article, the issue of Fagor's subordinated financial contributions was made with a deadline for approval of the winding-up of the cooperative, i.e. that the winding-up of Fagor Electrodomestics should result in the amortisation of the subordinated financial contributions. Counselor, on 4 June 2014 you state in a written reply that Kontsumobide is defending the interests and rights of consumers holding Fagor's subordinate financial contributions, as set out in the Consumer Status Act 6/2003. It is agreed that, on this date, the holder of the San Sebastián Commercial Court No. 1 approved the final liquidation plan for Fagor Electrodomésticos and Edesa. Since then, almost nine months have passed to date, and there is still a lack of definition of the amortization of subordinate financial contributions that the law fixes and links with the liquidation of the cooperative. The holders of Fagor's subordinated financial contributions have not only lost all their money, but the banks continue to charge them for custody of securities whose value is zero and which have been suspended for two years. That is why we ask him: What is the Basque Government doing in defence of the people affected by Fagor's subordinate financial contributions in order to define the amortization of the securities, which the law fixes and links with the liquidation of the cooperative?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u137	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning again. Lady Sarasia, I'm going to reach the question she's asked directly, because the government is doing everything that's in her power at first, even now and in the future. Mrs Sarasua, do not doubt that the government and Kontsumobide are doing everything from the beginning, absolutely everything in their hands. The first thing we did, logically, was to get in touch immediately with the Fagor competition administration, as you know, appointed by judicial authority, so as to know what the persons concerned could do as creditors. Immediately afterwards Kontsumobide informed all these people individually. Thus, I will also tell you that as a government we have been working in coordination for months, Kontsumobide and the Tax Directorate, through the Tax Coordination Body, to promote solutions or, at least, improvements for these AFS holders of Fagor who have not listed since October 2013. And we're also working with the banking entities. A work that has already borne some fruit, and in fact the Bizkaia Foral Diputation has approved a special treatment for these cases. And we know that the outlying institutions of the rest of the territories are moving in the same direction. As you see, therefore, we are vigilant and active from the first minute of the process on all fronts where we can act, doing at every moment what we understand is best. The best, of course, as far as possible, for the interests of the persons concerned and respect for their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u138	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u139	Counselor, I have listened to you carefully, but you have not told me anything new. You will acknowledge, Mr. Counsellor, that the Euskadi Cooperatives Act was amended to allow subordinated financial contributions to be issued as a financing instrument for cooperatives; that Fagor Electrodomésticos entered into tender with creditors in October 2013, and that its assets were then valued at EUR 800 million. In April 2014 the competition administration valued these assets at 275 million, and finally in October 2014 it is awarded to Jata for 38 million euros. You will acknowledge, Mr. Counsellor, that on 4 June 2014, the judge issued a decree setting out the approval of Fagor's liquidation plan; that, according to the law, the subordinate financial contributions had to be amortized by that date as well. However, none of that has happened. Mr Councilman, Fagor's financial contributions are suspended in the National Securities Market Commission, but they are still in force, even if their value is zero. Financial institutions continue to charge custody costs, and those affected continue to pay for securities that are worthless. And Kontsumobide, what has he done in his defense? According to you, what's in your hands. What is true, Mr Councillor, is that this Parliament has legislated, that Fagor has issued subordinated financial contributions worth EUR 185 million, that the National Securities Market Commission has given the approval, and that the banking institutions have placed these securities on people with a certain profile, and it is precisely these people who have lost all their money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u141	You will acknowledge, and I will acknowledge, Mrs Sarasua, that it is difficult to say something new in subordinate financial contributions. Look, we're also in favour of bankers not charging people who own Fagor's subordinate financial contributions, but it's legal. As you know, although we agree, since Kontsumobide we have contacted the banking institutions, at the moment in this area without success, but it is legal. From the minute one we have carried out a close and thorough follow-up of the process. We have done so in order to be able to inform the people concerned with clarity and rigour. We have done so to articulate all those measures that could protect your interests, and in any case, cushion the impact of the problem, which I share with you, but you will understand that we have not generated the problem of Fagor's bankruptcy. And, of course, make it clear that we have not lowered the guard or are going to lower it. As so far, we will continue to do everything in our hand at every moment. So we did everything that was in our power, we did it, and we'll keep doing it, considering we're always in the face of a court ruling. I insist, we do and we will do everything in our hand, but, we must not forget, we are faced with a case that is in the hands of the Fagor competition administration, you like little or nothing (and me, with you, little or nothing), but it is in the hands of the Fagor competition administration, because this has been determined by a judicial body of those who so much like your party partner. So we have done, we do, and we will continue to do all that is in our hand. That is to say, to seek out all possible solutions for the rights of men, we never forget that we are men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u142	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Blanca Roncal Azanza Basque Sozialists to the chief physician of the Medical Department, an incident which the chief physician of the Medical Department thought to have with a medical agent." Mrs. Roncal is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u143	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideak, yellow sailburu. Again to bother you, because it seems that Parliament is an annoying distraction for you. Okay. Look, on 5 February, all trade unions issued a complaint with respect to an attitude you would have had with a trade union representative. This accusation referred to that, taking advantage of a visit of the health counselor along with the lehendakari to the center of Viacrucis... [[Barres]] ..., from Biocruces the day before (it was apparently a viacrucis), workers' representatives protested against the policies of his department. According to this version, the counselor faced one of the union delegates and insulted him. This version has been denied by your department. She was not present and therefore follows the descriptions of both parties. The truth is that this situation did not seem strange to us either, because it was in its context very similar to a moment of tension last October, reflected by all the media, between the lehendakari and trade union representatives, again sanitary, who had taken advantage of another public act to realize their demands. That is why we are asking for clarification. In the previous incident, of which there was graphic testimony, my group requested clarification from the Lehendakari, who, facilitated by our initiative, was able to apologize publicly. On this occasion, we would not want the absence of graphic and media testimony to be an excuse to conceal a similar incident. On the contrary, and without prejudging, because we only have two opposing versions, we ask you whether on February 4 you had any confrontation or attitude towards the union representatives who were protesting at Cruces and who might require an apology.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours. Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u145	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok. Roncal anderea, you know it is a pleasure to deal with you, especially outside the parliamentary arch. [[Berber]] On February 4, I had no attitude towards the trade union representatives who supposedly protested at the present holy Hospital de Cruces, since that day I did not become a witness to the alleged trade union protest. Neither I nor the lehendakari, nor any of the people who participated in the act saw the union protest, if it happened. Before any other consideration, I would like to make it clear publicly that always, I have always shown the utmost respect for the workers of Osakidetza, since I was a counselor, when I was a manager and when I was a worker of Osakidetza. And also by their union representatives. They've always had all my respect for members of the Osalome as well as their syndicate representatives. They've had it and they'll have it. First of all, I'd like you to make that clear, so no one can doubt, because that's the way it is. Trade union work and the representation of workers'rights are legitimate and important work, which the Councillor and the Government as a whole have always respected and will respect. On 4 February, specifically in Biocruces, lehendakari, the Councillor for Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture, and the Rector of the University of the Basque Country, among others, we had an interesting and very satisfying meeting with the Scientific Director of Biocruces, with the coordinators of the seven strategic areas that I research, with researchers and with some of the former hospital managers, during which the researchers were able to explain their projects to us. I was able to see and enjoy a group of professionals very excited and motivated by the reinforcement and success that accreditation – of which I am sure you are pleased – by the Carlos III Institute means for Biocruces and researchers. Know, as you know, our already acquired acreage has led us to acquire a specific fund to protect our investigators and their study. I would also like to point out, to make it clear, that I did not disrespect any of the workers' representatives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u146	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u147	I am very pleased with your intervention, both in tone and in substance. Indeed, if you have not disrespected any worker, I accept it perfectly. I have no doubt that it will be so. And, as you also know, I congratulate you on the fact that Biocruces has completed its viacrucis and can effectively develop as a research institute. I am not a trade union representative, and it is not the job of this Parliament to replace the framework of relations between the Administration and its workers, but you will be tired of hearing from my group that this Government has a serious problem of dialogue with the trade union representatives of public employees. And we are not surprised that such incidents may occur, because in fact they have happened in the past, and even the lehendakari apologized on one occasion, as we have reminded him before. It is that this is a government that has achieved what has never been seen: to unite all the unions against it. This also happens in the health area. If it were a mere problem of labor relations, we wouldn't worry, beyond whether a counselor might or might not disrespect or lose his nerves at a certain time. What we are deeply concerned about is what is happening with the deterioration of labour relations, because it does not allow us to address any necessary reforms, and this affects the provision of services. Thousands of workers depend on Osakidetza and his department. What you are able to channel with them, with their representatives, will depend on the quality of the service to which citizens are entitled. Whether you are unable or not, it will depend on whether you pass into history as the counselor who damaged one of the crown jewels of the Basque self-government, such as the public health system, which I hope will not happen. We told him in the plenary of general policy. You cannot be surprised at the degree of conflict in the public sector. They can't do it, because they've been beating it to the wrist. They have won the distrust of their necessary interlocutors at once.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u149	Mrs. Roncal, you're right. I would be happy to have no conflict in the health sector. On the other hand, as an acquaintance of the environment, who is, you know that conflictivity has not come alone in this legislature, you have not come alone in the previous one, you have not even come alone since the five years of wage freeze that we have had. Not even. For me it would be and is the most important task to try to have an employment agreement with the workers and not continue to extend the agreement that is being negotiated in 2006, but you will recognize that the circumstances, regardless of the greater or lesser capacities of this humble counselor..., are not the situations excessively easy. But in any case, you also know that my aspiration is not to go into history, eh! Be sure you don't, not for good or bad. On the other hand, and to conclude with what it was, you have no doubt of my consideration for the trade union representatives and for all the workers of Osakidetza. It's one of my top considerations. I had to apologize more than once in my life, like everyone else, and I wouldn't have any trouble doing it again if I failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u150	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Igor lópez de Muuninza EH Collectors to the Chief of Environments and Regional Politarian Politarians, about the pushing of the airport for Foron." Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u151	Yes, thank you. In January 28, Ana Pastor, Minister of the Spanish Government, met with Chief Ana Oregi, and spoke of the future of the Forums. Back of the meeting the Minister announced a series of investments from AHT. But they didn't say a word about the Forums in the diary between us. That's why I want to ask you this question. Is the airport working to be re-equiet and competitive again?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u152	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u153	Yes, ma'am. Congressmans, chief physician, good morning. The meeting at 28, and the visit of the minist, was not of the Foron, but, as you know, the State Administration, the Ministry of Sustament, and the Acquares are exclusive headlines in their infrastructure. This government has conducted a strict examination of the Eukadical airport system, called the Eskadian Airport Management Plan, and has been headed for the airport co-ordination committee recently formed. This commission is formed by the State Administration, the Basque Administration, and the Social Institutions. It's important to repeat that this fun isn't even the headline and jurisdiction of those three airport-terminals, and that it's also rejected from the decisions that are taking up the Ministry and Aena. Anyway, we've also come to propose a partnership agreement, by order of management, to take up PIF's management and cost, because, in our opinion, it's an indispensable service to increase the activity of the airport charge. The State Administration hasn't even accepted that proposal for co-working, government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u155	The lehendakari spoke before about his way of doing politics, about the agreement to the pact. There have been several agreements in this House concerning the defence of Foronda: there is no commitment to comply with them, there is no political commitment on their part to comply with them. You were photographed with Ana Pastor on 28 January, he says just to talk about the VAD, that the meeting only concerned the VAD. This was not reflected at least in the news, nor in the meaning of that meeting, nor in what they had spoken of. Smiled, that day they made public an agreement to reach that pact, that is, the fulfillment that in 2019 there would be TAV. Of Foronda, which was supposed to be another subject to be dealt with, and we understand that it might have been in the event that it was not on the agenda, you said nothing: it failed to comply with the parliamentary agreement, it did not even speak of a pact. Yesterday a member of the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid complained that Fomento was not going to comply with her agreement that in 2019 the VAD was already functioning in the Basque Autonomous Community. Madrid also does not comply with the agreements or covenants that it reaches with you. It is that your attitude, the attitude of your Government in relation to Foronda, demonstrates several things: that you agree and agree with the builders and defend their interests, those of the TAV; but you agree in this Parliament to defend Foronda, your workers, that Foronda is strategic not only for Araba, but also for Euskal Herria, as one of the most important cargo airports, but they do not comply with the agreement (I no longer speak of the pact). That deal doesn't go through with it. They refuse. They throw the ball once again to Madrid: the fault is Fomento's, the fault now will be that they are going to privatize Aena... It's always gonna be someone else's fault. His responsibility, once again, is still not on the table. What are you doing, beyond what you always tell us that it is Madrid's responsibility, and that they have no will? Here we sign an agreement, all political groups sign an agreement. What are you doing in relation to that agreement? Are you going to move from words to deeds? Are you going to put Foronda as one of your priorities, leaving other goals, such as high-speed train construction, out of your political agenda? Are they going to prioritize what already exists, where there are already workers working, where we can get to lose much more than we would lose by not building the TAV for 2019? But it is that you would only fulfill if Foronda could be filled with cement, because that would fill the pockets of the builders. And they would do it again as they have done with Pinosolo, as they have done with the Supersur. And they would do it again as always that there can be public money to fill their friends' pockets...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u156	Thank you, Łódź de Muuna. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u157	Mr. López de Munain, you disqualify yourself. We do not understand, and of course we do not share, the centralized and exclusive model, in favour of the State administration, of airport management. The airport competition is covered by the Gernika Statute, and we defend it. We do not understand how the Spanish state is not able to evolve towards a decentralized model similar to that of the Central European states, where the participation of regional governments and local institutions is structural. We have very close, for example, the model of Biarritz airport. That's what we stand for. Without prejudice to this, this Government participates in the promotion companies of the three airport terminals, as always with the will to work in the improvement and development of the offer of air transport. We also urge the ministry to respond to the demands of the Alavesa society and Basque society, and of the institutions in particular, including this Parliament, to promote the development of Foronda. At the meeting I had with the minister on 18 December (in that case we had this item on the agenda) I also raised the need to adjust the time-limited rates to the amounts of the working time charges. We have seen that this request has been met, and they have responded to this request by means of the relevant legislative amendment. Therefore, and once again I reiterate, the Foronda airport has an extraordinary potential that cannot be lost, and this Government will continue to work and engage with Foronda, because it is a key infrastructure for the socio-economic development of Araba and of the whole of Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-13.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
