ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Today, in honor of the late Mr. Fernando Buesa and Mr. Enrique Casas, we will begin with two minutes' silence. [[Pause]] First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff were members of the Uribe Eurbe, the members of the staff of the United States of the Medical Department, the Bio Gurut." Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u1	President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. At the beginning of this month we have learned that Bio Guruct (or Bio Crucies) has acquired an acre of nourishment which places it on the elite of the study of biodition. It's like the Carlos III High School. For this purpose, in order to obtain that official acreage, which admits the nature of the Sanitarian Institute, Bio Gurutua has been able to overcome the ex-genera procedure established. First, then, we would like to congratulate all the persons who have been able to obtain an acreage, and the immense work that has been confessed to us. Likewise, we wish to praise the commitment received by the Medical Department in the health zone for research, development, and promotion. For the chief of Darpón's department, from the first moment, had been responsible for his confidence and protection to Bio Gurutata. And it is true that, as much as any group in this House is committed to assigning some merit, the fact is that this project began in 2008 with the lehendakari Ibarretxe, and after a socialist government legislature, in which the accreditation process was practically paralysed, the new government of Urkullu once again believed in BioCruces, leaving aside political or partisan interests to focus on what is really important, on the stake for research and innovation, to place BioCruces in the elite of biomedical research. Unfortunately in the preceding law, an acre of violation of Bio Gurutata could not continue on account of the neglect of his employers, for having introduced large buildings, but only insisted on projects without the contents of inquiry. An entire legislature lost by the implication of the socialist government and the former scientific director in building a building, while with absolute desidiy the process of accreditation was completely neglected, that is, the really important thing. Despite the interested and false criticisms of some political representatives in this House, who accused you of seeking to paralyse the project, of giving a soup to scientific research and of pretending to be a brake on arrival or of expelling investigative persons, among other accusations, you, Mr Darpón, have maintained your commitment to moving the BioCruces project forward. It was not the intention of these teams to advance the project of Bio Gurutua. They needed an excuse to kick the Gukullu General's plug. On the other hand, you kept the engagement you had made, and with the whole party, you went to work to perform the indispensable duties of Charles III, which the Institute had established, and which had been left aside during the previous law; for example, to form an external scientific committee, to form the organs of government in the institute, to name a treaty with the University of the Basque Country, and so on. Requisitos imperscindibles para la acceditación, pero que se siquiera se emezatado la Legislature anterior. Fortunately, as Biodonostis did when he was President Ibarche, we are glad that Bio Gurucets also obtained an acre of land that confesses the nature of the school in Sanitarian study. In that sense, you've mentioned your statements, Mr. Darpón, that an acre of rentals confirms a high-level stake for the health teams of Eucommy. In fact, you said it would be useful to place it on the elite of the research and the innovations made for the investigation and the investigation. Can you specify what you're based on to tell us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u2	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, chief officers, good morning to all. Firstly, my solidarity and that of the Basque Government with all the people affected by the floods these days. Good. The accreditation of BioCruces as a health research institute by the Carlos III Institute of Health has been one of the main objectives of the Department of Health of the Basque Government. Its recognition is an indispensable step for the consolidation and development of BioCruces, which, together with BioDonostia and other research infrastructures, is one of the stakes of this legislature for R & D and innovation in the health system. On numerous occasions we have informed this House of the successive steps taken to this accreditation; today I am pleased to be able to report on this complex process. That is why, first of all, I also recognize the researchers, who are the true architects of accreditation. From these months of work I would like to highlight two aspects that have been key to the success of the project. First, the change of scientific direction, betting by professionals of the hospital of recognized prestige and trajectory, and, second, the indispensable incorporation of the UPV to the project and, consequently, to the patronage of BioCruces, which occurred in 2013. Bio Cruces has some credibility. To have this confession today has had a primary purpose in the Medical Department from the first day. If it is achieved, it is due to the labor and industry of many people. First of all, I want to thank all those people with my warmest thanks. In the audit of the Carlos III Institute, the rating of the audit team was "excellent", according to the textual words of the accreditation body itself, with 100% of the required objectives and 97% of the desirable ones being met. I do not want my words to sound self-congratulation, because, as I have told you, we are convinced that those responsible for success are the professionals who have worked on the project. We have fulfilled not only the goal of the department and the Government, but also the long-suffering dream of those who took time to achieve it. Since the end of 2008, as Mr Orbegozo said, BioCruces had started this journey that we have been driving since December 2012. From that moment on, a team made up of people from the Department of Health, Osakidetza, Bioef, the University of the Basque Country, and above all by the professionals of BioCruces themselves, has worked coordinatedly and effectively. Today we are faced with the result of this work: a health research group with one with an institute in the elite and excellence. The BioCruces Institute can now access more specific funding. And, as we said at the beginning of the legislature, the first thing was to have an organizational model of guarantee for research, which did not have, and accreditation, to later propose the expansion of a building and gain spaces and functionality. As you have seen, the building was not indispensable for accreditation. Plans are shown with actions. You've often shown in the course of two years that you weren't trusted in this project. Nevertheless, thanks to the industry and energy of the professionals, and to the aid of the Government, what was not more than a plan has been made true. Without a doubt, research in health sciences is one of the challenges of our future, and it can be one of its keys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u4	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, Igor López de Muninuza EH Collector's parliamentary member of the United States to the head of economics and contestations, the project of the city has been fulfilled." Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u5	Good morning. The prosecution of the Arababa, in a criminal caereila, lately introduced, accused six persons of diverting the rest of the public money. Indeed, it is expressed in Kyrein that some of the projects in the city were only a plan invented for help and public funds. Therefore, I ask you this question: In the opinion of the chief physician of economic development and competition, what is the aim of the city project which did not properly conform to it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. It's a city investigation and development project, at least as far as I'm concerned, and the industry, commerce, and Tourism Department, presented itself at a call for development and development in 2010. As you know, the emissary program, as it says in its explanation, is the end, in these projects, I shall read exactly: "a new science that is created will also be useful, and it has to be adapted to produce new and better products, processes, or services, or other technology that have strategic interest, or to create new patents and scientific technology companies with new patents, capable of creating jobs and improving technology positions." These are the ones that have to be filled up in this project, this stage and during calls. And it's not my opinion. I'll read you exactly what's said in the reports. He commented, in any event, that the Community framework for R & D aid under which the Etorgai programme is authorised – because it is within the Community framework – defines industrial research as "planned research or critical studies aimed at acquiring knowledge and skills that may be useful in developing new products, processes or services that will significantly improve existing ones". It includes the creation of complex system components that are necessary for industrial research, especially generic technology validation. Considering this, and taking into account all these references, within the technical and administrative documentation in which the results obtained are evaluated, it says: "The main milestone of the project, which is the design, development and manufacture of a highly innovative prototype electric vehicle, and the development of the new technology necessary for its materialisation, has been successfully achieved, having made a first official prototype presentation on 24 January 2012 at the headquarters of the European Commission in Brussels". Therefore, the assessment of 10 and 11 requiring the implementation of the prototype was complete. I'm going further. It further states: "To this end, the design objectives of the assembly lines, both of the vehicle and of the wheeled wheels, of the serial industrial process for the manufacture of each of the vehicle's component modules, and of the test benches necessary for the testing and verification of the vehicle's components, of the wheeled wheels and of the vehicle's final verification and test system have been achieved". Those were the targets. And in addition, three patents have been obtained, as you say. Therefore, the vehicle was introduced on 24 January (there is also evidence that this was done) in Europe, there are three patents, and the objectives and milestones that had been presented are absolutely fulfilled, as far as the research objectives are concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u9	Yes, Mrs. Tapia, I believe, or the feeling I have is that you always go one step behind in Hiriko's business. You say the targets have been met. The only objective that we and we have seen met is that public money has remained in the hands of those who have been the promoters irregularly. The goal you place it in technical developments. I'll talk to you about some of them. The roborroude, as you will know, all the automotive companies have developed it. I mean, they all have a developed roborroude model. Do you know why, do you know why no one uses it? Because European legislation does not allow this. European legislation does not approve roborroudes. That is, in that patent, in that same patent, we are paying for something that we knew perfectly well was not going to be able to industrialize. We are paying for a knowledge that the very laws of the Member States, already European, outside Europe, do not allow. And they don't allow it for security. What kind of aid is this, in which we are giving aid that even goes against our own industrial interests? It was never going to be possible to do it; that's why no industry does it, that's why no one does it. The second of the patents, the fold. We are talking about a 2.53 meter car, the intention was to leave it in 2, and that was also unfeasible, and so said the engineers working in Afypaida. And they were inviolable for several reasons, including economics. Such investment could not be allowed, especially because it gave many problems in added costs and weight, and could not be made. In this model it was impossible. With which all those technical, technological and other developments that you talk about were not true, are not true. They were never going to be able to materialize. You're talking to us about ideas, but, as far as we know, ideas had to be shaped. The project was not just a knowledge project, and above all knowledge that already exists, because the fold already exists, the MIT has developed it. What are we patenting here? What's he paying for? And we're going to talk about targets. The only ones who tried or pursued the objectives, both in the development of knowledge, in this case for the development of a purely Basque electric car, and in industrial development, were the women workers. Do you know what situation those who did try to meet the goals are in? For fifteen of them are in the courts complaining to those who have committed this scam, this plot, they are claiming their wages, because they have not paid them. We are talking about that with 18 million euros still the workers have not charged. Those who did pursue the goals, those are the people who still don't charge. Can you tell us, beyond repeating over and over again the subject of patents, that the objectives have been achieved? Do you think the goal was not to take out the money and run, as they have done, take out the money, fill their pockets and close the company with absolutely nothing left? And, meanwhile, those who did pursue the goals cannot charge.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u10	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u11	Mr López de Munain, I am getting very heavy and I repeat it because it seems that it has not just been understood. The support from the Basque Government 2010, 2011 and 2012, I insist, is for an R & D project. I read him what the call was for. Were the milestones and targets met, or were they not met? Yes, the car was possible, it was set up, there was a prototype, it was introduced in Europe, it was folded, it had the wheel and it had other accessories that were also fulfilled. Therefore, as a R & D project, it met all its objectives. That does not mean, and I have said on more than one occasion, that it did not fail at the time of putting it on the market. That's true. And the MIT thing, do you find out now? This car, of course, comes with a license (by the way, not exclusive) that was purchased at MIT. So, you don't find out anything. That's how it was from the beginning. Then it was a way to get it started. And don't confuse me with what the company is with the research project. It's two different things, don't try to confuse.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. First I must say that the eighth point has been retired. Third point in theme list: "The question is, that Michael Unzalu Hermosa, a member of the United States of the United States, has been made to the President, to respect the negotiations of the legislature, the conditions which ought to be observed by the Government." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari jauna, joan den otsailaren 13an harritu egin ginen, lortutako akordio baten betetzeari buruz galdetzen zuen legebiltzarkide bati wasntzuten ari zinela zera esan zenuenean: "I do not reject the pronouncement of this Parliament. However, I must also understand and address the reasons for the adoption of the agreements. And you mentioned last week, yes, but you know well that last week a decision was taken adding votes with some reasons and their opposites." Mr Urkullu, the agreement I am referring to is very concrete, and there is no doubt: "The Basque Parliament calls on the government to cease immediately the director general of EITB for the mismanagement developed at the head of the institution". And keep going. Look, Mr Lehendakari, your Government is not exactly characterized by taking care, respecting and taking the necessary measures to comply with the agreements of this House. I could give you many examples, but the time I have does not allow me. We believe that resolutions adopted as a result of non-legislative proposals must be respected and implemented by the Government. The greatness of politics and democracy is precisely to bring different people together. We have all heard many citizens say that of "Agree yourselves." And I will give you an example: the most important agreement reached in our country's history – the adoption of the Statute, from my point of view – was reached from very different positions and we could say that even contradictory ones. A step towards independence versus achieving the final entanglement of Euskadi in Spain, these are reasons that were given to achieve, even though that great agreement as was the Statute was achieved. You, Mr Lehendakari, have in the past been a judge and assessor of the agreements reached by the opposition. He came to tell us that, once the agreement has been reached, he will understand and take care of it according to his analysis, and, I say, his interest. That is why we ask you: what requirements must parliamentary agreements meet so that, with the majority in this House, they are respected and fulfilled by your Government?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u14	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u15	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mr Unzalu, indeed the statutory agreement, the Gernika Autonomy Statute agreement, was an agreement between different, not for contrary reasons. An agreement between different, which in addition in this case is organic law, and even though it is an organic law, has it been fulfilled? Look, I said fifteen days ago and I repeat that I do not reject the pronouncements of this Parliament. It is and will be an important guidance for government decisions, such as considerations of compliance with procedures and/or legality that any decision may entail, as well as conditionalities of budgetary stability. And you know it perfectly well, Mr. Unzalu. I also confirmed that the Government has the responsibility to ensure stability and continuity in the management of EITB, and this responsibility is in accordance with an agreement of Parliament that is not law, unlike the Statute of Gernika. And look, it's not legally binding, it's an orientation conditioned on its viability, opportunity and sustainability. Look, the government is not going to lead this institution, and even less so when a significant change has taken place this week. On Monday the Director General appeared before this Parliament and offered her explanations, on Tuesday the Board of Directors did not revoke the public call for employment, and also did not prosper the request for the Director General's resignation, which achieved only five votes in a council with twenty representatives. This change is a endorsement for EITB management. Mr. Unzalu, in the scene mentioned, the principal director announced that he was ready to examine certain measures, to smooth up the situation of 30 jobs supported by the council. To continue the management of the principal directors and to control them is the task of the administrative meeting. The measures which are to be taken to ensure the attraction of the public service presented by EITB, and the permanence of the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. To answer, Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u17	Look, Mr Lehendakari, it is not my intention to bring back to this plenary the debate on whether or not the director of EITB should cease. I didn't mean to. I intended to see what requirements this House's agreements must meet for its Government to comply with and comply with them. That was the substance of the matter. You have passed on to the concrete example I have set you, but it was not my intention. My intention was to tell you that, from our point of view, you made an interpretation on day 13 of the value of the agreements of this House, resolutions derived from non-legislative proposals in which the fundamentals are no longer budgetary issues, as is the case. In the case we are dealing with, the example to which you have submitted is talking about an issue that has nothing to do with budgets. It has nothing to do with it. So, I'm telling you, for us it's important to agree. I do not think that you, your Government, need to assess the way in which the agreement is reached. The text that is being reached is important. The text resulting from the negotiation between the different groups was important; the reasons for reaching that text were not important. I insist, what we believe is that you must comply with the agreements of this House. We already know the nature of non-legislative proposals, but we also want the political will of your Government to be expressed in compliance with these agreements, or not. The answer you have given us is that it seems to be you, depending on the political assessment you make of the agreements in this House, that you will or will not comply with them. And we don't agree on that. We're not. We're absolutely against it. We believe that the fundamental thing, what you have to do, the government, is to comply with the agreements of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Unzalu, I would like to reiterate that the pronouncements of this Parliament, and where appropriate the non-legislative proposals, which are not binding, are important guidelines for government decisions. And – as I said in my first speech – as are the considerations on compliance with procedures, in this case procedures, or questions of legality, or questions of budgetary stability, which also knows that they involve parliamentary decisions that are not binding. Why decisions are important, but what decisions are also important. And I reiterate to you: the government has the responsibility to ensure stability and continuity in the management of EITB, and this is what I pledge. So, fun will hold his position and we'll protect the stability of a professional, sharp, transparent model of management. It's part of this check to get an answer to the commitments made in this legislature, and the direction of EIB is protected by the fact that it's done. The explanations offered by the Director-General and the commitments made to the committee in this House have given rise to a new situation, Mr Unzalu. It undertook to analyse measures to alleviate the situation resulting from the thirty amortizations of approved posts. The Management Board's agreement has not been revoked, Mr Unzalu, and the request for cessation has not been supported. I insist that the board is the best endorsement for the management of EITB management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Cia Euscal Group to the president, the Acts of Ethics and Manners upon fulfilling their goals." Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning. Lehendakari, you have made the decision that Mr. Toña will continue as a counselor to this Government, even though a sentence has been handed down to you for breach of the law. At this point we want to ask you, lehendakari: do you think that after a decision of disqualification for violation of the law this counselor is a model of integrity and exemplaryness as a public office?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u23	Chief of Parliament. Look, Mrs Quiroga, the Committee on Public Ethics reproaches Mr Ángel Toña for not communicating this sentence – and I stop here –... , mercantile sentence. And I'd ask you not to confuse us with a criminal conviction. The sentence speaks of partial disqualification, for a specific court, and I also ask you not to confuse us with disqualification. In any case, is the question whether the Code of Ethics and Conduct actually meets the objective of promoting the integrity and exemplaryness of public office? I will tell you that the background is the twenty-six resolutions issued by the Public Ethics Commission. That's the question I answer, and I say yes. And whatever is exemplary, Mr Toña Guenaga's attitude since he's been a counselor will have the opportunity to demonstrate it every day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u25	Thank you. Look, Mr. lehendakari, the first thing I have to tell you in this second shift is that I don't intend to give any lessons, because you will understand that you in that second shift could probably use it for that and you more. I mean, you could probably get other cases or other situations out here where there would not have been an example of what we believe must be political ethics. But, look, I'm sure that you and I share the need for political prestige, the need for citizens to re-believe in politics and for institutions to be prestiged, an institution as important as that of the government. And what I want to tell you is that what happened here is that you've led a situation that you know is wrong. You know that you made a mistake by betting on Mr Toña, and you put the ethical commission in this story with a shoemaker. Yes, Mr Erkoreka, yes, because, look, the first thing that this Ethics Committee tells you is that you are not competent to make a decision on this issue, because what affects Mr Toña – which is Mr Toña's problem – is before it is a public office. Yes, Mr Erkoreka, that is the first point, which says that you are not competent. But do you know why? Because tell me, in the whole relationship of that Code of Ethics, where it appears that a public office has to comply with the law. Where does he show up? It does not appear, because it is yours, because it is a basic ethical principle for a public office to comply with the law. And Mr. Toña's problem is a problem that could have been his professional, that no one would have known, that he would have managed within his professional life. The problem is that when you decide to be a counselor you already have a public projection, and that is why it is the Ethics Commission that tells you that you have to appeal, because in the meantime you will not be complying with one of the basic ethical principles of politics, which is law enforcement by a public office. That is why, lehendakari, your decision to keep him in the Government has consequences for all of us. It has consequences for politics, it has consequences for the image of an institution as important as the Basque Government, and it also has consequences for all Basques. Because you've established where the bar is. Because for a matter of pride, for a matter of pride, of not wanting to acknowledge that he has made a mistake, that it was a mistake to bet Mr Toña, for the circumstances that involved him, is dragging us all into a situation in which the Code of Ethics has been loaded, the Ethics Commission has also been charged... Because you tell me now what face you're going to say to any office of your government that the Code of Ethics applies to you. He's going to say, "No, I'm going to get the Toña code, because I'm going to get a lot better with that one." And what is worse than all this, lehendakari, is that you have shown us where the measure of your political ethics is. And in that, lehendakari, it drags us all, in that decision. We ask you to correct that wrong decision. And we tell them, and we make it very clear here, because I think it's our obligation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Quiroga, I made you much more rigorous in the speeches, and above all in interventions of this nature. Look, it's not my style, and you know it, the one and you more. You think we're all the same, and you know it's not my style. And let's talk about Mr. Toña. In honor of that integrity and exemplaryness in which I believe, I will ask you for maximum rigour in the analysis of the subject concerning the counselor Ángel Toña Guenaga. The report of the Public Ethics Commission consists of 17 pages. After a thorough analysis of the considerations relevant to the case, it unanimously puts forward three agreements which I summarise. And they're the ones I'm summarizing, not the ones you've said, Mrs. Quiroga. First. Mr Toña Guenaga was not obliged to refer his case to the Public Ethics Commission, as these are facts that took place before his appointment as a counselor. Read seventeen pages, Mrs. Quiroga. Do not refer to the fact that I have taken the matter to the Ethics Committee, when it was the Councilman himself who took it. Second. Mr Toña Guenaga's attitude not to inform the lehendakari of a specific aspect of his professional career is not contrary to the Code of Ethics and Conduct. Third. The commission recommends Mr Toña Guenaga to appeal in cassation the sentence 5/2015 of the Provincial Court of Bizkaia. And the counselor has decided to appeal. The Code of Ethics and Conduct fulfils the objective of promoting the integrity and exemplaryness of public offices, and it is not that public offices will resort to the Code of Ethics. No, no! Public officials of the Basque Government have subscribed to their commitment to the Code of Ethics. The best evidence of this is that the adviser decided to present the case to the commission even though he was not obliged to do so, since the facts took place before that appointment. [[Señora Quiroga, si deja believer de hablar quizás me handache, y si me rightcha quizás entiendda y acepte comper tamenra la verdaón de la la custión.]] I insist, the Committee on Public Ethics reproaches Mr Ángel Toña for not communicating this commercial judgment of partial disqualification for a specific court. The adviser acknowledged his mistake, apologized, was accepted, decided to refer this matter to the committee, and has accepted the recommendation to appeal. As lehendakari I have answered all the explanations, both from the Committee on Public Ethics and also from the adviser himself. And I'm satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Gorka Maniero Labayen Misto-UPyD members made to the president, to know if he's capable of continuing to be the president of the Basque Delight." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u29	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, having spent two years since the start of the legislature and checked the balance of your government in terms of resolving the problems of citizenship, in this case the failure to resolve the problems of citizenship, I think it is time that someone asked you this concrete and concise question, and it was up to UPyD to do it: Do you feel qualified to remain Lehendakari? And, logically, I don't mean to stand in office without more, but if you feel able to perform the functions of lehendakari. And in particular if you feel able to solve the fundamental problems of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u31	Chief of Parliament. Mr Maneiro, with the due institutional respect that you, like all Members of Parliament, deserve me, and in view of the real economic, social, judicial, political and institutional reality, my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. I was hoping for an even shorter answer. However, I do not think so, in view of the results and in view of their balance sheet. I believe that you are not able to remain lehendakari, given the results achieved so far, and if we look at certain figures. Unemployment. Unemployment figures are virtually the same as they were two years ago. Job insecurity has increased over the past two years. Inequality has also increased, and poverty, poverty in general, child poverty and energy poverty have increased. In addition, there are a number of additional problems that have not been resolved, such as the Lanbide issue, which has remained an absolute disaster since the Government took over its administration. And new problems have arisen during this time: internal problems in Osakidetza, as a result of social cuts; internal problems in the Ertzaintza, or in EITB, where a person who no longer enjoys the support of this Parliament remains Director General of EITB. This is the balance sheet, therefore, of its two years of legislature. But there are also a number of turbulent issues that directly affect his Government or the Basque Nationalist Party. We have the case of buying news from related media to finance them. We have the case of Ibarzaharra, where people of the Basque Nationalist Party have been accused. We have the Pinosolo case, investigated by justice, or the issue of Miguel (the judge lasts a car to prosecute about thirty people for a corrupt plot in Álava, including relevant people of the Basque Nationalist Party). We have the Hiriko case, and we have the Kutxabank case. That is to say, we have a number of problems that have not been solved, and new problems are also accumulating. That is, you have not solved one of the fundamental problems of society. The situation is getting worse, and, by the way, we have recently seen a survey saying that only one in ten Basques believes that the Basque Government is addressing the economic and social needs of Euskadi. And all this without parliamentary support, being 27 out of 75 parliamentarians. I ask you one more question: Will it come to the end of the legislature? Do you have the strength to do that? Do you think he's going to solve any of the problems of Basque society? I honestly don't see him being able to keep being lehendakari. Today's balance sheet is absolutely desolating. If so far it has not solved the problems of society, the fundamental problems, how will we think that from now on it will solve any of them?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, if you read the polls, read them whole, and reproduce here what you also say about the poll. In any case, I am the lehendakari, yes, Mr Maneiro, and, as I am the lehendakari, the problems of Basque citizenship are my problems, and I will continue to devote all my effort and ability to try to solve them. I have not lied or hidden the problems, and I will not enter into demagogic and populist contests, Mr. Maneiro. I am not going to participate in your most summarizing, apocalyptic, catastrophic judgments. Moreover, it is not the competence of this Government, which is what you use here in this rostrum over and over again to try to wear down the lehendakari of this Government. Questions that are not of this Government. Look, your interventions are sterile, I think they don't bring anything to society. As lehendakari I will continue to lead a serious government, a rigorous government, a full government, every day trying to implement the program that I have committed to Basque society. And, Mr Maneiro, it will be Basque society, since I feel capable, it will be Basque society which, at the moment, values our capacity and makes a decision in freedom. And my confidence, not in me, but in the capacity of the government, is full, and my only obsession is to fulfill. Look, I answer to society with a government program, with a government program that we are fulfilling; I answer, despite what you say, with plural agreements that have enabled budgets to move forward; I answer to Basque society with the Framework Agreement for Economic Reactivation and Employment; I also answer with the agreement on the new Vocational Training, with the portfolio of social services; I also answer with the agreement on the flexibility of the deficit objective; I answer with the investment plan; I answer with the agreement on the conclusion of taxes, with the agreement on tax reform, with the agreement on the fight against fraud... Mr. Maneiro, country agreements you're missing from. You're absent. Look, this isn't a personal cross-examination between you and me. The important thing is the opinion of Basque society. You get stuck in your positions, and with your attitude, sadly, provokes an interpretation of UPyD as ultra-populist and demagogic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the President of the House ofUPyD, on account of the measures he will receive against the promoters of the City."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u37	Thank you, President. On Monday 16 February, we learned that the Álava Prosecutor's Office has filed a criminal complaint against the promoters of the failed Hiriko urban electric car project, promoters who had almost EUR 18 million in public subsidies and subsidies: almost EUR 15 million from the Spanish Government, when it ruled Mr Zapatero, and EUR 2.7 million from the Basque Government. Possible crimes are certainly serious. These include: misappropriation of public funds, fraud against the administration, fraud of subsidies, money laundering, documentary falsity, and misappropriation. The plaintiffs, in short, are individuals, they are private, but some of them are clearly linked to the Basque Nationalist Party. According to the prosecutor, Afypaida is a vehicle that receives public funds and distributes them among the commercial entities of the plot. The judge has admitted the complaint, has opened a summary phase in which it is planned to take a statement to the six defendants. Initially, the Basque Government said it did not rule out characterizing itself in the case against the promoters, which the central administration has already done. Then Mr. Erkoreka announced that he dismisses complaining against the promoters of Hiriko; he assured us that there is no objective and justified reason for characterizing himself in the judicial case. Me peers interest surcinta pero gatenante los antecedentes. We can remember the old ones. We have to remember the old ones.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u38	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u39	The assistant investigation concerning Epsilons and the City was launched byUPyD in the Basque Act. The Jeltarian Party and the Social Party, though the latter were at the last moment relieved, did not want to investigate anything. It is UPyD that drives this commission of inquiry, and the fact is that neither the Socialist Party nor the Basque Nationalist Party are in favour of it. Something they might want to hide, and in any case, what's clear is that nothing they wanted to clear up. The aim of the initiative was to agree on the setting up of a special commission of inquiry on aid, subsidies and credits granted by the various public administrations and bodies to Epsilon Euskadi and Hiriko. This was the work UPyD wanted this commission of inquiry to do. However, since the beginning of the work both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi put all possible impediments in order for this commission to carry out the work in the best possible way. Euzko Alderdi Jeltzaleak eta Alderdi Sozialistak oztopo guztiak jarri zituzten batzordearen lanak oztopatzeko, ergozteko. And this is demonstrated in its haste to close the work of the committee, in its refusal to expand the number of participants when the rest of the groups requested it, in the few hours that were allowed to make allegations, or in the scarce day and a half that we had to read the allegations or amendments of the rest of the groups. An attitude, therefore, that was uncooperative, which even reflected in the internal vicissitudes of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Finally, an opinion was adopted which we defined at the time as very moderate, very limited, and said that this opinion was short. And all the amendments of the groups that wanted to go a little further were rejected. They were rejected with the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. The president's report, then the committee's report, was cut short, and that's why our corrections and allegations. All our corrections and allegations were rejected by the Jelt Party and Socialists Party and all the other political teams and amendments. This, I think, is also important to remember. From there, a number of conclusions were adopted with regard to Hiriko. One said that the Government lacked a lack of strategic vision because it did not appreciate the risks in relation to the need for approval of the Hiriko project. All UPyD amendments in this matter were rejected by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. Some of them are interesting to remember now, as when we proposed that the report should say that it is totally surprising that non-profit associations were the promoters of a strategic project of the highest international order. Or the one in which we suggested that it was surprising that a non-profit association (Afypaida) would pay astronomical salaries to some of its managers. It is also surprising that the first manager of Afypaida, Mr Iñigo Antia, with a salary of more than 100,000 euros per year, did not have any professional qualifications or experience in the field of automotive. Or when we proposed that it be included in that opinion, which is totally amazing that virtually all the associations and companies involved in the project are related to the Basque Nationalist Party, and that most of its managers, promoters, owners or managers are or have been public leaders or public officials of that party. We also voted against, through the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, an amendment by UPyD proposing that the opinion should include the following: "It has not been shown that industrial manufacturing development would be envisaged with a project of viability and serious financing that would allow us to see that the car would be or could be a reality in the future". Or when it was suggested that the continuous changes of suppliers and engineers in the Hiriko consortium, which caused instability and uncertainty, should have alerted and provoked greater prudence in the Government. Finally, there were many amendments tabled by UPyD that were rejected with the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. Many of these amendments that were rejected now have the whole sense of the world to remember them, because I think that is what will be shown. We were also proposing an amendment so that that opinion would say that the Spanish Government, chaired by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, was politically responsible for giving way to the political pressures of the Basque Nationalist Party, since they entailed the granting of aid and subsidies to Hiriko without the necessary assessment, monitoring and control measures on the part of the central executive that could justify them. Thereafter, a number of recommendations were also adopted. One, by the way, is to urge the Basque Government to formalise the request for the repayment of aid and subsidies granted to Afypaida. I summarize this because I believe that this shows that what we were able to observe in that commission of inquiry is that there was a clear agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi so that that commission did not do everything it had to do to finally know the truth. In any case, we want to know your opinion on this matter, taking into account the prosecution's complaint. We want to know if the Basque Government is going to appear on the case. We want to know what measures you intend to take to recover aid obtained fraudulently e by the promoters of the Hiriko project. We want to know what steps the Government intends to take to ensure that similar events do not recur. We want to know what responsibility the Basque Government assumes. All this is what we want to know; how it is possible that certain public funds have finally gone into private hands, to people related to the Basque Nationalist Party. We want to know your opinion on this subject. We want to know if the government will show up. We want to know what size the government would have to promote to re-establish assistance and public money. We also want to know what the government's going to do to keep this kind of thing from happening again. And in conclusion, we want to know what responsibility the government takes in this case. We want to know all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u40	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mrs. Tapia's got a word that's a New Year's Representative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u41	Mr Maneiro, as far as the Basque Government is concerned, I believe that I have repeated this on more than one occasion, but it is an aid to a research project, specifically the Etorgai programme. I have already mentioned this to Mr López de Munain, and we have said it on more than one occasion. This is a project, therefore, which had very clear objectives set out in the 2010 call for the Etorgai programme, and, I do not know, I will repeat what the objectives of this programme are, because it seems that they are not sufficiently clear, however much I repeat them. And it is planned research or critical studies aimed at acquiring new knowledge and skills, which can be useful for developing new products, processes or services, or for significantly improving existing ones. In other words, under no circumstances are products, processes or services said to have to be carried out. He says they can be useful; knowledge and skills that can be useful. E includes the creation of complex system components that are necessary for industrial research, especially generic technology validation. That's the Etorgai call. That is why the European Union allows us to give subsidies where there are market failures and industrial risks. That is why these are programmes in which there is a significant amount of subsidy. That is what the European Union says, and that is why it was given the corresponding aid. And also within that Etorgai call, endorsed by the European Union, I repeat, like so many other grant programmes, it is said that the acquired knowledge, patents and licenses, if any, are owned after the consortium that has developed them. And that's because that's what the summons says. In Hiriko's case, of course, and I repeat again, there were a number of milestones, and the main one was the design and manufacture of an electric vehicle prototype, which was carried out. And that electric vehicle, prototype, with those wheels, the somewhat special steering wheel, with the fold, was presented in Brussels (with Mr Barroso, by the way, inside that car) on 24 January 2012. This means that the objectives of this project in terms of research, I repeat, which is the support for the Basque Government, have been achieved. It was a risk project, it was true; therefore, in 2010, instead of automatically giving the grant for the three-year project, it was reviewed annually. In 2010, after assessing the achievement of the targets for that year, the relevant report was issued, and the grant was given for 2011. The same thing was repeated in 2011 and the subsidy was given for 2012, which is when the prototype of the car already appeared. And it also says another report that "the design objectives of the assembly lines of both the vehicle and the robowheels, of the industrial process have been achieved" and so on, which I have previously repeated. We come to the Government at the end of 2012, when we have to finish now and we have to liquidate all the aid, and it is noted that there is a small part that has not been fulfilled in this project, which means that the small part of the aid is requested to be repaid: of the 2,700,000 previously planned, the refund or the non-payment is requested – because there has been a part that had to be liquidated – of approximately EUR 130,000 (130,000 or 160,000, I do not remember exactly). Therefore, it has been demanded, and the project has been followed in a comprehensive manner, I insist, at the end of 2010, at the end of 2011, and this Government has been responsible for the end of 2012. As a research project we have no objective cause for characterizing ourselves at this time. That does not mean, as Mr Erkoreka said, that in the course of the judicial process, if it is shown that such aid has been derived for other types of proceedings, obviously we do not get involved and we are going to request such a return. But today there are no objective reasons for us to be in that situation, in that judicial process. Because, I insist, the research project is well done. Another thing is that the marketing project was later failed, and I understand that there is another administration much more involved than we, which will have to account for its. We (the previous government and us) have evaluated this project, and it has been carried out. And let me also say, Mr Maneiro, that of course everything you have told us again from the committee of inquiry. I think it's finished, it's voted here, and if we're going to be going around the same thing for a long time, then what's stopping us is to see the reality, which is what I'm telling you. The reality of a research project like so many others in this community. By the way, the European Union says that we are the region that does it best, because precisely how much closer the subsidy is to the market, and how much more risk there is and how much less to the larger market is the subsidy, which is what needs to be done, in line with what we are doing. That we've made improvements? Yeah. That you can still do more? Obviously. And that we have to follow all the aids and everything we get from them, that's true. But the objective of R & D & i aid is nothing other than to cover a significant risk margin, and of course a market failure. I mean, where there's no one in the market. Otherwise, such aid would be incompatible. In our opinion, therefore, today there is no reason, today, for us to become involved in that lawsuit. It does not mean that we are not going to follow up that process in very detail, and that if there is another situation and we see that it is necessary to act, we would do so as a Government in that case. But it's not necessary today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u43	Yes, thank you, counselor. Counselor, are you proud of the results of this project and of all the things surrounding this matter? Do you think there have been no mistakes anywhere and anywhere? Do you really feel proud? What do you think about the prosecution's complaint? What do you think there can be behind it? What do you think you deserve? Is everything done perfectly? Do you really believe that? Doesn't it make you think there's something else behind it, if we look at who the people who have ultimately benefited from public funds, many of them people linked to the Basque Nationalist Party, many of them people related to the Basque Nationalist Party? What reflection do you have on this issue? Doesn't it make you think all these people are linked to the Basque Nationalist Party? Do you not think that what has really happened here has been a transfer of public funds, of funds from the whole of the citizenry, to certain private hands because they were exactly who they were? I believe that it is, and I also believe that this is precisely what will ultimately have to be investigated. Indeed, I have recalled some of the things that have happened in the committee of inquiry, because they seem relevant to me, because it was the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, in the first instance, who refused to launch this committee of inquiry, because they had something to hide. And both parties, in the work carried out by that commission of inquiry, did not facilitate things in order to know what had happened, but quite the contrary: they put all the impediments that they could to prevent the best possible work. That's the reality. And, of course, we are not only talking about the public funds provided by the Basque Government, but also about the public funds provided by the Spanish Government, and we cannot forget that there the Basque Nationalist Party played an essential role, when it demanded from Mr Zapatero certain public funds for this project. And there, of course, Mr Erkoreka, by the way, played an essential role. Why does the Basque Nationalist Party consider this matter essential in order to save the president of the government? Don't you have anything to say about it, besides saying you're just a counselor? Doesn't this make you think there's anything else? Why did the Basque Nationalist Party put so much interest in the Spanish Government funding this project then failed? There are other matters that also attract attention. I say, the connections of the Basque Nationalist Party with the companies; the connections of this matter with the case of Miguel; the connections Epsilon-Hiriko-Arakamendi as a global strategy of the Basque Nationalist Party. I believe that all this corresponds to a certain way of acting that has taken place in Euskadi for decades, and in recent cases and in recent years, in recent months, we are getting to know more cases: Ibarzaharra, Pinosolo, De Miguel, even Kutxabank and some others. It gives the impression that what has happened here has been a transfer of public funds to certain people who should only meet a fundamental requirement, or at least one, which is to have the carnet of a certain political party. That's the feeling you've got at the end, and I think it's at the end that you'll have to investigate. I believe that we are facing a new case of underground corruption and the use of public money for the benefit of certain people of the Basque Nationalist Party. This is what I think has happened here and in many other cases. I think it is a shady matter, I think we are witnessing the summary of what Basque politics has been like in many areas over the past decades: privileging certain people against the general interests of citizens. That is why I believe that the Government has a lot to say on this issue, and of course I believe that it should be on the case and that it should do everything possible to recover the aid that could then be used fraudulently. And I think that this House should also say something about the actions carried out at the time by the Spanish Government. I believe that this is what we should do, to the benefit of the greatest possible transparency and in favour of democratic regeneration, which is still pending in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u45	Mr. Maneiro, let's be a little serious. You're telling me about a lawsuit. Where is the presumption of innocence? Where are there, as you say, so many other causes, complaints and others that later it has been shown that there is nothing? Let's let the judge do what needs to be done. Nothing has yet been shown here. The only thing that has been proven is that the judge is going to start investigating. So let's not make previous trials, and don't make me talk as a judge instead of as a counselor. I am speaking as an advisor on R & D & i aid given by the Basque Government at the time (2010, 2011 and 2012). So that's what I have to answer for, not anything else. That's what I have to answer for and what I answer for. If I am proud of how things are done in the government in terms of R & D & I, not this government, in other cases? Obviously. That's what we're talking about. Don't pretend to puke, don't pretend to mix things up. This is an R+D+i call that has been followed comprehensively, which has been shown to be fine. Therefore, the characterization today does not take place. And as far as the Spanish Government is concerned, there were obviously a number of amendments put together with the Socialist Party. A number of projects were presented and jointly analysed, and from there the responsibility lies with each of the governments, I understand, because they are the ones who give the aid and have to justify it. And I am responsible for those of the Basque Government. I insist, they've been shown to be okay. When you want to talk to Mr Erkoreka you ask him, please, because today I am speaking, I am afraid. You're trying to stir, confuse, with a strategy of... well, every time you come out to this rostrum, you tell us the same things, constantly, over and over again. How many times are you gonna tell us again? How many times? Every time he comes out to the rostrum, over and over telling the same stories, trying to mix it all up. But we're not fools here, and I don't think those who listen to us either. So, let's be a little serious and go to the things we're talking about. This House has also worked on a paper... Now don't tell me there has to be another commission! He's worked on a commission of inquiry. How many times do you want to investigate the same thing? How many times are we gonna have to talk about the same thing? There has been a committee of inquiry, there has been a vote in this Parliament, and it has been closed. Do we have to open it again? Why? Why? If you are currently in court proceedings, let us wait for what you say and let us wait for what is shown. And, of course, I insist, today there is nothing to show that we have to act against anything or anyone, because the objectives of the research project are adequate and appropriate to what was said to be achieved. And I do feel proud of those R & D & I projects, those funding aids, how we do it. Because yes, this is part of a whole process of how aid is done and how it is justified. And when you want to look at all the aid that exists, all the programmes that exist, and how it is done and how it is being improved and adapted to what the European Community says. And don't pretend to mix things that have nothing to do with each other. Don't pretend to mix. This is a research project, and if you want more details, whenever you want, I'll tell you how things work. But please don't mix things up with us and don't pretend to confuse us, because you're not going to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, "Natalia Rojo Solana Sozia Sozialists made for the president on the jobs of young people about the mills for 2020." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u47	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. And good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. Last January you declared in Deusto Forum that the great challenges of this decade are youth employment and innovation. This parliamentary group, of course, as it cannot be otherwise, shares the diagnosis, and has therefore made different initiatives in this regard, the last week with an appearance in the relevant committee. We therefore hope that the economic strategy designed by the Basque Government under its Euskadi 2020 programme, Human Development and Sustainable Growth, will bring the right results, and above all give real and contrasting solutions to the employment situation of Basque youth. However, youth employment and innovation are two problems of the present rather than challenges, as you defined them. Mr Lehendakari, youth employment and innovation are two realities that demand action in the present. We note some difficulty in his Government in contextualizing the problems, that is, in introducing the problems affecting society in its just temporary dimension. A challenge is an objective, or, in its most primordial condition, an effort that is difficult to carry out and which is therefore a stimulus and a challenge for those who face it. But this definition has a future dimension, it is a goal to be achieved, it is not a problem to be addressed. And we believe that we should focus on 2015, our present. 2020 is too far away for the real problems of youth and helpful resolution. We now express his Government's Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery, committed to EUR 6,475 million over three years, and demand, as is the case with any opposition group, objective results. Its sustainable growth strategy 2020 obviously demands a spirit of agreement and consensus. Our group supports their future concerns; however, how do we address the problem of youth employment from a perspective here and now? In short, what strategy does the Basque Government envisage to address the unemployment problems of young Basques today and in the near future?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u48	Thank you, Miss Rojo. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Red, the fact that you say that it is a challenge does not prevent you from recognizing that it is a problem at present, and, in addition to a problem, also a present challenge. The strategy to generate employment opportunities for young people is a priority for this Basque Government. Youth employment is not a challenge: it is a political commitment and a social commitment present. And it's a commitment contained in the government program. We have also taken into account the reports of the Youth Directorate, and have also received input from the Euskadi Youth Council. This strategy to which I refer is reflected in the employment and economic recovery agreement to which you have referred. It has its reflection in agreements with the Vocational Training Plan shared with the centers, or in agreement with the outlaws to strengthen understanding, or in the scholarships of internationalization and practices abroad, within the framework of the consortium with the chambers of commerce... It is therefore a non-future priority; it is a permanent priority. In the general policy debate I raised youth employment as a priority 2015. Mrs Red, I think there is a full coincidence in the relevance of this objective, both for you and for me and lehendakari. I'm very aware that we have a lot to do. We are making progress in the specialized attention in the implementation of the European Youth Guarantee Programme, or in strengthening understanding, whether in training, in gastempresa, in junior cooperatives... We are driving the first work experience through the Lehen Aukera program, or the international experience in emerging sectors, support measures and talent attraction... This is the strategy to promote youth employment in which this Government is involved in the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u51	Yes, thank you again, President. Mr Lehendakari, I do not deny that your Government is taking initiatives, it is true. You have announced them in every place where you have been able, and also do well in it. What I question are the results of these. Because indeed any responsible government must have youth – not just at a precarious time like this, but always – as one of the collectives to attend to, but I think the results are not being adequate. The EGK, which you have appointed and which I, as a matter of fact, did not intend to name you, has participated in those initiatives that you say, and has been very, very critical of the outcome. In fact, in this Parliament he presented one of the reports they have made on the subject of work, and the results they present and the diagnosis they make are very worrying indeed. On the other hand, as we put it in the last parliamentary committee, there is a survey carried out by the Basque Youth Observatory in February 2014, with some very worrying conclusions: there is a small percentage of young people who find employment according to their training; 39% of those under the age of 30 who have work think that within a year they can lose it; 45% of young people do not see it possible to leave their parents' homes and therefore they are questioned about their life plan in terms of emancipation. And I would like to ask you: What are the benefits of youth promotion policies, and especially those that focus on promoting employment? During 2014, the Basque Executive has allocated 28 million euros to support youth entrepreneurs, training, promotion of talent, even to that first work experience that you have told us about, but yet what is the real result that can be offered to Basque youth as a solution by a government that says they are their priority? It is true that the fight against youth unemployment and enabling young people to gain their first work experience requires structural and quality measures, and also requires their time of implementation, but we will not set unconditional challenges over time, if in our present reality the action of the Government conditions it. They are not getting results, Mr Urkullu, and that is the answer you must give them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u52	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mr. President, to answer you, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Red, since it is a priority 2015, the priority is framed in what is the framework agreement for economic recovery and job creation, and in this strategy by 2016, and therefore of something that has started in 2014 I do not think it is opportune to evaluate the results when the path is until 2016. The strategy I have presented is reflected in the 2014 budget and also in this year's budget, also in the Framework Agreement on Employment and Economic Recovery. Look, I'm staying with the goal we set ourselves until 2016. The employment plan envisages direct measures to support youth employment amounting to EUR 85 million, the estimated impact being the direct creation of 2,000 jobs for young people and the improvement of the employability of 45,000 young people with dual or first-time training and 500 annual international training grants. These are agreements signed with you, Mrs. Red. We have developed them, approved them and evaluated them (we have evaluated them) together. The Government is ready to continue to add, and yesterday it again presented this objective to the European Commission within the framework of the Youth Guarantee Plan. I think it is time not to make short-term assessments, but on that path from here until 2016, or from 2014 to 2016, pooling efforts. Because after six years of crisis we also have to say that we have started to create jobs, that the first step has been taken, and that in this sense we have to deepen. So young people have a priority for us. We've agreed to a $85 million investment for Eplegue Plan 2016. year by year. Our goal is to create 2,000 new jobs and facilitate 45,000 young jobs options. This is a social goal, and it's a funk that's going to do the most encouraging thing to answer this priority. I said the first step was taken, it started to work, and then we'd all get together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, that Diana Carolina, the Gold Herrera, the Member of Parliament for the EH team, was made for the President, concerning the law of equality." Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u55	Thank you, ma'am. From the seat. Mr. Urkullu, when the principle of equality has been ten years old, is it really a priority to Eukullus?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. The gold was fixed on the committee which we had just the day before yesterday: It's about 2015 that we make the revision of that law and evaluate it every five years, we're gonna do it. And of course it's a priority to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u59	There are, Mr. Urkullu, on the one hand, laws written in grave letters, and, on the other, there are such as remain on paper. Unfortunately, the observance of the rules and measures received in the law of equality is being a matter of will. It is more like a number of recommendations than that of a law. Without denying that in the internal conditions of public institutions and the origin of the periods of coordination, the greater part of the measures foreseen in the law are still on paper alone. If progress has been advanced, it has been due to the will of the agents and sensibility, not to the legislation. It's not funny doing anything to make the law happen. The law proposes high potential elements for change, and the duty of examining the genus is to evaluate the genus function in the process of public policies. That is to say, before any public policy can be made, the effect of this particular policy over women and men must be considered, and, if necessary, establish direct measures. A very powerful measure, but which, after ten years, is not yet developed. Not only public institutions, but it also combines media and publicity with the laws of equality, but most of them remain the nest of sexists of values and stereotypes, with their backs to the law. But, Mr. Urkullu, the most important thing we think is that whoever should have the public euskal radio agent does not follow these criteria. The weakness of the law is remarkable in this circle. The media and the publicity don't feel communicative, but does it bother you? As for determining and setting of power, the law of equality demands that the participation of women and of men must be equal. Women, but they're still out of the main decisions. The rule is the state of Apartheid, and a parallel exception. The result? As always, women still lose, suffering with unbalanced distribution of labor: the second-class employees and guardians of the house. Although it seems paradoxical, the women have no right to enjoy life and well-being. The law of equality, Mr. Urkullu, is not an effective instrument, especially because the political will of the law is wanting. For the future, for tomorrow, this task has been abandoned, but "bihar" has come, and "bihar" is now, Mr. Urkullu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Lady Gold, as the law ordains, is now fit to make an evaluation of the law, and, as I have said before, we know and will do it. This evaluation will show us the themes that we can improve. And that's the way we do it: to proceed, to examine what has always been done, and to make changes to improve them, by making alterations. The law allowed ten years ago is an important tool for advancing along the road of equality, as you have said. To have tools is indispensable to accomplish the goal of equality. We all know that the way to equality is a long way to complete. "Ming has taken a lot of steps, Mrs. Gold, with this goal for the past ten years, and our fun too. This, then, is the case with regard to the equality of these legislations. The plan is in the midst of our strategic plans. It is evident that the law distinguished the past and the present in many respects. For instance, in 2005, there was no balanced delegation between women and men in the public Esscal administration. At present, however, the delegation of women and men is more balanced in the Basque Act, in the great assemblies, in the Eucomators, in the councils of deputies, and in the councils of local administration. For instance, by law, they obviously increase specialized structures to promote equality, and it's just like fun. It's getting too much of an equality plan, and it's already got its own. More employees have been hired to go through public administrations as well as the ones you've been pushing before. There is still a great deal to do all the challenges received by the law in its entirety, but the fact that it is the law itself has already made us all look the same north. Mrs Urrea, not only last week, as I said earlier in my first speech, I took part in this week's interdepartmental committee, but last week I took part in the management board of Emakunde. I can assure you that the five-year evaluation you are requesting is being prepared and will be presented this same year, as proposed by law. For the past ten years, thanks to the law, to the labor of institutions, associations, entities, and many persons, this society has taken strong steps to equality. Steps have not been limited to public camp, even in private. I think it's remarkable that more and more corporations are working on the planet of equality, the citizens react more and more and more and more and more are mobilized in the face of sexistic situations, and more and more are silent in the presence of violence against women... There's a lot to do? We're clear. Is it possible that it's over? Yeah. Inconsequent? We're getting used to a purpose by studying how we're developing a ten-year-old law every five years. We accept responsibility that we must continue to work. The road is open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpology, made by the members of the Casanova Alonso Group, to the head of economics and contestations, to resist the state of corporations with difficulty." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u63	Hello. Good morning, everyone. In this Chamber, at least in theory, we agree with the idea that we need a strong industry in this country. At least in theory. We want a strong industry to strengthen the relative weight of the raw internal procedure, and from the addition of value and so many other considerations, we consider that we must transform the axis of our hundred productive industry into an industrial area, or continue it. 'EsskoMork says that in 2020 the year he wants the weight of industry to reach 25% of the raw internal product as a purpose. Actually, evolution doesn't go that way. It's totally the opposite. Since it started with a crisis, data is quite negative. The weight that industry supposes in a raw internal product has gone back and in 2008, if it was 24.5%, now it's under 21%. Six years ago, 60,000 jobs have been lost in this area, almost 4%. We have to say, "Muddy's planning it as a goal in 2020" that we had a few years ago. Then when he talks about the departure of the crisis, and for the sake of the good, we should say that as to industry, the object of government is to return to the state we were in before the crisis began. I think we should be specific and be honest when we admit it. Industries have serious problems nowadays: energy costs, financial problems, delays that are being investigated, painful restrictions at university, etc., etc., etc. But we have not come here today to speak of industrial politics in its general, but of a part of the industrial political, perhaps particularly painful, and that is to say, that is to say, of the state of the corporations, which are either disappearing or in a deep crisis, or which is not developing, from the eulogy of the Eucharist politics. It's a serious situation, and we think individuality isn't an option. Bestes datu bat emateagatik, metalareen azpisektorean, gure industrialen ardatza den azpisektorean, 36,000 lanpostu galdu dira krisi honetan. Eta, sektore horretako patronalaren zuzendariak esaten two moduan... "Creating a job in the industry requires a much higher investment than any other type of business. Therefore, when a company closes, reopening the business is very difficult." So there's a motto or idea that we've often repeated here, and that it's the best investment for the job to defend what we have. And today, unfortunately, there are a lot of corporations in danger, a long list: Condesa, Archma, Cegasa, Mecanica Mallabi, Alpha, Baltogar, Cablenor, Candy, etc. The workers of the sector that are suffering the most severe consequences, and even the unions that are their representatives, have insisted upon a public intervention of form in order to re-establish these situations and find solutions. In their opinion, the joy that is the chief director of public policies in business and industry doesn't measure, does not lead the will, the means, and the initiative. I shall mention an example of this, because it is very serious and painful to me that the principal union in the Basque Country makes such reflections, and in November last year the ELA Union did: "In the face of this situation, we are faced with a government that has no industrial policy, and, worse, gives the impression that it does not aspire to have it. The Industry Advisor is missing. It serves as an example that on April 8, 2014 ELA requested a meeting to address the situation of the industry, but that appointment today has not occurred. The counsellor communicates with society through the various business acts she attends on time." Really, we said it's very serious reading that way. There are lots of examples. I won't stay too long, but I'd like to talk about some of them. We met yesterday about ELA and LA and LAB unions thinking about the connection of the Condesa business, and I really believe it's serious and almost dramatic in the situation we're in. Let's summarize it. "This is the attitude that the Basque Government has maintained since the beginning of this process: to put obstacles in the way that we cannot meet with them; when we do, to offer no information, and also to refuse an active role in the search for solutions. That seems to be the role of the Basque Government: passivity in the face of the problems of the Countess's workers." Remember, 800 jobs are at play, most of them in the Basque Country. It's called a social conversation, and they criticize the unions for not sharing in a social conversation in certain specific formulas, but it would be a good idea to be able to practise the social conversation with the will and the will to help them get engaged. Azken adibide bat, ez luzatzeko: Laminations Arregui, Celsa Atlantic. "The company committee reproaches the Urkullu government for its lack of involvement, wondering what else it needs to defend workers' jobs." I speak and I speak with the unions and the voice the workers gave me, to prove that this complaint is really the most injured ones that ever published it. And we agree with that reflection because we think the RedMork would have to play a lot more active role in cases of this kind of emergency. More active paper. He should be in the trenches with the workers, and defend the interests of our industry with all the tools that he has to defend the closed corporations, the speculative movements, and the delocations. And with the knowledge of this reality, we proposed it in a monographic plen, almost employment, unemployment, and poverty, and obtained a request to try a protocol in this Chamber. And this parliament has asked this "Mody" to give a protocol in a systematic way to apply a set of politics or measurements in front of the crisis. We were wondering if he'd put in a special protocol. In that case, the fun will hand over all his equipment and all his means to the workers and/ and the workers' committee (Juductical action, the strategic planning, the help lines... ), and with them, he will be obliged to examine the situation, and to make an end of it." Does the government have the will to answer this request? Does he know about this? Did he do anything? Does he intend to fill it? Will he bring a proposition here? We wait for an answer to that. To conclude, I would like to mention the example, which we have but little known in the contrary direction. And I say "in the opposite direction," because, in this case, the institutions took an active paper and completed it for the benefit of the active paper which society expects from them. I'm talking about Candy's case. Unfortunately, in this case, the request and the response didn't come from the Basque Mitch, and that's where the reviews have been repeated on behalf of the unions. I won't be long, but ELA and the other unions have reviewed the future of Candy and have been accused of it. In front of him, the Gipulia mob, although not his own industrial appetite, decided to commit with a project and get a pre-eminence to a point of hope. And we may say that agreement, this agreement called a reform process, is almost a success, even though it has not yet been signed, although there is not yet an investor who will be able to solve this affair once and for all. There's a success that all sides agree with a definite and convincing proposal for jobs. Perhaps this proposal will succeed, there will be an investor and a job will remain. In the worst case, the end of the company will be organized and respected by all the rights and very good conditions of the workers. But in the best case, if you meet this investor, there's a lot of Françoise opportunities, which is a realist project, most of the jobs will remain at Bergara. Therefore we would like to ask the chief physician whether he knows this case, and whether he is ready to assist him, and whether he can apply it as an example to the other enterprises which are under similar conditions. If not, we'll continue to think that they're cleaning up their hands and that you're not doing any music in front of the corporations that's in crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u64	Thank you, Mr. Casanova... Thank you. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u65	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, at least I'm glad you say that we agree with the weight of the importance of the industrial zone and of the crude internal procedure. So at least we have the right starting point. We know that in this crisis our companies and its employees are suffering severely. But yet we must say that the strong growth of so much expectation is rising (very slowly, it is true, very slowly, but it is coming) and, if the years to come remain alike, our companies have a chance to advance. It's true, too, that these companies are tired of this process and are in critical condition. But that's why we have plenty of tools. And when you mention the protocol, how to work, and so on, I'll tell you it's not new. It's a matter of fact that I've always had a way of working with people who are in trouble, because the companies that are in trouble aren't having a crisis, it's generally that kind of a situation like this. The subject is that there are many more at a crisis, but it is not alone in crisis. At this moment, when you're in the habit of providing more help than ever, it's built to maintain, to increase, to make new investments, to make international investments, and so on, but also to keep the companies and people in trouble that might be useful. Our entire industrial policy is essentially aimed at increasing the competitiveness of our industrial sector, obviously using concepts such as investment, employment generation, industrialization and internationalisation. But it is, in short, a set of tools available to our entire company and that, managed proactively, can make a company that is more or less competitive. However, today we want to focus on business situations in times of crisis, as you rightly said. And this kind of crisis can be of two types. It can be short-term, precisely as a result of a global crisis like the one we have experienced, or structural, because of other problematic situations. I have already commented on this on some previous occasions, but these kinds of situations are dealt with by the Basque Government from two areas of competition. On the one hand, the Department of Employment, which understands in processes of regulation or termination of employment, evaluating the existing regulations and, in accordance with it, the legality, opportunity and proportionality of the measures undertaken by the company. On the other hand, industry, which is subject to the corresponding restrictions by actions of the European Union. The two departments therefore act jointly in these cases. Cases of enterprises with short-term difficulties (problems of a financial, commercial or productive nature with a serious potential impact) are systematically analysed by the department in order to determine whether it is possible to take any financial or brokering action vis-à-vis financial institutions, customers or suppliers to promote the solution (short-term, I insist) that is taking place at that time. If, on the contrary, the case of firms in crisis is of a structural nature, the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness necessarily requires the submission of a solid plan for restructuring and recomposing the conditions of viability in the company, which has a significant amount, an important economic stake on the part of entrepreneurs, and with an agreement of the social part. These measures are reflected in a specific programme called Bideratu Berria, where viability, company involvement and workers' agreement is observed, and in this case government aid comes in, but is limited to small and medium-sized enterprises. If, in spite of all this, companies face insolvency and creditor competition situations, the department's activities focus on favouring the necessary arrangements that will enable such competition to be lifted if the company so wishes, and in which ways it can be found to maintain the activity, looking for an alternative investor who has a project and is able to rescue that competition in whole or in part. We also have the case of large companies and multinationals. This is a special case in this situation, because in Euskadi we have companies with this type of presence, some of them with great root and involvement in the country, and they perform their function as if it were a local company. And, therefore, with them we work in the same way as with the rest, since they are working with a social responsibility and an important territorial involvement. But there is some specific case – and you refer to one of them – that announces total shutdowns of your facilities here suddenly and without sufficiently demonstrated objective reasons. In these cases, as a general principle, the department works on the assumption that they are large multinationals that can provide alternative solutions to closure, because they are decisions that are taken far away, on most occasions without taking into account the competitiveness of the specific facility located in Euskadi, simply with the aim of cutting losses that are occurring, and that, of course, it is possible to find alternative solutions. And in these cases we are really demanding with that company, and we do not give up until they present an alternative solution, because we consider that they can and should offer it. In these cases we also try to listen to the opinion of the workers, from the point of view of both Employment and Industry, who are the ones who have the most knowledge of the company, trying to look for this concrete alternative to the company that is in the situation of leaving the territory. If it is not possible to find such a reversal measure of the decision to leave, because no adjustment measures can be found incorporating agreed staffing adjustments, reductions in production costs and so on, which improves the competitive position of the company, the second option is to sell the activity and succession to investors who have solid projects to be located in that company and to continue it. And as a third option, if this is not possible, at least the start-up by the company of a specific employment plan and a commitment incorporating recruitment incentives and training measures that minimises the impact of the closure decision. This is what you call an industrialization plan. The whole of these activities represents a very important volume, a huge volume of work, hundreds of meetings and contacts at all levels with the company committees, with entrepreneurs, with potential investors, with suppliers, with financial institutions... This is what you used to say "lubakian sartu." No lubakian sartuta dago such a bear bat. We have a specific service that evaluates each of the cases, proposes the appropriate measures and tries to find a solution to each of the situations. And it is a necessary and important task to which we devote a great deal of effort, which does not always achieve results, but that in some of the cases that have been dealt with in this House, such as that of Fundiciones San Eloy, that of Holtza, that of Fagor or that of Kider, it has been possible to try not to close those companies and to continue their activity. There are many more, but of course these are some of the clear examples in which we have worked. This is a solution that has been working on for a long time, and, as you have seen, of course, well structured methodologically. It is not a question of loose actions, of individual actions, but of a very clear methodology of operation. And, just by responding to two specific aspects, of course, as you read the press and say that certain trade unions say I attend many events, it is true, but I also have a lot of private meetings, including with one of the trade unions that appear there. But, well, I keep them in privacy, because that's how I think it's more important to work it out concretely. And as far as the specific case of Countess is concerned, we have obviously also worked with the workers. And, by the way, they were in favour of the solution that is on the table right now, that Arcelor be done with the company. It was his priority choice, even though I'm going to tell him it wasn't our first choice as a government. However, we bet on what they considered most important. It is difficult to solve, but it is your bet, and we will continue to be making it easier for that bet they made at the time to be conducted, to be renewed if there are problems, and to come to a solution. But I want to insist that it was his priority option, and we are working to get him out even if he is not the Government's priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u67	Then there seems to be a communication problem. You're very close to the workers, but the workers don't seem to know that. Here we have not read superficial complaints; the planning here is very severe. And we know that when people risk their job, they leave the big policy aside and vanquish the pragmatic roads. Then we do not believe that such absolute and violent failures are made only from an ideologized point of view. I think there's something else there. And if a company will say that it wasn't elegacy, that's just a misguided state, that it didn't help, and so on, I've read a few examples here, and there's a lot more about them, I think there's something deep down there. And I, you'll forgive me, but if I have to choose between what the unions say and what you say, I'll believe the unions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u68	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u69	... for the reason I mentioned before: They won't play with their jobs. And we have many instances in which the unions agree with one or the other institution, if they see that the proposals of this institution are useful and useful in defence of their employments. So I don't think it's from an ideological adriorism that runs out of an industrial policy or, specifically, politics with corporations in crisis, but because there really is a real void. And you say you've got a protocol, but I've mentioned a few examples and I can tell you more about the art and other companies where it didn't feel that protocol has been activated. And we're not asking for success here. We know there are times when things are done well, but they don't get results. What we're asking is that when you get to a company like that, the workers say, "Well, we felt our protection, we felt our help, we felt everything we could do. And then, like you said, "there's a investor here, or he didn't come, or we saved the company, or we didn't save him, but we've all been involved here and we've discovered this closeness and warmth from the institutions." And that's why I said we could call Candy's first case a success for the moment, because I'm conscious of the feeling that the working people have today. And the workers know that their future is not yet guaranteed, and that there are many questions to ask, and we're not here to play with feelings or hopes, and that this is settled because there's still so much work left and there's a lot of intelligence. But there's one possibility and it's viable, and they're all involved. And there's been a partnership, rarely seen in this town, for a project to be carried on. And that's where the same corporation has engaged, as a multinational corporation, and has engaged some commitments, where the workers and the company are engaged, the council itself and Aldudia themselves. But the one that wasn't there is in the Eukong, and that's because he saw the Aldundia don't do what you had to do to save that company, and there's another institution that has to be put in front of that lack of pastities and shares. And about this institution, as I said before, it will be said that it has succeeded in bringing in the investor or not, but it can never be said that it has washed its hands in front of the problem. And I think there's a clear example there, and I'm telling you again, if that protocol is applied, there's a problem, because in many cases, the object of that protocol and the benefits of that protocol must be obtained (not in all cases is phepirate too, in some cases problems have been solved, but in many cases) they don't understand so closely and so warmly for their interests. Then I think we have serious doubts there. And in conclusion, I will say, you often seem to see your head as an audience, what you say in deportive terms is "cer la statue," pass "mirar croo el Balon." And it's the day we ask you to stretch out your hand and try to stop it. You can't always figure it out, but society has to be convinced and clear perception that in front of any job business there's a Red Mitch next to the workers, mindful, defending the job. And that is what now exists or does not exist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u70	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u71	Mr. Casanova, for the first time, I did not speak of anything in my whole speech against the ideological or dedication of ariorism. And I also understand that in such complicated situations such things are said more than once, because when one sees his job in doubt, it's logical to do so. So I understand, too. But what I don't understand... You say: "In some cases they get along, and often they don't notice we're near." I'd say in general we're doing the same job with everybody. In some cases it's more complicated than in others, and maybe they don't notice it. That, after all, as you have mentioned, is to be noticed and felt, and I will not go against it. I do not say whether we do or not; we always do the same, and try to solve the problem with this methodology, and sometimes more successful than others. And again I say, not only we: Together with the Eplegu Department, we both work together. But going back to the case you mentioned, because you've repeated Candy's... You didn't mention it here, but there's something in writing that really bothered me. Indeed, in the text I was very drawn to the attention that you were talking about a procedure called "reindustrialisation", which, according to you, is – and I quote textually – "usual in Europe but which is put into practice for the first time in Euskal Herria with Candy company". Mr. Casanova, really, history hasn't started today, not even yesterday. The re-industrialisation procedure linked to areas particularly affected by the crisis, to businesses and so on, has been in operation in this country since the 1980s. In the '80s, in the '90s and now. The reindustrialization procedure to which you referred is that third case that I was commenting on our methodology. When a company leaves, if there is no additional investor, if there is no procedure for starting the company, what is required of the person leaving, who is going to close his company, is a plan of employment and training that allows to reactivate that company in another way. That's what you call a "reindustrialization plan." And, of course, it has been carried out in many companies. There are multiple cases and examples I can give you, and I'm going to give you the last one. And the last one is that of Fagor Electrodomestics himself. The two aspects are incorporated: an employment plan for the relocation of workers, and a project to relaunch industrial activity. That is a reindustrialisation plan; therefore, it has not appeared today, it has existed for a long time. In Candy's case specifically, this department required the multinational to consider the three types of actions, and since the first meeting they said they were leaving at the third; they were not going to continue with the activity at lower costs, they were not going to look for a new investor, but they were leaving. We therefore call on them to make this industrialization plan, because it is their responsibility as a multinational company to go, and to make available to that project the industrial assets and the necessary resources. We also put them in contact (we did the work) with a company specialized in this type of performance, which has already worked in other performances in Gipuzkoa (I will not give the name, but successfully), in others in Euskadi and of course at state level, which is a company specialized only in doing this type of performance, and we were demanding with the company. But, well, it has led to a different formula, in which the multinational is somehow freed from doing that, and there is another solution in which the workers agree. Perfect. We are not going to be the obstacle that will prevent that solution from being real. He knows the Gipuzkoa Diputation, because we have transmitted it and talked to them, that we are ready for a total collaboration, as we have been in another example in Gipuzkoa also, in TS Foundations, where the joint work has been much easier to do than in this particular case. But, of course, the workers, the company, and in this case the Gipuzkoa Diputation as an institution, know that they have us at their full disposal for collaboration. Another thing is that in this project there have been other types of differentiated performances that have not occurred in others, that I will not go into evaluating, because what interests us all is that this is a reality. And we continue to work and knowing that that company that we made available can do that job and it can make a project appear, because time is limited, and what we really care about is that, at that time so limited that all parties have been given, it can be very difficult to find a solution. But we want to be collaborators and proactive, everyone knows that, and we are at full disposal. I am not going to talk in the media, I prefer to work to make the solution possible. And the feelings I understand all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, that Daniel Mazzu Perez, members of the team gathered together, made to the head of economics and competition, about 2020 Eukadic Energy strategy 'fracing'." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u73	Yes, good morning, everyone. And good morning, chief physician. The people of 1030,000, the people who represent a much greater degree of sensibility to society, signed a legislative of the people with a very exact message: "Not Facking." What we're told about this message is that they don't want to get gas out of the hydraulic break or study or exploitation. They don't want to. But, on the contrary, the Euskacacade Power strategy is currently in effect, where it is recorded in the non-commencial gas department that the sector is to be classed, that it's important to explore and explore the reserves of natural gas, and to provide terms and licenses for our current policy. And he continues to maintain that it is necessary to limit and to pacify the duties and periods which are now used in this kind of permission. Does the chairman of the department agree to what the Power Strategy says? Why does he say this? And what steps you're taking to do this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u75	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Mazetu, as you say, is this bill of law which has come from the popular majority in this chamber. We'll have a chance to get different discussions there, and we're quite ready to work on it and see what happens there. But you mentioned the 3E20Y strategy, and I must mention that on December 13th, 2011, the government Council had accepted it and had it brought to this Chamber, and that this was discussed at the Industrial Committee on the 23rd of May 2012, and that it was fully agreed, and that it is in effect. And apart from the initiative you're talking about, he gets another. I should mention two in particular. It says "Inversions in the exploration screens," and "Specations and Terms," it's true. As for the first act, it's fun saying it over and over and over again, and I'll repeat, we defend it to explore the earth's foundation, to know what's...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u76	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u77	...to recognize the potentiality of its energy resources. We are a small people, without any source of energy, we have very punctual things, and therefore it is necessary to know what it is to know what it is, to know how it is to explore it, to make decisions by means of Exodus, of course. That's all we say. As he said, this Government argues and defends and has argued and defended on different occasions that it is necessary to explore the subsoil in order to know the potential of existing resources. Because in this country, in this small country, the indigenous energy resources, the ones available, are not exactly the largest. And what we want is for it to be done with the maximum possible environmental guarantees, but to explore to know, and to know to decide. It would, in our view, be irresponsible to make previous and hasty decisions in one sense or another without having the necessary technical information, and that is why we believe it is necessary to know what is there. As for speeding up deadlines and so on, we are obviously in favour of speeding up deadlines so that all the necessary exploration can be carried out, but since December 2013, following the adoption of the strategy, environmental law requires that any exploratory well be subjected to an ordinary environmental impact assessment, and we do not want to skip it. We are in favour of the deadlines being as short as possible, but, in any case, this Government fully supports the implementation of the most secure policy possible at the global level in this regard. Therefore, explore yes, but with the maximum guarantees, with the maximum that can exist at the global level. And, of course, I would like to stress that it is clear that what we are also seeking is that the oil and gas sector in Euskadi is important and we are strengthening it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u79	Yes, counselor, the problem is that we and we believe that you are playing with words not to tell the truth to the citizenry. You explore, you want to explore to explode. And the decision is made, and we think it is. And I'm gonna tell you why, and you can probably beat me up, and I don't know if you can convince me. Firstly, because the energy strategy clearly states the radical simplification of the current regulation, the reduction and acceleration of requirements, both for exploration... but also for exploitation. And the energy strategy says so, and it's written down. Because that comes from meetings that Mr Vicuña, president of SHESA, at that time director of SHESA, had with a company (Heyco, American) that is dedicated to fracking, and there is collected that need. Therefore, we believe that those decisions are already made, and are for exploitation. We also believe this because there are 12 million this year in SHESA, but commitments of 30 million euros for the next two years, to explore and we also believe that to exploit: 30 million euros to start the fracking machinery in the Basque Autonomous Community. And that, for example, you have also signed an agreement with Orkestra to analyse incentives for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. And I say "you" because you did SHESA. And we also think about it because you play with words, but when you meet with entrepreneurs you say it clearly: "The Basque government and companies see in fracking a business opportunity". And you say at that meeting, "The oil and gas sector is going to be one of the axes where new markets are going to open up." Just in the exploration? And the vice-counselor says, "Unconventional gas could give us a competitive advantage that we don't take advantage of right now." Just with the exploration? Competitiveness, you talk about competitiveness, you talk about the market, you talk about business, and at no time do you talk about the environmental impact and the zero cost reversal that this technique can have in society. Therefore, we believe that the decision is made, and that you have taken it in favor of the hydraulic fracture for the extraction of unconventional gas. Anyway, one last question: when you explore, and you know what results you're going to get, what are you going to take into account when deciding whether to explode or not?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u81	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Mazetu, you think half of them are corrupt, whatever you think, and what I think. I'm not going to persuade you, I'm sure, but I'm sure I'm going to have two things to say. One, when we mention that we work around the area of the olive and gaz, and that we think there is a possibility there, we don't mean this here, in the Euskalkadin area, which you know is in the world's level, and we have skits that are dedicated to the Eukadin tubes (Tubos Renodos, Tubax), those who are debuted on the tiles (like Ampo), and there are so many of us in the Euscadin. So there's a sector that's important. And we'll continue to work to make that sector really competitive, not just here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Mr. Carmelo Barrio Barkio Barroja, member of the Populale team, to the head of economics and contestations as to the case of the city." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, all of you, counselors. Hiriko, Hiriko again. The answers to Mr López de Munain and Mr Maneiro have been there, but I believe that there are even more dimensions that the Government can be asked about. We were already talking at the time that the Government always has responsibilities in monitoring industrial policy, and we realize that Hiriko is not what it seems, is what it is. And sometimes all this, the attitude of the government, reminds us a little bit of that famous American series, "Expedient X": "The truth is out there," and sometimes it was also said, like another of the phrases in that series, "The government denies all knowledge." But, well, in any case, here we are faced with a series of commercial companies supported exclusively by public money, which have had a business function, a corporate failure absolutely with public money. We have already seen the attitude of the Álava Prosecutor's Office towards the failed, fraudulent business fiasco of Hiriko. The prosecutor's conclusive written statement makes the tax complaint for six offences: misappropriation of public funds, documentary falsehood, fraud, fraud of public subsidies to the administration, misappropriation, money laundering. It shows that something very serious has happened with public money. And this is a hard blow for our industrial policy, for our companies, for our entrepreneurial business, industrial image. The brand and image of the Basque business economy can be seriously affected by these kinds of issues. And in this sense we want to ask you: What will the Basque Government do to clean up the Basque business image after the judicial dimension of the Epsilon and Hiriko scandals (industrial policy, Basque Government, responsibility in monitoring ), and of the correct march of our companies, counselor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u84	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u85	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Barrio, starting at the end. Of the correct march of the companies of this country... I'd like to be responsible for everyone, but I think it's impossible. I'm not the president of the board of directors or anything like that. I will help you, as has always been done in this Government, with all the instruments and all the help that may be possible to make them viable, competitive, able to make new investments, new facilities, and that in times of difficulty, as I have previously responded, we stand by your side. Apart from that, I think I cannot act further, because it is not my responsibility; they are private companies, as you very well know. Secondly, as I have said to Mr Casanova, as far as the Basque Government is concerned, I have no doubt that R & D aid was given correctly to this project, EUR 2.65 million, because the results are there. And I'm not going to repeat it again, because it's a little tired of repeating the same thing again. In this case it was a R & D project in the aid of this Basque Government, and this was carried out. You are now in court, and I repeat again, Mr Barrio, where is the presumption of innocence? Are we going to get ahead of what's going to happen in that lawsuit? How many lawsuits and how many lawsuits have been initiated, put in the hands of the judge, and have not resulted in anything? We are going to let it work, and if it is necessary this Government will be in person. It's not the situation today. And whoever intends to confuse and mix it all up, Mr. Barrio, it's you. Who is equaling a possible problem, a presumed problem, with the whole Basque industry, truly competitive, recognized in the world for its good doing? Who's troubling you? You with this question! You with this question! There's no hard hit or anything like that at all. First, because it has not been proved, first, because we are going to let work on judicial proceedings. I will therefore make it very clear, Mr Barrio, that this Government will continue to do what it has done for so long, for thirty-five years: to be with the company, to put in place all the necessary aid, all the cooperation at our disposal, all the financing programmes and instruments that promote new investment and new generation of employment. That's what we're going to do, and don't pretend I'm going to change my policy. I think that's the right one, it's been shown to be so, and there we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u87	Thank you, President. I of course want you to change your policy, so that there are no failures like those of Epsilon and Hiriko! Of course I want to! I have already commented to you before that the result has been a corporate failure, an unprecedented corporate failure: a first minimum course of research, in addition to not own research, but supported in the purchase of research and project, and then a failure in approval, industrialization, marketing and strategic investment, feasibility projects. And that, that you have to recognize and you have to get involved in this issue, in these two business fiascos that have been lately... All you have to do is read the press and the comments of the press, sepia and white, what these issues have been and what they have affected. And you do have to do something there. And you, of course, have to get involved. The Spanish Court of Auditors now, following the committee of inquiry and the conclusions and recommendations, is going to be involved, and has already said that in its 2015 programme the control of all aid, economic subsidies... I mean, there will be a good data, of course, that needs to be done, like other issues. But you, Mrs Tapia, have to get involved. You have to get involved as you got involved – plus you two, the two who are sitting – in your day (in 2009, in 2010, in 2011) with the amendments you submitted to the budgets, as the PNV got involved in your day. And they were part of the problem on all these issues, so we have seen: two amendments, EUR 9 million, another amendment EUR 5,700,000... Well, let's see, you got involved in your day, and now we ask you to get involved, because the proper development of this issue and of recovering all this is what will give you the good image for the real Basque company. You guys think you're draining the lump, and you shouldn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u88	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u89	Mr Barrio, you have said one thing I fully agree with: it is a corporate failure, not the research project financed by the Basque Government. These are two really different things, even if you intend to mix them. Secondly, you say that it is now a good fact that the Government of the State has now realized and placed in the hands of the State's lawyer to return the aid. Now? Now? Where has the monitoring and monitoring of such aid been since 2010? Where have you been? The Basque Government analysed each year the aid that was being provided and whether the milestones were being met. Where has the Government of the State been, if so far it has not realized? Just like everyone else would have to look at their home and analyze exactly where the problems are. The difference is clear in this case: the Basque Government has followed up this research project in detail. And there is no irregularity there, not demonstrated so far, I insist, and from now on we will see. Don't look for the photo, Mr. Barrio, don't look for the photo right now, when a few years ago a whole series of people from your party didn't question the project. At that time the picture was taken as the most enthusiastic next to Hiriko's electric vehicle. The current mayor of Vitoria, the deputy general of Álava... They're in some pictures! You won't see me in one of those pictures. You were enthusiastic about this project at the time. Where's your follow-up been? Where have you been? Apply the story, and follow the project from the beginning. This Government always does so, and with all the projects.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Viente Reyess Martinka Socialists, made to the head of economics and contestations on the left and the East and the Oarso in aid of a productive industrial conversion." Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u91	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Ten days ago, I heard her announce during her speech at an economic forum in Bilbao that her department is finalising a plan for aid to productive industrial investment in two areas declared disadvantaged by the European Union: the Left Margin in Bizkaia, and Oarsoaldea in Gipuzkoa. However, you refused to give more details on the content of the plan, hiding that the European Commission's approval is still lacking, and noted that it could be adopted in the summer. That is why I ask you, in order to complete this information, what objectives the Government is pursuing with this investment aid plan that you have stated is preparing for the regions of the Left Margen and Oarsoaldea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u93	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Reyes, as you said, the Community's regional development policy is reflected in different regional aid regulations, and above all it is based on discriminating between those areas which are most disadvantaged, where there is less industrial activity, where more unemployment is generated, trying to promote such industrialization and employment generation than it is a territorial balance. To this end, the European Commission regularly draws up a map of regional aid in order to promote this balanced development in each of the territories, in each of the regions. The Basque Country is generally among the most developed or qualified regions, where aid levels, if there is a problem, can be given more intensively. Except in certain municipalities such as the margin of the Nervion and Oarsoaldea, it could not be helped to implement investment projects of large companies, but only of SMEs, and, I insist, in very specific areas, in the period of previous programming. In the middle of last year (i.e. in 2014) the European Commission communicated a new map of regional aid, covering from 2014 to 2020, which expands the number of municipalities in the Basque Country in which it allows these investment incentives to be applied, and also expands the object. In other words, not only SMEs, but what is called medium-sized enterprises. The municipalities now authorized are: Sestao, Ortuella, Trapaga, Abanto, Muskiz, Zierbena, Portugalete, Santurtzi, Barakaldo, Alonsotegi and Erandio, and in Gipuzkoa Renteria, Pasaia, Lezo, Oiartzun, Hondarribi, Irun and Hernani. The harmonious and balanced development of the different regions of Euskadi, of course, is an objective for us all, and we intend to carry out and implement this type of specific aid, for which we are working. We are finalising the design of this new programme, which we have to send to the European Union for authorisation, but I can bring forward some specific aspects that we are working on. For large companies, aid will amount to up to 10% of the new investment, and for SMEs it can amount to 20%. That is, let us say in broad terms, which covers the regional aid that at the moment allows us to give Europe. It should also be noted that there are no municipalities in the state at the moment, since the map drawn up by the European Union is based on unemployment data for 2012 and, consequently, none of these municipalities appear. But these are the broad lines that we are working on right now: municipalities, small and also medium-sized enterprises, and with 10% and 20% for new deployments and new jobs that can be generated in those places that we may consider to be more disadvantaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u95	Yes, counselor, but that's not explaining the project, which is what we expected here today. He cannot argue that he does not need Brussels' approval, because the money is put by the Basque Government. And the only information he has given me is that the aid will amount to 10% in large companies, yes, and in medium-sized companies it can be increased to 20%, and in small companies to 30%, and the maximum eligible investment is 50 million... The guidelines we know. I wasn't asking him to tell me an aspect of the guidelines we all know. You know, therefore, what margins you count on in articulating that investment plan. So why don't you tell us what's important, when you make a promise of the kind you've made to regions with the needs you have, which is how much money the Basque Government is willing to put on the table for those investments? Because that doesn't require any satisfaction! It is the political intention, and within the margins that you know perfectly well. What budget line will that money come from? And, also, what criteria will you set to guide the nature of investments, which is also important? Or whether the creation of jobs or the innovation associated with such investments will somehow modulate the amount of such aid. That is to say, basic questions to be established if someone is finalising, as you say, a project to implement aid in these disadvantaged areas. Why don't you tell us? Why not concretely, when it can and should advance, at least in summary form, the content and objectives of the plan? On these pre-electoral dates, to us all that you must say and have to know and does not say smells of an electoral promise that can stay in little or nothing, unless you really say now how much money you are going to put at stake, under what conditions, where you are going to get it, where you are going to direct it... That's what you need to know if you're finishing the project you want to start. And a curiosity, if I may, counsel: when did you realize that these regions have these needs, when the European Union approved the exception a year ago so that such aid could be made possible? In conclusion, this is not the first time I've told you in this gallery, but I think you need to put aside those commercials, those advertising tours, and manage more. And in these regions, it is true that something has begun to be done within the framework of employment plans, by the agreement, by the impetus that we Socialists have given to work, to investment in employment in those regions, but in these aids, which are important investments, which can be useful, we must know whether it is true or not what it is saying, and in what terms, to make it credible. They're comarcas you can't play with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u96	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u97	Mr Reyes, whenever we talk about new industrial deployments in this case, as you rightly say, and the regional aid map has been read – and I couldn't expect anything else from you, because things are usually read in detail – it obviously appears that they have to be productive investments. I mean, what are we gonna do first? For, as always, the generation of employment of a certain quality, obviously linked to an investment, with a participation of a significant technological innovation. He pointed out to me that when we realized it. Well, we figured it out when he showed up. And, if you read the budgets we are presenting, it is true that there is no specific item, because we still did not know if we would be able to do so, but it is in the text that we are willing to do so. And at the moment we are negotiating, through the budgets available to the department to make investments in companies, to be able to activate around 8 million euros for this year for new deployments. But it's already collected in the budgets. Then we put ourselves to it already last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "Interregation, the state of the EHGG of the Belsen Rocks, the lawmakers of the Society, the chief physician of the Society, the state of the public service of teleportation." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u99	Good morning, thank you. Good morning to all of you, and particularly to-day, this new chief of the Eplegus and Polic Society, who is now at your first meeting. As the head physician knows, according to the law of the Baraba, Biziko, and Gimpian Services, before July 1st, 2011, the telegraph service which was in the hands of the Forum and the Gastei City (this service addressed to the principals) was always taken upon him by the Eukkion. As has been the case, the public services have been preserved as a politician to sterilize, and the management of this service was assigned to the Televida-GSR commercial company by a lititation of the present day's "UTE GSR-Televida." Ever since then the service has been worse (if we consider as a starting-point in Biscaia, and the present service, we must remember, that this was the basis of the whole service in some way, the service in Biscay). Service quality has been a constant loss this time and workers' work conditions have obviously turned worse. It is not the first time today that we discussed the status of the service and the employees of the service. In May 2013 the workers were representatives of Eplegu and Society Committee, describing the state of service and making several requests. But, you know, it's been years since, but, uh, fun has done nothing to finish all the injustices that happen in the service, to guarantee the quality of the service and to secure the necessary control. Propaganda did. He has appeared in the media, especially the chief physician of the preceding department, and has often been praised by Mr. Aburto, without explaining the real reality, and, which is the most urgent, without taking any precautions to find out and direct solutions to the existing affairs. Now, it couldn't have been otherwise, the workers were bored (they've been accused of the situation, they've even appealed to the inspection of Work, even to this legislature), and they're doing mutations. On February 7 days they've struck, and they've got more work to do for March if you don't find a solution first. But what's the status of the service service? What's the problem? The workers, when they were at the committee (which was almost two years ago, more than half a year ago), plainly explained, and this year at the 30th of January, they tell us that they are in the same or worse condition in the document sent to the legislature. The quality of the service has been broken by progressives and by workers since the funk of the service has taken possession of their rights and placed their management in the hands of a company. On the one hand, the user/ worker ratios are not set. This is a very significant fact: before that, in the Biscay Service, they were 88 workers for 13000 users, and now they're about 115 workers for the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipu. And the users are more than 330,000. The number of users has multiplied, many times (it goes up indefinitely, and will go on for the next few years), and the number of workers has not been increased in the same proportion at a distance. And that sounds really embarrassing to us. Public institutions, public administration, fun, would have to be a pioneer to promote social employment. We've said this many times because we really believe in it because that's how it should be from our point of view. After all, even in order to create employment (because it's really necessary in some areas and it's necessary) I'm sure it can take steps and it doesn't take them today. It's just one of those TV aids. And what can we say about service quality? Only in 2014, in ten months (in October from the South), he took over the services 3.012, and the plantain to respond to them in the correct way? Nowhere, there isn't. That's why quality, service quality, is being damaged. Some examples. Since there is not enough personnel, the time of the appeals given to users has been reduced, and time remains almost alone, "Hi, how are you? To say "good-bye." In the first place, when someone fell into the house, there were two people who could move, and so on; now, for the most part, there was too much to do with a person. On the other hand, we have worker's terms. When the management of the service in 2011, the company ceased to apply the treaty to Bitz, which had this precedent, and received the State treaty, which was also shameful. The result is that he has established different conditions of wages and labor among the workers, at least three degrees of salary, scale, and at least at the present day among the workers. For the past four years, there hasn't been a salary rate, it's not logical, in our point of view, not even fair. In the budget, in the budgets of 2015, one million dollars has been added to this service, that is, six million to seven million. We asked Mr. Aburto at his own moment whether the addition of that money would bring charges against the employees whether they were finishing the situation or at least taking a few steps in that direction. To tell you the truth, the answer made us think of the refusal as often as we did. And that's how it was. That's a year's company still has its stock, and this one, too, is incomprehensible. As has been said before, with the object of seeking a solution to this situation, the workers are in mutation. And besides, they've done a lot of demands that are just for us, and I'm going to repeat them here because it seems to us that, as a matter of fact, it's all right to do something about it. It's time for you to get a hold of the public cable service, and we agree, as I said, with the request. There's no reason to stay in the hands of an out-of-town company. The costs are not smaller, the quality has been lowered and the workers' work conditions have gone wrong. So you have to take steps in that direction. And as long as that's done, I'm sure it's supposed to be an active part of this negotiation to push the situation around. It is necessary to encourage the collective compact of the local community, or the collective compact of the company, that it is not alone capable of an inspection; we are speaking of corporations and services provided with public funds. And as long as it continues to be eternated, at least in the United States this compact must become a necessary condition. And lastly, we have already mentioned the necessary application of the former men and workers. What has the company been doing in front of this request so far? Nothing. Worse still: he tells the workers that he will make no proposal until the mutation has left him, and that he will not negotiate. It doesn't seem like he's had a chance before these years. And what did you do? Look at the other side, it looks like it has nothing to do with the service, and we don't share that attitude at all. I also want to remind you that a large set of workers working at the TV service came from special jobs centers. And many things are spoken of inclusium, but often there are other criteria in the intercourse of industry, of the criteria founded on the patricianism, and this is not fair. And that's why we're in an intern, today's day, the chief physician: What specific size will AMK take to ensure the quality of the service and improve the status of the workers?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u101	The head of the table, members of the legislature, chief of the department, is a good day. Before the ceremony, I would like to make some remarks about the state of personal existence, that is, the quality of the service, and that of the things you have been touching them. You don't think that the government has taken advantage of that service and that's the quality of it. The quality of the service may be measured in an objective way, but we may be aware of the opinion of the ladies of this service. In consideration of the Gestion's department, service is a registered department of the Aenor, and its quality is confirmed by certain documents of the past, of the special rule of broadcasting the services among the walls. There are also ways of making public control of the service, which you have already filed for public opposition. On the one hand, the monthly review, and on the other the complete transparency of the service's snooze, could be introduced into any informal application. In the course of the year, Mrs. Belén, a beautiful dot, was made perfect on a 5, four, seven. For us this survey has great value, which tells us how the recipients perceive the service they receive. Year after year the positive evaluations are repeated – and I do not want to make any more value of it – always very high, it is true, with the difficulty of reaching such levels of satisfaction in a public service. There is, therefore, no deterioration in the provision of tele-assistance, at least as users say. But, if the survey was not enough, there is also a wide range of quality requirements for the contracting company required by Osatek, on the other hand, which is the public company of the Basque Government which is dependent on the Department of Health, which has the service and which contracts the service. For example, 100% attention to incoming calls. Since the start of the service, 100 % has been reached every month. Secondly, 80% of calls are answered in less than twenty seconds. Ba Bai, Bethlehem andrea: it has been achieved in six seconds. A renovation of the legacy technology park, which was out of warranty and were obsolete models, has been carried out. Equipment with a manufacturing date of 2005 and earlier has been replaced. At present there are 32,210 devices corresponding to the two most advanced models on the market, and it can be said that the existing device fleet guarantees a weekly check of its proper functioning. Advanced teleassistance services are provided. Smoke and gas detectors are installed. These systems were only used in Bizkaia when the service was the competence of the foreign parliament; they are now used in our entire area of competence. Today it reaches around 15% of users of Araba and Bizkaia and 10% of Gipuzkoa, although in this territory it is significantly increasing its installation in order to achieve its homogenization in this respect. In addition, it has been endowed with a social and health dimension which it lacked, or very little before the Basque Government took over competition. Coordination with the health system has, for example, enabled, first, more than two thousand referrals to the health council, a telephone council headed by nurses from Osakidetza, with a 27 % increase over the previous year. Secondly, 775 appointments of primary care have been made through the service, resulting in an increase of 13%. A group of users has received a fall detector, important for the elderly, integrated in the push button, which will allow an analysis of these actions. 70,000 influenza vaccination campaign follow-up calls have been made. More examples could be provided, but I believe that it cannot be objectively denied that the service has advanced and improved much in these years. On the other hand, in relation to working conditions, the workforce is made up of 120 people, an absolute figure that has been maintained stable, and it is important to note that over time there has been an increase in the number of fixed staff, with the additional decrease of any staff. The subordinate staff of the company Igon, which was the provider of the service of the Diputación de Bizkaia, maintains each and every point of its previous agreement, i.e. economic and social conditions, such as permits and breaks, in addition to everything that can be improved in the current implementing agreement. And, with regard to staff with reduced hours, the company facilitates the hours from nine to two and from two to seven, for those who need such hours for family reconciliation. Since 1 January this year, the flexible check-in schedule is available to all service support staff. The number of training hours given to staff last year was almost 5,000 hours (4.845), compared to 1,700 in 2013. As far as overtime is concerned, any overtime due to emergency care is always compensated in time for the workers. Other measures not provided for in the current agreement have been taken, such as improving the conditions of staff; a gradual reduction in working hours has been made, to the same extent as those of subordinate staff (i.e., from 1,792 to 1,650). This has been done from September 2012 to September 2014, and now a plus is paid for shift work, which accounts for 11% of the base salary. New technologies have increasingly been introduced to support and develop the work of integration coordinators, teleoperators and mobile unit technical staff. Finally, a job adjustment has been made to ensure that persons with disabilities are able to perform the functions entrusted to them. I understand, however, that we are now in a negotiating process, and all the negotiating processes are difficult and conflicting between staff and the company, and that there are disagreements and discrepancies between them. We, as it cannot be otherwise, in addition to being responsible for the service and labour authority in this case too, are trying to resolve this conflict in a way that satisfies the interests of the workers in the context of our competences and possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u102	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u103	Thank you for the answer. I see that you too, like the chief physician, think that we are really a very good service, that the telegraph service is excellent, that there is no gap, that there is no cause for any trouble or conflict. I didn't say it's all wrong in the service service, but I said that there's been losses since the service was put on fun at different levels, which I'll confirm again. The data is objective. There are thousands of more users, when the workers don't grow in the same proportion. It is impossible, therefore, that with the same attention, and the proper attention, a much greater number of people should be allowed to surrender in the proper manner. So you're going to have to do the polls, you're going to do some more satisfaction. We know what kind of people these services are: old men, who are in many cases dependent, are easily satisfied with any thing, because they need everything, and more. I think, then, that the opinion of workers in these satisfactions ought to be considered in a certain degree of quality, not only by such data, however important to the services users, but not only by them. Therefore, in saying this, I wish to confirm some of the things above mentioned. It's not acceptable to us that these workers should be in this situation, it's not fair to be under the state contract a collective one, it's not acceptable to be three different scales for the same work. And you didn't mention it. You have mentioned, that some of those who came from Bizkai, at their own time, have retained those rights; but that is why they are under three different conditions of labour for the same labour, some are under the contract of the State, and this must be given a solution, which is not now a good solution, but which is not at present laid upon the table. Besides, you have not mentioned it, and I wish to strengthen this idea: such services are sometimes sterilized, they are privatized, led to subcontradiction. It's always said that there's less costs and things like that. We think it's not like that, and that's why it's the reason we feel funk can secure all this in a better way, and not in the hands of a few thirds of the kind of management. And therefore it seems to us that there is time for us to resume the direct management of certain (reternised services, among which) to manage the administration, and to manage the quality of services, and the conditions of the workmen directly, and to direct its attention. Again, we would have another thing to be said before. In the markets, when it is digested, when the other step is not taken, there must be at least a few. At this moment, there's that on the table, too, where social clauses have to appear, and so on. We find it shameful that at this time we do not consider such things as those in the service under the Administration. So what do we want you to do directly? As long as you're the head of police society and you don't look at anything else, it's just fun and it's not just a company. We ask you to meet with workers, to listen to the subject, with companies and workers, to encourage negotiations, and to agree with everything that can be done, as I said before, while management returns to direct, as I have said in the Plaudies, to keep and provide terms for, and to provide for, and establish the ratios. After all, what we're asking you to do is fulfill your work, keep it well, support the workers, because we think it'll be for everyone's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u105	I know, Belén, that we'll do better than that, and we'll go on with it. I understand that in the public service of teleassistance adequate conditions are offered (I do not want to be pretentious, and I will remove the "very adequate"). It has a contrasted quality, serves as a reference model for other communities, is a pioneer in its socio-sanitary dimension, and, most importantly, reasonably serves users, who are satisfied. We must also say – and I am with you – that with the modulation that must be made of the answer of an older person. With regard to staffing, which concerns you, Bethlehem (we are concerned about everyone, and I too), I consider that it guarantees the working conditions of the people who make up it, but I understand that from the social side there are claims on which there is no agreement with the subcontracted company. We have mediated to set minimum services, we have mediated to avoid unemployment days, and we will continue to mediate to try to reach an agreement between the company and the workers. And you know, Bethlehem, that's what I've understood in my past life a little bit. Teleassistance workers, because we think it's a great service. I believe that the quality of service and its future are guaranteed. I believe that the rights of workers are not going to be violated, and we will ensure that they are not. Nor do I believe that extraordinary measures should be taken to correct the direction of service. The dynamic of continuous improvement in recent years has placed us as a model. Quality service is provided, people are satisfied, workers perform their work with vocation and professionalism. And I believe that through negotiation, which is the only instrument we have in the hands of the parties' autonomy, agreements will be reached that satisfy everyone. And yet, all the members of Bethlehem and of the Parliament will be on top of me, and whether we believe or not, we will do all we can to improve some things that you have said. Not to look the other way, Belén, to look forward with dot.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u106	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpologies made by Bix's Ichasus González, a member of the Basque Sozkalelists, to the Chief of Police and Society, to share the list of jobs." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u107	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselor. On 30 December the Basque Government partially approved the employment relationship of Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service without the mandatory collective bargaining, despite the fact that Article 37(2)(a) of the Staff Regulations provides that "when the consequences of the decisions of the public administrations affecting their organisational powers have an impact on the working conditions of the public officials referred to in the preceding paragraph, they shall negotiate these conditions with the trade union organisations referred to in this Statute". On this issue is what I am going to ask you, Mr. Counsellor, because in addition to the most recent case law, from which I am going to set out the Supreme Court's judgment of 2 December 2010, in which the current obligation to negotiate the employment relationships of the official staff at the negotiating tables... The judgment goes beyond, and notes the lack of negotiation to the full nullity of the RPT, because it affects the fundamental right of collective bargaining. And I am going to add a paragraph to it, which reads: "If, as is stated in the proceedings, a consultation procedure was offered to the trade unions in the procedure for drawing up the RPT, in which they made allegations, a valid procedure in force under Law 9/87, in which the dimension of self-organisation power prevailed, however (in the case before it) there was no genuine collective negotiation through the appropriate instrument, which is the negotiating table, which allows, inter alia, that the reasoning of the representatives of officials can be taken into account when drawing up the contested provision. Therefore, since it is a requirement related to the exercise of a fundamental right, its absence should be valued as equivalent to the omission of an essential incardinable procedural procedure in article 62.1 (e) of Law 30/92 on Administrative Procedure". Counselor, the same unions that supported you in the episode that preceded your appointment, the same unions argue that there has been no negotiation in the employment relationship that has been partially approved. And there is some evidence of that, because in the hearing proceedings of 525 allegations only 23 have been taken into account, and only one concerned the RPT. A partial RPT has been approved, recognizing posts for 180 workers and leaving 738 with uncertainty about their location, salaries, the posts they are going to occupy, etc. Through the approval of this partial RPT, posts of Lanbide area officials are being consolidated, on which they are found not to be in accordance with the law, by revoking them and condemning them to the reversion of the process. This RPT consolidates posts which, being reserved only for Group A, are occupied by Group B staff, without a process justifying it. Through the approval of this partial RPT, it is being consolidated as fixed labour personnel to whom before the start of Lanbide's activities there was a relationship of indefinite labour personnel. In the end, only the RPT is made for central offices, which are precisely the least public service providers. There is also a growing concern, which should be banished, about the possibility, mere hypothesis, that certain Lanbide plots, such as the orientation, could be outsourced in the future. I believe, Mr Councillor, that this is also an opportunity to dispel doubts about this and to banish that hypothesis, if it is plausible. Otherwise, there are service needs that don't seem to be being treated by the department you run in the RPT, and I'm going to give you two examples. The first, that there is something like Zuzenean, attention to the public: the people who enter the offices of Lanbide are served by a security guard who directs them. This we believe is not possible and not acceptable; that is, in the offices of Lanbide there must be work personnel or official personnel who are the ones who run the window or the negotiated ones corresponding to the users, and not the security personnel. Another example I'll give you. The staff complain that they lack sufficient training and information, because, in fact, it is often the users who are explaining to the staff member or to the staff who attends the window on help lines that they do not know. There should therefore be a greater flow of information and training for staff, so that they know all the lines of help that are being set up. The trade unions mentioned represent 100 per cent of the sectoral table of the General Administration of the Basque Country, and all of them claim that there has been no negotiation. Many meetings do, but effective negotiation does not. They also claim that it is intended to undertake the subsequent coverage of the posts created, which has outraged the social side and its representation. Obviously, all this, Mr. Counsellor, is going to have a very negative impact on the service. In addition, we are announced that the whole process, or those that have been initiated under these conditions, will be brought to justice. We therefore believe, Mr Councillor, that this risk should be avoided at all costs, because, as you will know for these hours, Lanbide's genesis is constituting a calvary, an endless viacrucis, and a public employment service requires the best conditions for its operation. If not, as his predecessor in office also said at a time when he did not find a job relationship that could be approved peacefully, Mr. Aburto pointed out that Lanbide's strategic plan would not make sense, it would not be possible to carry it out. That is why the question we put to you is accompanied by a request. I first ask you to withdraw that partial RPT which you have approved. And the question, as it cannot be less in this procedure, is finally formulated, and is: What are the reasons why the Government approved without the perceptive collective and partial negotiation of the employment relationship of Lanbide?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u108	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Itxaso, I have carefully read the justification and content of your inquiry, as well as the content of the various appearances of representatives of the department and of Lanbide, both in this plenary and in committee, in addition to the different written replies that we have been sending. Of all this I can only conclude two things that you, who have followed from very close the fate of Lanbide during this legislature, know perfectly well. The first, which is not this Department of Employment and Social Policy, is responsible for negotiating the RPT (I thought it was clear), but the Department of Public Administration and Justice within the General Bureau of the Basque Administration. The second one. From what I'm told, and I believe in what I'm told, that it's been negotiated, and that you know it. This week I have just concluded a process of introductory meetings with employers and trade unions, and, although it was not the subject of the meetings, because, as I said, it is not this department that is responsible for it, some trade union forces mentioned this issue of the RPT. I did not enter into the matter, but I did get a clear conclusion: negotiation, there has been. Although I am aware that reaching agreements and meeting sometimes contradictory demands among themselves, sometimes among the unions themselves, is not always easy. Sometimes it is very difficult, or simply impossible, and what is impossible neither does God want. As I have said, if you want details of how the negotiating process has gone, ask who it is. Perhaps I am not, in my capacity as Employment and Social Policy Advisor, the best person to answer some of the questions you have asked. In summary, I would just like to say that more than twenty formal meetings have taken place at the negotiating table between the Department of Public Administration and Justice and the trade union side throughout this process, with many other informal contacts undoubtedly to be added. It is up to us to design Lanbide's organizational model, to make Lanbide a more effective tool in managing social resources, in supporting unemployed people and in brokering recruitment. On the basis of this organizational model, it has been decided to approve the two-stage job relationship. The first, to which you have referred, affects 180 posts that are either vacant or are newly created units. And I'll give you, for example, the Internal Control Unit, in addition to the headquarters. The most urgent at the moment was the structure of Lanbide's chain of responsibility. That's where it started. With regard to the control unit, the most relevant novelty is already created, and we are in the process of selecting the head office and members of the unit, so that within one month we hope it will be fully operational. And I say let's wait because naturally this also depends on whether there can be paralysis in the process of allocation of places, because if in the meantime internal remedies are presented by the workers themselves, and with all their rights, affected workers could see that this process is being delayed again. The second phase will affect the posts that constitute the basic structure of each office in Lanbide, i.e. guidance or guidance, employment and training technician, general administration technician, administrative or administrative technician, and assistant. Our purpose in relation to this RPT was, first, to clarify by simplifying the structure of the offices and homogenising them. In order to be effective, an office must have at least one head of the office, one or a counsellor, one or a job and training technician, one or an administrative officer, and one or an assistant. This implies that, for example, the smallest office in existence today, Oyon, will be replaced by two jobs for those five that I have just described. Based on this minimum structure, the allocations for each of these posts have been quantified on the basis of a technical study of workloads and other qualitative aspects of each office. A more in-depth study of the restructuring of geographical areas and its internal dimension remains for the coming years. For example, we will need to review the existence of two offices in Basauri, in Lasarte or in Irun, or our own endowments based on the experience offered by the new organization we carry out, or the new needs of our society in terms of employment and social policies. Secondly, we need to set up territorial offices. These units of historical territory will be – we believe so – a key piece in this new organization, and in proposing its creation we are thinking of supporting local offices in terms of being close elements in solving problems, in supporting local offices in peaks of activity that exceed the possibilities of the offices themselves. We replace unwanted organizational solutions, such as outsourcing, with other integral and integrated solutions in the organization. We try to cement the organization, to lay foundations for it; to make general instructions consistent with local needs; to collect these needs in order to generate general criteria of action; to ensure the fulfilment in each historical territory of the objectives of the agency; to adjust the actions to each of its realities, both social and institutional, and to resolve the difficulties of relationship with institutions and entities of historical territory. We will have a unit that will systematize these relationships. In short, and I am finishing, we aim to create a model for the management of aid and programmes; we aim to promote the definition of our own active employment policies; we aim at the fair use of public funds; fourthly, we seek to achieve an integrated model of training for employment in the Basque Country, also supporting vocational training, and, finally, we try to create an efficient service for Basque people and citizens. And one last point, since I have time, about security personnel in the offices. It may not be pleasant for the citizens to see it, but we have been moved from time to time that more than once, sometimes, Lanbide's own workers feel overwhelmed, sometimes even harassed, by some attitudes of citizens, which can be understood given the pressure to which they are subjected in their own situation, but we also have to protect our workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u110	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u111	Mr Councilman, there have indeed been many meetings, of which we do have record, and the trade union centres have at no time denied that fact, that there have been many meetings. However, the sentence that I have read to you, what comes to say, is that such meetings are not enough. There is an imperative need for a strict sensu negotiating table, which is what has not been and is what the trade unions come to say: that there has been no negotiating table, in the strict terms in which a negotiating table is understood. That there have been consultations, that there have been meetings... It is precisely this judgment, which confirms a case-law already repeated, that, in the absence of effective negotiation, such an approval is deemed to be null and void. You have told me something that your predecessor also pointed out to me at the time, and it is the fact that this matter, the RPT, actually rests on Public Service, and that argument I opposed in its day and today I oppose the fact that Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service is a negotiated responsibility. The Basque Employment Service is the backbone of any active employment policy. That Lanbide, from its first moment until today, is experiencing a iter plagued with difficulties, plagued with inconveniences, plagued with disagreements that are making unviable, that are making the employment service uneffective, unprestigated. I do not ignore, or intend to ignore, that the government has done a great deal of work, that it has tried to find agreements... all these things. It's yours, and I don't really have to doubt them. But the truth, Mr. Counsellor, is that this Monday there is a day of unemployment called by the 100 percent of the unions; that this preludes to a path to follow very little edifying, which raises very important uncertainties in the progress of the service. That the judicialization of these processes will entice us once again, leaving the service and expectations that it should treasure far removed from an immediate achievement. Finally, I am speaking to you, as it cannot be otherwise, from an eminently political point of view, not so technical, because I would also be a little bit large. What I'm telling you, counselor, is that this is a responsibility that you have as advisor and head of the department. The fact that he is in Public Service is, among other things, because Lanbide was also used as a punching ball at the time. Hence their change of legal nature, which in some way at the time we announced would bring problems of this nature, of lack of operationality. We continue in that effort for that of the fury, but this remains a path full of uncertainties. I am not going to ask you to undo the path you have taken, because I already know that the rectification is not in the political acquis, but what I do say is that that path is full of difficulties, it is full of obstacles, that we were announcing at the time and that the times are proving that they are. Finally, to put that issue aside, and as the status quo of Lanbide stands today, what we are asking you to do is to withdraw that RPT, to try to reach an agreement to make a single RPT that will satisfy all parties, to somehow avoid the judicialization of the process in the future, so that the strategic plan can be put in place as soon as possible. And therefore, Mr. Counsellor, this inquiry is intended, as we might suppose, to lead to a motion. That is to say, we will argue that what has happened here is not a negotiation, in line with what the trade unions say, we will call for the withdrawal of that RPT in the form of a motion, and we hope that there will indeed be agreement with the social side and that agreements can be reached that will enable this matter to be resolved as soon as possible. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u112	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u113	Itxaso jauna, an internal process of reassignment of staff jobs is now complete. A pre-subscription was made to jobs based on the organizational design of Lanbide and each of its offices. From there, a period has been opened for every worker to express his or her preferences as to place and place. To date, I can tell you that the vast majority of requests made will be able to be met. And I insist, there's been negotiation. In the 14 months that the negotiation process and administrative processing has been delayed, improvements have been made to the proposal submitted, some on the proposal of the trade union side, others on the initiative of the Administration. I know very well that the negotiating processes do not satisfy all the parties, and I say to you, Mr Itxaso, yesterday I had the opportunity, following a request from the representatives of the workers of Lanbide, to listen directly to your views and reflections and also to your criticisms of this process. So, I've written them down and I know them. It is the first meeting I have with the representation of workers from a particular group, in this case Lanbide, because I know very well what you have told me, and it is that Lanbide is a strategic body fundamental to the employment and social policies of our department. But to show you that, at least in our opinion, there has been negotiation, I will tell you that the proposal of 814 posts of the RPT in October is added in December 36 more posts, going to a total of 850 (I think I remember that started with five hundred and peak workers), this last increase in administrative appropriations in territorial offices as reinforcement to the territorial processing and the creation of a new office in Donosti. In addition, there is a decrease in the number of auxiliary staff in favour of senior administrative staff. Secondly, 18 additional posts are added to the RPT in May 2014. From 850 we have already moved to 868, and with this the Internal Control Unit is created. Thirdly, in June 2014 an RPT of 918 is proposed, transforming into structural 50 posts that were previously temporary, envisaged in the Lanbide support programme. And also the administrative posts to be extinguished for 26 area chiefs are created. Therefore, between October 2014 and June 2015 the proposal of RPT is improved, increasing by 102 the number of posts, increasing the number of administrative on that of initial assistants, and responding to the requests of the trade union party as regards the heads of area and ordinances. Trade unions also call for the withdrawal of the RPT. I heard him yesterday. I didn't go to call off the January 2 strike, they know what they're doing. I believe they act in the defense of what they believe their legitimate interests, and we will respect it. We believe that we are doing the work we must do, which, of course, will be improveable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u114	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto, a member of the Uplegus and the head physician of the Polic Society, had made for the use of a game to ease my extreme poverty." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u115	Thank you, President. Mr Councilman, according to a report by the European ESC, energy poverty kills, kills physically and socially. Energy poverty is not being able to heat up all the hours needed or at the temperature needed to live without getting cold, but it also means not being able to cover basic needs such as food, communications or hygiene. We are not talking, as some might think, only about lack of comfort or lack of comfort, but we are facing a very serious health problem. The number of Basques affected by energy poverty has increased in recent years, obviously as a result of the economic crisis, certain decisions taken by the Spanish Government, certain decisions taken by the Spanish Government, and also, logically, as a result of the social cuts that have occurred. According to various studies, there are approximately ninety thousand Basques who suffer from energy poverty, and the institutions, and the Basque Government in particular, in our view, are not doing everything necessary to put an end to this scourge. Exactly one year ago (and I say exactly one year because it was February 27) an initiative was adopted in this Parliament: this Parliament urged the Government, in the exercise of self-government capacity, to establish the necessary measures to prevent any citizen from being able to cut off light, water or gas if he is in a demonstrable situation of not being able to meet his bills, especially in times of greatest demand. This parliamentary mandate has not been fulfilled. I would like to ask you about the actions that the Basque Government has taken to combat this scourge, and what it intends to do in the future, and I would like to ask you very directly whether the Basque Government, in the face of this scourge, in the face of this very serious problem, is going to stand idly by.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u116	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u117	As we have replied in writing, we are working to identify and determine a more effective mechanism than we have had so far to ensure that the aid under the heading of EUR 200,000, which, as you know, is integrated into the budget, reaches the recipients. The quickest and easiest thing for us would have been to incorporate this heading into social emergency aid, since such aid is also intended to cover basic household maintenance needs, but that was not the will of the proposed amendment group. The objective, which we also share, is to direct this aid to other groups who may be left out of social emergency aid, Mr Maneiro, but who have problems paying their energy bill. It's not as simple as you can think to identify those collectives. It is not so simple to articulate the procedures for providing such aid. That is why I reiterate to you that we are working to provide an answer as well and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u118	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u119	Yes, thank you, counselor. The problem is that this Government says it is working on many issues, but the problems remain unresolved. To this day, has the problem of energy poverty been solved in Euskadi? No, no, What action has the Basque Government taken in recent times to solve this problem? I don't think so. That's the problem. Here's the thing. And, indeed, an item with a somewhat ridiculous amount of EUR 200,000 was agreed; that amount is incorporated into the budgets, and it turns out that the Government is responding to us today that it is working on "defining and determining the most effective mechanism for distributing this item among potential beneficiaries". And this game was approved more than two months ago, and it is not known exactly what it was approved for and what its destination is. They agreed to an amendment without knowing why, and in the meantime there are Basque citizens who are being cold at home. This is the reality! And I certainly hallucinate with the answer that has been given to me. There are citizens who are going cold, who suffer from energy poverty, and yet there is a party there whose fate is being studied today, two months after it was approved. What I ask of you is that we face these injustices. I ask you to put in place a plan to combat energy poverty and, of course, to address all the citizens who suffer from this scourge. And, by the way, that social emergency aid should also be increased, and that this heading should be made available quickly. Let us face, please, counselor, this scourge as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u120	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u121	According to you, Mr. Maneiro. There are citizens who are getting cold. And this February it's been very cold. We have on the table a non-legislative proposal urging us to articulate aid through third sector entities. We got her. It does not seem bad to us, but that requires an answer to some questions that are complicated. Who sets the criteria for setting priorities to care for people, the entity, or the department? It is important, because in general these entities can have different views and be more flexible than the Administration. That's why we'll try to channel it through them. On the other hand, access to such aid requires the exclusion of those who have access to social emergency aid. In order not to be entitled to aid, to the ESAs, some of the circumstances must be given: not to comply with six months of registration, that the unit of living has been constituted less than one year, to be less than eighteen years old, to exceed the limits of income or assets established... And this is when many questions come to us that we are still answering. We know the urgency with which we have to respond, because it will soon be spring. How do we find that they have no right to receive aid? To whom is help directed, to people, or to living units? When they share housing, how do we control the overall economic situation of housing? What do we do with people who are entitled to be tax collectors who have run out of emergency aid because the budget has run out? As you see, if we want the departure to be used rigorously, if it really reaches the intended target and on equal terms, we have to make previous decisions that require your time. And I agree with you, Mr. Maneiro, that we're late, all of us. We make ourselves responsible for the delay, I make myself responsible for the delay. We will do so as soon as we can, as long as we can, and what I do assure you is that in 2016, those people who address this government, taking care of this party that you have also approved, will not be as cold as this year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u122	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that the members of the American parliaments of Laura Garrido Körr of the Basque Groups were made to restore to Eplegus and the head physician of the Society, to the lack of results in the Enplegu and Polylice Department of Society." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of Investigation. Good morning, everyone. Mr Toña, we can say that you have begun to question yourself in your work as an employment and social policy adviser, a debate has been raised about your continuity in office, and, as you know, the option of your dismissal has therefore been raised. But nothing further from the reality, when the lehendakari already in the same week showed him in this very full his support and his support unequivocally, and already, therefore, he had made the decision that you were going to follow as a Counsellor of Employment and Social Policies. But it is clear that the Basque citizens have attended a paripé, a double paripé, because, on the one hand, the decision was already taken, but when the lehendakari had already taken it he is committed to delegating the decision to the Ethics Commission. And I say a double paripé on the one hand for this reason, and on the other, because when the decision is delegated to the Ethics Committee, the committee itself points out that it is not competent to rule on these facts, because it is competent to rule on facts which occurred during the performance of the post, in this case the post of adviser. But, seeing that he is going to remain a counselor, the Employment and Social Policy Advisor, we want to know from the People's Group what criteria will be followed in his department, at the head of the department, of an important department, to correct the lack of results and the inefficient management of his predecessor Mr Aburto. We want to know your true intentions to correct the direction of this department. Euskadi has lower rates of job creation than in other autonomous communities. As we have just heard here, the restructuring of Lanbide is pending; the failure of the social dialogue table, with barely several meetings at the last moment; the deficits in Lanbide are there; the figures of intermediation, clearly improved, far from the expected results, 2%, and, of course, the mismanagement of social benefits. There is an indefatigable need to take effective measures to remedy all these shortcomings, because it is clear that the Abort Counselor undertook a clear flight forward, closing his eyes to the evidence. That is why we ask you what criteria you will follow to reverse and correct the course of your predecessor, Mr Aburto, at the head of the Department of Employment and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u124	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u125	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Garrido, I am not going to enter with your entry on my person and continue as an Employment and Social Policy Advisor, but I do not share that there has been poor management at the head of the department. In a scenario of extreme budgetary difficulty, and with an increasing number of people in difficulty, it has been possible not only to maintain but also to increase spending on social policies; relevant and important agreements have been reached in the development of the Social Services Act; employment plans have been adopted that have helped reverse the process of job destruction in which we found ourselves. My purpose is to continue to focus on this matter: to defend social spending; to seek agreements with political, institutional and social actors to strengthen our social welfare system and commitment to our most unprotected citizens, to whom we owe, particularly the department I lead.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u126	Thank you, chief physician. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u127	Mr Councilman, we, the People's Group, stick to the facts. Of course, it would be regrettable if some would accompany you or be able to accompany you throughout your exercise as a counselor in the performance of your duties. But, look, in a scenario of budgetary crisis, and budgetary adjustments, rather, what a government has to have are clear priorities. And this government, Mr Urkullu's government to which you belong, is not clear what its priorities are. You, Mr Toña, in the exercise of your duties have had a bad start with your first announcements. It has enabled an insufficient amount for social emergency aid, it will eliminate the universal nature of family aid. In the case of conciliation aid, a new scheme is introduced, because the amount allocated will only cover the outstanding amounts of last year, which are ten months. The 10 million that you will enable in the future will not come to cover all the requests that will be made this year. This is something that the People's Party has already predicted. We denounce the lack of will of this Government with the decision to cut the aid for conciliation. They were extendable credits, and you didn't expand them. That is why we have put the solution on the table, which is set as a subjective right, and by adopting this proposal you have the opportunity to rectify that decision. But we regret that the new advisor's first decisions do not correct the course of his predecessor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u128	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u129	I think it is clear, and there is nothing more to do with the budgets, that the allocations for the coverage of GIR, CVP and support for families with children have increased according to demand, because it is a legal imperative, because they are subjective rights. The ESAs have grown every year, despite the difficult budgetary scenario, and so does the conciliation aid, which I am convinced will not have to be suspended this year. And with regard to Lanbide I still remember, when he evidently did not hold this position, the holder of a medium of communication, who soon took over the current team, said: "There are no queues in Lanbide anymore." We'll have done something. Lanbide still doesn't work as we'd like, but it does, Mrs. Garrido. It works. And it works not without difficulty. We are responding to the growing demand for Basque citizenship services, which has increased because of the causes we all know. We answer because their staff, the staff of Lanbide, regardless of their demands, which in any case deserve to be heard, carry out their work with a vocation of service to the citizenry, according to their demands with rigour and with the means available to them, and regardless of which government is the one that runs this department, because Lanbide is at the service of the Basque citizens. My efforts will be to improve that reality of Lanbide, the service it provides to people; to continue to promote political, institutional and social agreements for the improvement of employment and its conditions; to focus on achieving the best possible decent employment (decent employment, Mrs Garrido); to fight for our unemployed young people to access employment, and for precarious jobs to become stable jobs; to care for people in difficulty; and to continue to facilitate access to housing for people who are not able to access decent housing. I understand that you complain that our rates of employment growth are lower than in the State as a whole. I say to him: but it is that we also start from a lower level of unemployment. We started later with the crisis, it affected us later, because our institutional, industrial and economic framework was better prepared.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u130	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interrament, Antonio Damborenea Basterrechea Eugula, member of the Basque Groups, made for Ogas and the Chief of Finnes." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, the other day someone was asking me why he was asking you this question, being that of the Treasury, and I am doing it because it is the money and the one who carries the budgets, and the one who is able to modify the budget items. I will remind you that we three months ago, when the budget was debated, we missed it, and we told it several times (in total, in the partial...), that the budget for this year was increased by more than 400 million euros, of which not one of those euros alone was going, for example, to promote investment and promote employment. Well, today we have data from the closure of 2014, last year, two months ago, that confirm that the Basque economy is developing worse than the Spanish average, and that the economic recovery here in the Basque Country is being slower. I'm going to give you some data, although you don't have to, but good, because, as you usually like this data, and to not bind much and not waste much time, so, if we go to data from the Basque Institute of Statistics, in 2014 Spanish GDP grew 1.4, in the Basque Country 1.1. And this lower growth has obviously resulted in job creation, and while in Spain unemployment has been reduced in 2014 and virtually all autonomous communities have reduced unemployment, we, the Basque Country, are the only community that has increased it in 2014. And I don't care if we use the data from the EPA, which says that it increased by 21,000 people, while in Spain it was down by 200,000, or if we use the data from the public employment services. What the work counselor was telling us now, a moment ago, that there were no longer queues in Lanbide, and then the question one has to ask is if no one believes in Lanbide anymore when it comes to getting a job. Because, of course, it's Lanbide's main function, and obviously, being more and more unemployed, it doesn't seem like it's great news that people aren't even going to queue up Lanbide. But, well, employment services obviously also increase unemployment. In other words, all the figures coincide, and in the Basque Country the unemployment rate has increased in two years from 14.2 to 16.6, while in Spain it fell from 24.2 to 23.7. Man, our data is incorporated into those of Spain. That is to say, Spain could have better data if the Basque Country had worked better, it is obvious. But, well, they're who they are, and the effect is just comparative. As I was saying, three months ago we told him that we were missing those investment measures that would encourage job creation in the Basque Country. Subsequently, in January, the Government of Spain put on the table an instrument, a tool for the autonomous communities and municipalities to refinance their debt and the payment of their interest at zero rate for ten years. The Basque Government said that it was not interested, so we read in the press, because it meant a loss of financial autonomy. I don't know exactly what the loss of financial autonomy is, but I wish some bank would ask me to lose financial autonomy and offer me a ten-year credit to the zero guy. At the moment no one is willing to take away that financial autonomy from me, but I assure the advisor that I am willing to lose it. And here we are talking about that this government, like other autonomous governments, could have disposed of tens of millions of euros that could be devoted, depending on the priorities of the government, for example, to promoting investment. And I say to encourage investment because this government does propose that investment promotion serves to create employment. And I say that it does encourage it and it also demands it from others, and that is why this government has been practically a year and a half or two demanding that the Government of Spain invest in the Basque Country the Y, the Y, the Y... Which you're doing, by the way. But the Basque Government paralyses, for example, the metro lines and the investment in the metro. So it seems to the Basque Government that real investment does encourage employment and creates jobs, pulls businesses and pulls the economy and stops unemployment. Another thing is that that which demands of others does not apply. And I have quoted that formula, which ended in January for those who would like to benefit from it and which this government did not accept, as a way of obtaining more free money in order to promote employment. Well, it wasn't done. And I say that they demand from other things that others already do, and those same measures or doctrines do not apply to the Government itself. Yesterday, there was an event in the Euskalduna in which the Vice-President of the European Commission was presenting Europe's investment plan, of more than EUR 300 billion, in which the lehendakari participated, and the lehendakari was present. And the lehendakari said that it seemed very good to him, and that it was about time that from Europe – with which we all agree – investment was encouraged to achieve job creation. And we have to tell Mr. Lehendakari that we also like him very well, but let's see when they point to the car, shall we? When this government intends to aim for that car. That is, when, what you say to others that it suits you and that you have to do, it applies at some point. And then, when yesterday Mr Lehendakari said that it would be good for us all to row together for employment, so what we have to tell him is that he takes a row and starts hitting on others, because maybe we stop going to the queue of the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain, maybe we start creating jobs faster, maybe we start getting out of the crisis. Because I want to remind you that three years ago, what was raised was that we had to have the conditions to get out the first of the crisis, and now I am beginning to hear this government, and not just from the mouth of the previous advisor who has paraded in this rostrum, which is that our economy..., we entered later into the crisis and left later. Perhaps we entered the crisis later because some measures were taken in 2009 that were then stopped, and this government has not recovered them either! And since you haven't recovered them, we're still as we are, towing. As Spain grows, we are growing, like all Spaniards; now, of course, in places where the other administrations collaborate more or cooperate more, because it seems that they are doing something better, at least in what is supposed to worry us all. Because yesterday also appeared, to see, priorities of those we were there and of the citizens, unemployment. It was the first priority in this Autonomous Community. Well, counselor, our inquiry was to see if you were going to follow as well, as up until now, looking, and demanding others to do what you do not do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u132	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. To answer, Mr. Gatzgagary has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Damborena. Look, I have to correct you. We're an autonomous community with the smallest rate of unemployment in a hundred economics. If you see the evolution of our economy in the past year, our raw internal product in the year, the end of the year, it's up %1,2%. The structure and mould of our economical fabric is different. Eleven would like to have a hundred of these economics to express the certainty and stability of our economic growth! It's the weight of our industry in the raw internal act. By the weight of industry, we see the nature of employment. This nature of the operation is different from that of the tourist or temporary antiquity. I mean, in this country, as far as we get out of the line of this important crisis of importance, this shows that economic evolution has been consolidated in the last centuries. Look, in the last year, at the measurement of the year, in the first three months, jobs were dissolved, 0.5%. The second time we were equal. And in the second six months, we've had an increase in the first three months, 0.5%. And in the last three months, 1%. And besides, how did we end the year? We said in our predictions: "We're not creating jobs in the year," we found out yesterday, and the little job has been created a little bit, %3%. But, as the work is measured in economic matters, Mr. Damborena, because employment contains a number of symptoms of every month (Human Security, the general census of unemployment, state or profession). It's as simple as it's measured. How? During the whole act and one year at the average. As it is measured in economics. And I'm not going to take another indicator on the spot, but seriously. That's the way it is in economic matters, in the economics in Europe, where we have the data. We didn't think so, but our economy is getting better. The services have been uploaded. 5%. Industries have gone up 1. The downfall of the building has been deactivated, but it's still down, it's reduced to the descent of the fall, but it's downhill. The first sector has improved, too. And you've got that influence on yesterday's data. Our commercial flock (reports and imports): We have a positive 5,000 million in our yearly accounts. See what evolution we've had for three months a year. I mean, our economy has competitiveness. And what's in the heart of competitiveness? It's fertility. And what's in the heart of fertility? The nature of our financial fabric. And what is the nature of our economic tissue? To have people prepared (a system of education, a profession), to make active policies, to force innovations. This is, our government, as it were, has two important goals in the budgets and its political strategy. In this plan of strengthening economy, and producing employment, we have, on the one hand, placed several instruments for economy assistance and protection: Internationalization, industrialization, innovation, technology and research plan, even the 2013-2016 plan for competition and fertility of enterprises, combined with three kinds of forgeries. A number of financial tools, which we have already established, and which are now producing influence in our financial fabric. And that shows one thing that you have forgotten in your speech: the smallest rate of unemployment is here. And to understand how we're going to place it, we have to have our economic models in our economics and that's what we're doing. If you see the budget often in the last five months we've talked about this technology, when the budgets have come to the Chamber, we've got it for the 323 million assets, 112 for preparation, and 213 to promote jobs, to make investments in the bases of 640 million, port nets, water supplys, and underlying water tables, 110 million for our first sector, 206 million research, new research, and technology, to help over our New Business and New Businessers. That's what we've got as the first challenge. Two. To guarantee our Basque standard of well-being, and, like the axis, the main Basque company, the Hosacian company. He's the only one with 32 billion employees and he's taking a third of the budget, $3,400 million. You never speak of the importance of membership, I never heard of it; I always hear other things. But the budget's a third part of the budget, and the increase he's bringing in, the OD, in over 40 million investments, in that second column of the budget. And in education, 2.489 million budgets. 89% of all department, starting from 0-3 to high school. That's when you're making the most fun of it: and, on the other hand, to strengthen the form of well-being, and to strengthen the economy by popular politics. And to refresh the economy, the program I've been talking about, with the amount in the budget. That's what we're doing. And then you know what happens in our public economy? Something that doesn't happen in real economy. The real economy, Monsieur Damborena, has happened to make adaptations between the offer and the request, but what has happened in public economy has less to answer more requests than to answer more needs. That's what we've been through for three years, and we've been so responsible for it. And it has to be adjusted, too, into a sphere, and the budget, finance, and popular economy, is full of rules, because the scope leads to strict regulating of economic management in the direction of the financial industry. That's all we have to do. You put two big challenges and two big columns, you answer more resources, satisfy more needs, and you have to fill out the strict economic rules. And it's not a small job, it's very difficult, and that's what we're doing, honestly. And you know that well, the budget's published. We've been playing with these two challenges, and we're playing for our financial fabric, with the many and many policies I've mentioned. And there's something else I have to say. The investment increases in budget. Twenty-two million, measuring the budget for 2014. Twenty-two million more. And we must also satisfy our needs in the policy of society. To satisfy the basic income, we've planned 76 million more in the budgets of 2015, and he's had some protection in this Chamber. Therefore our economist policies combine both things; To strengthen the guarantee of the well-being model of euphora, and, on the other hand, the demand of our financial fabric by sector, and competition based on fertility, to create employment for recovery. With these two challenges we use tools, respecting economic and financial regulations. It's not easy work, but that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u134	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u135	I think we're going to stay the same as we have so far. I mean, going to trailer and telling us the Basque Government that we have the lowest unemployment rate in Spain, which is not so, but, well, but it is one of the lowest, which is also not the merit of this... I could also have told myself that we have the highest per capita income, but, of course, since a hundred years ago! In the Basque Country, for a hundred years, the highest per capita income has been earned by the three Basque provinces, i.e. it does not give me data that are obvious, obvious and known, and that do not clearly respond to the actions of any government, and less to one that takes two years, or three years, or four years. And don't tell me about quarterly data and stuff. I've seen the note you guys took the other day comparing the first quarter with the third, the second with the fourth, the other with the...! I told you, listen, from year to year the unemployment in the Basque Country in 2014 has risen. He's up. Measured in EPA terms, measured in terms of employment services, I have given you the data, the unemployment rate. He's come up, we're the only community he's come up into. That's what I told you from the beginning! I'm not telling him we're the least unemployed he's got or... I told him we're not as good as the others. That we're not as good as the others. You tell me that, of course, we have an economy that is more industrial... which is neither any merit of this government nor of the previous governments of these, is it? In other words, the Basque Country has been a very industrial region in Spain for many years too. Now, if you want to talk about that, because, of course, in last year's job loss, basically industrial employment has been lost. 1.8% of industrial employment is what we have lost. I mean, when we're talking... That is the one that gives value, because I suppose we will all agree here, in this House, that it is worth much more an industrial position than one in the services sector, for all that it brings. Well, we're losing those jobs in that sector, in the industrial sector. And I'm not going to compare it to how much was, ten years ago, the percentage in the Basque economy of the industrial sector and how much it is now, and how we've been going down, because it's 10 points, one per year. Jo, you tell me I'm not talking about Osakidetza or Education! No, I've come to talk about employment. I've come to talk about employment. And don't tell me what it is that with less resources you have to pay more expenses. Hey, like all administrations! Let's see if the Basque Government is the only one to whom in this time of crisis income has been reduced and has more expenditure! The Government of Spain, obviously, more unemployed, more interests... Of course, like all governments! And the European Union is the same, because it depends on state funding and none has been boycotting, except for Germany one year. Like everybody else! Now, the others have been busy doing some homework and freeing up funds for the investment to continue. Not as before, of course, but by further encouraging job creation, which we have been putting in front of this government for over a year. You said to me, "No, this year the investment is increasing by 22 million!". And I told you that wasn't true in the budget debate, because you were setting me up in solitary. You were comparing the 2014 budget, the one you presented at the end of 2013, with the real one in September 2014, and the one you presented to us for this year was less than 20 million in that investment. Yes, yes, yes! Changes to your own budget and your own department. The 400 million more euros for this year, as you yourself recognized, were basically going to pay off the debt (the principal and the interest), plus the increase in the GIR. And from there you can tell me about all the plans and programmes and all the things that this government raised a year ago, but it is clear that not one more euro went to either of them, not one, because this account is very easy. If we have an additional EUR 400 million, what have we spent it on? In the payment of the debt and in the RGI. Have we obtained resources to encourage investment? No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u136	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Your time is up. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Damborenea, I show you the page in the budgets, and you compare it. Here it is, investment growth. Therefore, I take for granted reproduced the arguments, and the inconsistency of their argumental thread falls by its own weight. Two. Make the bill right, because you've done it wrong. Contributions of $450 million do not refer to financial operations; they are spent on non-financial operations. Understand it. The financing of financial operations comes through other operations. I'm telling you because, if not, you don't know exactly, and you would have an inconsistency in your argument. The financial transactions of previous years' indebtedness are not linked to the contributions, and you should know it, and if you don't know it I will explain it to you now. They are linked to financial operations that go in this year's budget. Three. This year's operating expenditure is reduced, but for something you need to know, of course, because it is public knowledge: it is that there is a smaller deficit target, which assumes that we have about 200 million less financial income for non-financial operating expenditure, and that it is mitigated in part by an increase in contributions. And you have a very important increase of 76 million dedicated to income guarantee income, and you have 32 million more for the Department of Education spending, and you have 48 million more for health spending, and you have 50 million more because you have to pay a quarter of an extra pay of the year 2012 that is pending and that will be paid progressively, in application of the basic legislation of the State. These are the rules for the operation of expenditure in public administrations. I say this to you, and therefore, as I refer to the pages of the budgets, I take it that the arguments of my first presentation have been reproduced. Look, I've told you about it and I'll tell you again about what we're doing in the budget with both targets. to guarantee euscal's pattern of society... And where our hue is going. If you've got more supplies, but you've got less than 200 million in debt. We have to balance that. And then, if it's a smaller scale of debts... You forgot to think about that. Take 40 million off the account I told you about, and yet we invest 22 million dollars in budgets by measuring it with last year. We improve on a difficult economic stage, all politics. That's why we got the budget's approval, with a lot of difficulty, with the help of the Social Party. If there hadn't been any improvement, it would have been harder to accept the budgets in the Chamber. We play with these two goals, and the government has placed its differences in order to promote our financial fabric. And when you say, "That's a strange thing to me," a public ruler showing this pessimism of the Basque Country, a lack of attachment to his country, I don't see it convenient for you. The strength of our material tissue is there, and you must see the last accounts. In 2013, ladies and gentlemen, our economy grew 1,7 in the negative, 1,7 down. This year we've finished a little better than we thought, it's up 1.2. There's almost three points between us in a year. And, please, when you've played with seriousness and intellectually strong, you've got to measure the outcome of the job. Very modest, but there's an evolution in our hundred economics about what's happened for years. We lost for the first six months. But well measured employment, eh? If we use punctual signs in the course of December, because the year's campaign is over, Christmas campaign is over... We know that's the case. At the age of a year, with a great moderation and moderation, it has been created. Tendentity is the important thing in the economy, which shows where we're going: an increase in all departments, mostly in industry, services, and first sector. And we wait to see improvements in construction too. Although in the negative, the deceleration of the negative has occurred. That's right. And the government will play on that economic frame.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u138	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "The question is, that Gorka Maneiro Labay's Mistto, a member of the U.UPyD team, made of education, politics, and the chief department of the Cultural Council, about certain measures to promote to the rest of the rest." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u139	Thank you very much. It's hard to believe, but a campaign called "Eta txipa aldatuko bagenu?", with which the Basque Government intends to encourage the Basques to continue to speak in Basque even though in the group in which one is one there are people who do not understand Basque. I mean, just what they had taught us to, out of education, not to do. In the presentation of the campaign, the Vice-Teacher of Linguistic Policy considered, however, that it is not disrespectful to keep talking in Basque when in the group of people in which you are there there are people who do not understand it. The vice-counsel gave two examples to justify the unjustifiable. He said: "Do we tell him not to come to the one who does not know how to cook, or do we teach him how to do it? For not knowing how to play football, do we corner someone, or invite him to play with us?". In our opinion, comparing the attitude towards hobbies with what human communication is, which is essentially done orally and for which languages exist, is absurd and inappropriate. Mr.Bastarrika pointed out that the purpose of the campaign is not to speak in Basque to a person who doesn't understand anything (it was just missing, wasn't it?), but to sustain our language and show people that little by little they can understand it, to hold hands with respect. Finally, if this campaign were successful and carried out, many gangs of friends, co-workers or families would break up, stop communicating, because, why do we want to be with people we don't want to communicate with? Anyway, counselor, do you think this campaign is reasonable, or rather, like us, does it sound like a real nonsense to you? Tell me you're not, tell me this is a joke, tell me you haven't registered Mr. Isasi as a language policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u140	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u141	The head of the table, the chief physician, the congressman, good day. Mr Maneiro, I will answer your question directly, because if you stopped me from appreciating the various disqualifications that you have poured into your question I would exhaust all my time. You ask if the campaign seems reasonable. Yes, we think it's reasonable and necessary. We think it is necessary that we should take the conduct and attitude of our talking Basques in the presence of the eleven situations which we live every day. It happens more to a talking Basque than to a talker, in the everyday, with other talking euscals, to correct the stranger whom we meet in the street; or to ask the child to speak of the eucalypticism, but to do it with his partner; or to encourage those who are learning of it, but not to have the patience to have a conversation with them in that language. That's what happens to us. Well, we think that in such situations we see ourselves reflected, and in this situation we want to promote a change of attitude, a change of effect. This is our purpose: to excite reflection, to excite the attitude of the Basque, to push the change; to encourage the positive and active attitude, and to demand, independently of the prejudices, to persist in everything we please, in any circumstances.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u143	Yes, Commissioner, disqualifications I do not recall having used in this case, in this particular question. I believe that the euskera's impulse and its use – how to explain it – cannot become a kind of holy war, a kind of social war, a confrontation between families, gangs, friends or fellow citizens. That can't be, it can't be based on that. Let's see, one thing is to encourage people to practice euskera, to use it whenever they want, to encourage a positive and active attitude. One thing is that, and that's fine. But another thing is to propose that Basque be spoken even when there are people in the group who don't know him. And in particular I am referring to this concrete proposal which is within that programme (to this concrete proposal, not to others, to this particular proposal), which encourages people to continue to speak Basque when they are in a group where there are people who do not understand it. This is, in short, how to define it... Is that what you're talking about? Absurd. They rule us aliens or antisocial beings, they rule us aliens! I believe that the Department of Linguistic Policy is not that it has registered Mr Isasi, but that it has directly incorporated into its section antisocial, alien or extraterrestrial people, who make these kinds of arguments, these kinds of proposals to society as a whole. But, counselor, do you know what's going on? That the euskaldunes are much more reasonable than those who govern us from that department, and the euskaldunes are not going to do such a thing. This is not going to be done, it is not going to be done. It's absurd. Because the important thing is communication, the important thing is to communicate with people, and because languages are to communicate, not to raise barriers between fellow citizens. Withdraw, therefore, this concrete proposal, Madam Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u144	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u145	Don't worry, Mr. Maniro, we don't need Mr. Isas. People who don't talk Basques have a hard time finding out how hard it is for us to use eupscals, and that's because we're eloquent and we don't have it on this field. They find it hard to understand how easily we play Spanish in the face of a doubtful situation, to appeal like machines to young defecto, and it may happen that we know what we have before us. He's a Minorized Basque, and we talk Basques are ours. That happens in every Minerized process. To speak Basque, of course, is not to have any respect, just as it is not to speak Spanish. We don't tell anyone what to do. We, with this campaign, have tried to identify some of the situation, and we have tried to reflect on the common and well-developed attitudes and prejudices of the speaker Basques. Among us there are more and more people, fortunately, who understand the cradle, but who have difficulty in speaking of it, which is called passive or passive eucalyptus. And if there be those who understand it in such a context, who, if they are in the difficulty of speaking, will speak of it, but others may resist it, for by this means they understand what they have before them. And their communication will take place in a pleasant atmosphere of naturalness and solidarity. That doesn't hurt, it's all to win. We don't think so, at least, that the situations which appear at the stage of dinner are likely to make anyone feel bad, and we don't think they're offensive to anyone, because their humour is in the most intimate respect. You may like them or like them, but they're not offensive, not improper. And I'm about to finish. It's based on self-defense and mutual respect. We aim to satisfy the talking Basques: without forcing anyone and respecting peers, to relieve the self-loading of the talking eupskaskas. We haven't invented this concept, it's very wide in psycholinguistics, sociolinguistics and communications. And we speak from psycholinguistics and not ideology.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The twentieth point on the subject's list was the question "about a campaign on the use of the eucalyptus." Mr. Reyes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u147	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Counselor, I'm going to refer to the same thing, but he's not responding. The campaign, the campaign says exactly... the hanging videos say exactly that the Basques don't speak Spanish when they're with someone who doesn't know Basque. That is the core of the question; the rest are ornaments to drain the lump. That's what the video clearly says, that citizens see it, in that campaign "Eta txipa aldatuko bagenu?". What do you mean when you ask us to change the chip, to have the Basque speakers resort to exclusive practices in relation to the rest of the population? Herritarrak bi hizkuntza-komunitatetan zatitu nahi dituzu? Do you want to divide this society into two linguistic communities? With this campaign, the Government is allowing itself to interfere in the lives of citizens, trying to condition their behaviour in family relations and among friends, and giving exclusive advice that represents a cut in personal relations and induces social division, and with certainty that many people move away from the Basque country. It is not sociolinguistic; it is that they are telling citizens that when a Basqueldun finds himself in a group with another who does not know Basque do not talk to him. That says the video, and you're getting used to denying evidence lately. The video is posted on the Government website in Irekia. That is why what I intend to do today is to defend the linguistic freedom of each person, and to reject the social segregation that this linguistic exclusion would bring. But also try to avoid the damage to the Basque, the rejection that will produce the linguistic division that promotes this campaign. You are responsible for acting against the consensus that has driven linguistic progress and coexistence in this society since 82. That's what they're doing. I therefore have to ask you what purpose the Basque Government intends to achieve with this campaign.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u148	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u149	The lady's head. Mr. Reyess, though the duration of the support may be considered assured by the labor of euscal society for several generations, yet we have the vital strength of resistance to overcome. And, as we all know, the most important way of ascertaining the force of life is the use. We must use it, we must influence it in use, push it to use, invite it to use it, and convince it to use it. We know that this is the way, but it often happens that we generally choose our first word of euscal in what language we have not noticed; we make this choice by intuition, in order to discover whether the speaker before us knows how to make a stand, and if there be any doubt, we often appeal to youth. This being so, we think it necessary to make it known in several ways among the speakers of Esscal, and there is the cause of the campaign. We think that in such situations we need a change of attitude, a change of chip. At the time of Euskara, when choosing the language, to be conscious and to have an active attitude. To leave the prejudice aside, and, whenever we can and will, to keep it with all our power: the change of the cymbal, as the motto of the campaign says. So, "What if we change the chip? In our daily life, the eucalyptic campaign is to take a positive and active attitude towards the eucalyptus, without judging beforehand the language and knowledge of the other people, to resist whenever it pleases. It's a moody invitation for a change of attitude.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u151	Counselor, one of the videos shows a ball game, and what is said is that if someone doesn't know you have to teach him. Then a conversation of friends talking about the children... How are you going to do the conversation if you're taught Basque? That is, the issue is not communication between people, strengthening ties, living normally. It is, to him who does not know, not to communicate with him, and the solution that says the video, to teach Basque. It's wonderful. Social relations will be established because the Basques, with the one who does not know Basque, will not talk to him about everyday affairs, even if they are friends or family, but what they will do is teach Basque. And the other one's gonna stay there waiting to learn, of course. You're segregating. That's what the video says! Haven't you seen him? That's what you see in the video! There are enough walls in this society for you to raise one more, the linguistic wall. Socialists are not about that. We argue that no one should be made to feel excluded from this society because their language is one or the other; that everyone's linguistic choice, whatever it is, must be respected, and that no one should be given reason to be fed up with his country, and less should the Government do that. So do the citizens, the Basque and the Government a favor and withdraw that campaign, please. Even from the point of view of utility, spend money on promoting the use of reasonable and inclusive euskera, and don't throw the money into these things that only serve, as I say, to divide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u152	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u153	As I have already observed in my first turn, the object of the campaign is to encourage the consideration of the speaker eupscals, to change our cup of eucalyptus, to promote a positive and active attitude. What we really believe, and what we seek with the campaign, is to encourage them to make use of as much as possible, and to avoid the prejudices we have of the Basques. The talking Basque, whenever he likes, will make the first word snap. It is therefore a question of the Basque speaker opting, when he so wishes, for the first word to be in Basque. Understand it. It is not, much less, a matter of leaving no one behind. It is not a question of excluding or disturbing anyone. It is about showing Basque speakers, through simple sketches and humor, situations in which we meet daily, and inviting them to reflect and change their chips. You haven't lived it either, but many Basque speakers have lived it. Speaking in Basque is not disrespectful, as it is not speaking in Spanish. We do not tell anyone what to do, but we identify a situation in which it is very common, very common, that if there is someone in the group who does not know Basque automatically, systematically, everyone speaks Spanish. We wonder why it is. There are many people and there are more and more situations where that is managed differently. We see that in these situations between zero and one hundred it is perfectly possible to find also percentages different from zero, and not that automatically, if a person has difficulty speaking in Basque, then it is immediately passed to the Castilian. If in one context there are people who understand Basque, if they have difficulty speaking in Basque, he will speak in Spanish, but the others can speak in Basque, because the people who are ahead understand Basque, and there will be situations in which these asymmetrical conversations will take place: one of the interlocutors speaks in Basque but another does not speak, the other understands and also speaks it..., and communication between the interlocutors will take place naturally and in an atmosphere of solidarity, and pleasant and natural. I'm sorry, we don't share your idea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez Eusila Group Member of the Security Department, the terrorism jihadist." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Jihadist terrorism, which, like all terrorism, attempts to impose its totalitarian project, has become a serious threat to all Western societies. The attacks in Paris, the beheadings or individual and collective burns of people, show the cruelest aspect of this terrorist phenomenon. We are faced with a different, specific terrorist phenomenon, with a different modus operandi, and therefore the way to deal with it, prevent it and combat it must also be. We face a different organization, formed by cells with few members and even lone wolves. Euskadi is no stranger to this threat. In August Europol already warned the Ertzaintza of possible attacks, and asked its operational bases to extreme security. Also on that date, a young man of Arab origin was identified with photographs of ertzainas and local police officers he was following. It is clear, therefore, that we are facing a real threat, and therefore we cannot look elsewhere, because Euskadi is not alien to that threat. It is not a matter of generating alarmism, but of being aware of the dangers it embodies in order to try to prevent them, with the aim of ensuring public safety. I therefore ask you: what measures do you intend to take to ensure that Ertzaintza can effectively guarantee public security in the face of the jihadist threat?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u156	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u157	Mrs Llanos, you said it, Euskadi is no stranger to this real threat. Like the French police, the mossos or the national police, or any other police, Ertzaintza is also engaged in the monitoring and analysis of jihadist terrorism. There's no police or intelligence today that isn't. It is one of the top security concerns, one of the most widespread, most shared and most worked concerns.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u158	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u159	Thank you, Madam President. The Ertzaintza is also in it, and with special dedication the Central Bureau of Intelligence. In recent years, an important regulatory framework has been developed at European level, and also at national level, based on four pillars: the pillar of prevention, protection, and the pillars of prosecution and response to criminal acts. Within this strategy, in relation to the threat of jihadist terrorism, Ertzaintza constantly shares information with the rest of the police in its surroundings, attends the working tables to which it is convened by the Ministry of Interior, and we have also intensified the flow of information in collaboration with the police coordination centre in Hendaya. This is what we have to do now. It is the only way to achieve real effectiveness in the face of such globalized terrorist threats. Although you also know, Mrs Llanos, that it is not always possible to prevent terrorist groups from sowing pain and fear in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u160	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u161	Thank you again, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, as you have said and as I have said, Euskadi is indeed no stranger to this reality. And I do not doubt that it has been working for a long time, but after the attacks in Paris the Ministry of the Interior decreed for all of Spain level 3. That is why Ertzaintza has been forced to control critical infrastructures that may be the subject of terrorist attacks. However, the way in which such protection is done has been questioned by the agents themselves and by the trade union centres themselves, including their own preparation, training and information to deal with such attacks. It has been questioned, first of all, that instruction 53, which contains the catalogue of self-protection measures against terrorist attacks, is not strictly applied. And also the agents themselves complain that, despite the fact that, as I say, after the Paris attacks, the level 3 threat has been declared by the Department of Security, no appropriate measures have been taken at this level of threat, a level that requires protection to be done through the mobilization of special intervention units and specialized groups of police forces, which are the ones that should be dedicated to protecting the points that I have mentioned to you. And in the case of the Ertzaintza, it was the members of the citizens' security that were responsible for protecting these enclaves, without receiving sufficient training, in their opinion, putting at risk the very safety of the agents and of the citizens as a whole. Because, as I say, they call for the strict application of instruction 53, which protects agents, such as the one who died when he was controlling traffic in Paris. And yet here the strict application of that instruction is not allowed. They point out that surveillance has been ineffective and that the material used has been insufficient to protect us from a threat of this nature. The necessary measures have therefore not been taken, and it is therefore necessary that they be taken seriously, an issue which I believe they have not yet done. Or, counselor, is it going to happen here as in Toulouse, where, if I attended to what the agents said, he did not give them the slightest support and attributed the serious attacks they suffered to a fight between ertzainas and other people? Are you going, Madam Counsellor, to consider that the presence of specialized agents, of special groups, generates tension, and that, therefore, it is better that they are, but without it being seen that they are? Or once again, Counsellor, is the image going to prevail over the security of citizens in general and of agents in particular?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u162	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u163	Mrs Llanos, I repeat: jihadist terrorism is today one of the most widespread, shared and worked security concerns in the world, also in the Basque Country. Mixing the risks of the jihadist threat with trade union demands, however legitimate they may be, is certainly not their own political responsibility. As I have already indicated, Ertzaintza is working in line with the European regulatory framework. Within the framework of the objectives set by the European Union, the Department of Safety and Security has implemented a number of protocols and instructions. We have adopted the graduation of risk levels with criteria comparable and comparable to those indicated by the European Union and also by the State. A permanent analysis of specific risks is being carried out by the Central Intelligence Office in Euskadi, and from this same office, the Central Intelligence Office, training courses are being developed for all Ertzaintza commanders and also for local police officers, as a channel of transmission to all our police officers. Permanent (I insist, permanent) analyses are carried out in relation to critical infrastructure, and not just critical infrastructure. In addition, with other places that either by their symbolism, or because they are places that are of some importance, or places where the attendance of people is numerous, it is estimated that they could be targeted by terrorists. And of course specific measures, specific operational tactics, adapted to each of these cases, have already been put in place, both for the protection of infrastructure and for the protection of people. And also, of course, for the protection of those and the ertzainas who have to carry out these preventive and protective tactics, like the rest of the police. We will always try, as I have said before, to anticipate any attempt to create terrorist cells in Euskadi, and, of course, the intention they may have to provoke or commit some kind of attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u164	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, EH Collector of the Union, concerning the second nurse known to the permanent attention of Durangum." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u165	Thank you, Chief. Good noon, everyone. Mr. Chief, we're not here to find the guilty. Our object is not to give some or others reason. This is not a question of guilt or of reason. Our end and only what we seek is the solution, only the solution of a problem. And I want to think that's the end of it, too, to search for solutions and to normalize the state of work in Durango's non-stop attention, and get its quality back, unfortunately, many years later. And to look for solutions, there's only one chance at this moment: to place two real nurses on each job-that is to say, in December 2014, to fulfill what was approved of in this Parliament. What was admitted was: "The American law calls for fun, so that he can repair the constant conflict in Durangu's attention, increase his nurse's personal personality, so he can have two nurses working on every job." So today's direct question is, Mr. Darpón: When will the medical Department begin to obey the order given by this lawyer? When?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. Mrs. Ubera, since the beginning of the law, this subject has been treated several times in this Chamber. Questions, information requests, verbal questions or interpellations, we've always said the same thing: Durango's constant attention is not the activity that has been raised, and the resources are like other centres. I came here to say the same thing again today. Public management, also that of the Basque public health system, must be governed by quality and efficiency criteria. It is essential to ration the use of available resources, and it is also a requirement of citizens. Resources aren't free. We manage the tax money. It is the Government that manages the health system, and it is the people who have entrusted it to them. With the data that we have provided since the start of the legislature until now in response to multiple questions, requests for information and even a visit from the Health Committee to the CAP in Durango, I think you know that the current staffing system guarantees quality health care, similar to that of any other CAP in Osakidetza. However, and given the situation of discontent, not all of them, but of some CAP workers, which, as you know, already existed when we arrived at the government in December 2012, numerous actions have been launched since Osakidetza. The immediate officials have been changed, passing this centre to be in charge of the head of the Durango Primary Care Unit. The centre has been partially remodeled, giving it more space. Its furniture and technological endowment have been renewed. Their emergency care processes have been improved in conjunction with the support of the hospital emergency at Galdakao-Usansolo Hospital. A psychosocial risk assessment has been conducted by the Osakidetza Occupational Safety and Prevention Service, pending submission to the Health Commission. And the CAP has been given the possibility to activate and dispose of a second nurse, a reinforcement nurse, when necessary. And believe me, none of the CAPs are on shift. They work for days. These are the improvements of Mrs. Ubera, Osapartes, and the Department of Health, which we found so confused to improve the climate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u168	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u169	It's short of lessons. It seems to me that we who are here know how to work at every center. You didn't answer my question. The question is when you will obey the legislature order, for here are some majority, and I thought that the legislature is for something: Follow the government. To promote his action, and, on the other hand, to control it. But this government seems to be very little interested in what it is said of the legislature. And today is the day that in the constant attention of Durang, quality is not guaranteed. It is true, and I will not deny that some measures have been taken, but they have not been long enough. And the psychosociation of psychosocial dangers has not been made and there has been no agreement in this process. And I know this is a matter of many years and it's not your responsibility and that this government doesn't belong to you. But now it's your responsibility and you're responsible. And of course the means must be optimized and used efficiently, but in advance the person is the end, right? That's what I thought, and I was offering you a decent service. And this requires the use of the means with optimism and efficiency, which demands that the means should be guided by the means which is necessary for members of the community. And at this moment we must secure them in due course for the constant attention of Durangus, because it is not guaranteed by the means which they are in. And you often concentrate on quantum data, but it's not enough, it's not enough. Let's go and check out the properties, too. Maybe you'll have to spend a month on it to see what's going on. Go, spend a month, and then you'll come and tell us. Just keep it up, keep it up. I don't know what you need to convince yourself about the situation for the non-stop attention in Durango. And it's not all numbers. There are people here before the numbers, there are workers. And it's your responsibility and responsibility, because now you're in the government, to lead the best means possible. So when? Give him a date to obey the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u171	Ubera andrea, the responsibility, you have no doubt, it's mine. At no time do I hide it! In the CAP in Durango, as you know, many measures have been taken, as you have acknowledged. The Durango CAP has the same budget, comparable for its activity, as the rest of the CAP. Because there's one or two people who need more... By that criterion, then, we would have what everyone needed. Look, the people who have been entrusted with the management of the health system are our group, and that's what you've come to the government to do. I repeat: the activity of the CAP in Durango has not increased. Its resources are proportional to other Osakidetza CAPs, and are tailored to the needs of its demand. You have taken Durango's CAP as your flag, but you could have taken the Sukarrieta dispensary. But really, let's put what we put on, the discontent is another. They have a second backup nurse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u172	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. A third point in the subject list: "Interregation, made by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez, the members of the Basque Groups of the Worlds, to the Chief of the Environmental and Regional Polagulative Policians, to usurp the rules of the Institutions (LAG) and municipal functions of the townships. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u173	Thank you, Madam President, Madam Counsellor, Mr Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Councilwoman, I am asking you on behalf of the People's Group about the non-substantial amendment of the Territorial Planning Guidelines. This House on 7 February 2013 approved an amendment between the Basque Nationalist group and EH Bildu stating, first, "to suspend the non-substantial modification procedure in the Territorial Planning Guidelines initiated in 2010"; second, "to revise the Territorial Planning Guidelines taking into account a number of social, economic, environmental challenges, through a broad process of citizen participation". Mr. Aldaiturriaga in committee also reminded us that the Basque Nationalist group carried in its government program the revision of the Territorial Planning Guidelines. Well, Mrs. Counsellor, you do not serve the mandate of this House, nor the program of the party that takes you to the council. The opposite is true: it corneres the revision of the Territorial Planning Guidelines sine die (it is not going to do so, it is not interested in it), and resumes the non-substantial change initiated by the previous Government to reduce residential quantification. And also urgently. An unwarranted amendment urgency, there is no demand. Madam Counsellor, I think we should work on the revision of the management guidelines; that we incorporate this work that you have been initiated; that a review document be made, and that we do an orderly procedure, as established by law. Can you argue with us this urgency, Counselor? It would be interesting if he could make sound arguments. I would like to remind you, Madam Counsellor, that this residential quantification is binding. Of the few binding things that the guidelines have, residential quantification is one of them. And, Counsellor, the luxury of calling it a non-substantial change is allowed. In addition, Madam Counsellor, to amend it outside the procedures laid down in the Territorial Planning Act. That's what he reported in committee. The rest will follow the procedures of the law; this is not. In addition, without the corresponding strategic environmental procedure. The councilwoman has given a good piece of paper that passes her from Environment, where they say everything is perfect. It couldn't be otherwise, we didn't expect anything else. It would be great, Madam Counsellor, to pass this model sheet on to so many individuals, companies or administrations that day by day have to process files in the environment, in the environmental authority, and that of course have real adventures in order to get a report in a reasonable time. Environmental authority to which this small process that you are performing passes unnoticed. Madam Counsellor, in addition to making a non-revisional amendment, a non-substantial amendment, when it is binding, with urgency, without justification, without the corresponding strategic environmental procedure, outside the procedures established by the Land Management Act, without a broad process of citizen participation, as was requested in this House by the non-law proposal, which is the legal procedure, you do without consensus of the Land Management Commission of the Basque Country, where all the competent administrations are represented. The Government made an initial proposal in June 2014 that only the number of housing units in the municipalities should be reduced. This is how it communicates it to the parliaments and to some municipalities. However, the report to the COPU, which was voted on on 18 February, had nothing to do with the initial report, a second report which did not give rise to amendments. The amendments that were tabled to the first report you submitted were answered on 18 February, the same day as the vote on the second report. Frankly, the procedure is sui generis, very sui generis. This document they present, presents so many differences on the previous one that should have been initially approved, be exposed to the public, that they could have made allegations... But no, everything is very urgent, the counselor is in a hurry. Why is the councilwoman in a hurry? The votes on this document were: the Gipuzkoa Foral Chamber, against: the Álava Foral Chamber, against; the Bizkaia Foral Chamber, abstention (an abstention of the PNV, counselor, is a no as a house); the vote of Eudel, abstention (the vote of Eudel, abstention is a non-triplicate). Therefore, Madam Counsellor, you approved this only with the votes of the Government. Only with the votes of the government. She endorsed a document that was completely removed from the consensus, a fact that is almost unusual in the body that generally takes the agreements by consensus. This document presents serious competition irregularities, establishes new rules regarding soil classification, modification of planning... It's not just about residential quantification. Because, counselor, what did you say in September in this House? I'm in the competition. Obviously, the Territorial Planning Guidelines, in particular on the issue of residential quantification, maximum marks, only maximums. And those maxims are then left in the hands of the municipalities, which they can put... below that maxim, they can put whatever they want. Whatever you want. Local governments are older administrations, to which we deeply respect. Their ability to maneuver is wide, they can do whatever they want. You respect them very much, but then you steal their wallet, counselor. Because Article 8.2 says: "It can be respected on urbanizable soil in the current planning already approved". "Can be", indeterminate legal concept. What can be done? Depending on the councilman, depending on the owner, depending on the mayor? Depending on what? This implies that the government can change what is already in place in planning, as well as usurp this competition to the municipalities. What happens to the responsibility, if you qualify an urbanizable soil as rustic? That the owner is going to claim. Who's gonna answer that? You, the city council, the parliament...? Who's answering? We don't have an answer. We don't know. Article 8.2 states: "No new reclassifications of non-urban land to urban land shall be allowed". This constitutes an express ban on municipalities to make the territorial model of their municipality. And it also contradicts the Soil Law, articles 103 and 105, which responds and says that the municipalities are competent to do this. Article 8.3, Counsellor, generally prohibits planning changes that represent an increase in residential capacity, if not renewal or redemption. This prohibition is not understood, Counselor, because it leaves with its hands tied and without the competence that the Law of Soil recognizes the municipalities in order to be able to undertake modifications of planning. Madam Counsellor, you are submitting an amendment (which has not been revised, as requested by this House), a non-substantial amendment, when it is binding and is more than substantial, with urgency without justification, without the corresponding strategic environmental procedure (notes have served you), apart from the procedures established by the Law of Ordination, without a broad process of participation, without consensus of the COPU, usurping competences to the municipalities and the deputies, modifying or colliding with the Law of Soil, contradicting your own words in this House, without a legal report that validates the rigour of the document. Madam Counsellor, your attitude is not welcome, because in view of the lack of consensus you should have left the subject on the table for your study and subsequent review or analysis. Instead, it approved the report and continues with the processing. There's nothing going on here, all ahead! It is very serious that the planning of the territory, in which all the institutions (government, deputies, municipalities) are involved, continue with the procedure without the support of the deputies and the municipalities. Where's the respect you said you had? Where's the respect? Madam Counsellor, do you intend to review the Territorial Planning Guidelines as indicated in the Ordinance Act and respecting the powers of deputies and municipalities?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u175	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know very well where to start, Mrs López de Ocariz, because you have said a lot of things, and almost all things are not true, because you do not use another word. In any case, I do have to tell you that I am glad that, at last, after a year of working on this document, you have read it in great detail, as I have had occasion to see. First of all, I must express my amazement at the accusation, clearly unfounded, that we are trying to usurp outside competences, to leave the municipalities without competences in urban planning that they have been exercising, and so on. And I explain it to you by following the text of your inquiry, argument by argument. No, we are not in the process of amending the DOTs, no, but we are faced with a timely modification of the DOTs. With regard to residential quantification, in fact, the previous Executive took the decision, in October 2010, to initiate a process of non-substantial modification of DOTs (non-substantial modification of DOTs), which also included the issue of residential quantification. It was included, this chapter was also included. And I also have to tell you here that it didn't suddenly occur to this executive, to the previous executive. The work on the diagnosis, evaluation and initiation of the revision of the guidelines had begun in 2006. Therefore, these works have been on the table for a long time. This Government, the current one, included in its programme of work the need for a comprehensive and comprehensive review of the DOTs. On 4 March 2014, the Governing Council closed the process of non-substantial change, except for the issue of residential quantification, for it is necessary and timely to have an improved and updated formula that facilitates the calculation of new housing needs more in line with the current reality of our demography, our housing stock and the way our cities are shaped. And it is precisely that, of a mathematical formula, of how the data are inserted into a mathematical formula, of what we are talking about. We're not talking about competitions, Mrs. López de Ocariz. We don't talk about competition. No change of competences, of course. I also tell you, for your peace of mind, that we are working on the process of reviewing DOTs according to participatory processes, because we want the process of DOTs, of the complete revision of DOTs, to be participatory. And it's something that's really complex and hard to articulate. We are working on that, and you will see its fruits – I hope – after the summer. It is quite false that one month would be allowed to file allegations. It was three months before I could make any allegations. But it is not just that, but that the proposal had previously been presented twice at the Basque Country Territory Planning Commission, in March and May 2014, before the formal proceedings began. All the officers had been told by the Territorial Planning Commission, and I have to tell you that they all liked it. It seemed good to everyone, the start of work seemed good to everyone, and no one questioned the issues of competence. We were talking about a mathematical formula, we all agreed that we were talking about a mathematical formula. Precisely in order to start and respond personally and directly to the allegations made, at the request of our department, and in particular the Vice-Adviser of Territorial Planning, held four meetings (one with each of the three deputies, one with Eudel), between 11 December and 9 January, and the result of these meetings was consensual changes in the proposal for residential quantification. Responses to these written allegations were sent to the complainants on 13 February of this year. On 28 January 2015, a proposal for a decree was formally sent to the members of the commission – among others, outlaws and Eudel – to be informed at the session of the Territorial Planning Commission on 18 February, prior to its provisional approval. The report before its provisional adoption. I have to tell you that this proposal for a decree contains exactly the same degree of obligations as proposed and provided for in the order for the initial approval of the hearing and public information procedure on which the allegations were made. As far as the vote in the committee is concerned, there are also some important points. The Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation voted against precisely because it considered that, although this proposal is a step forward, it is not enough; it should have gone further in the way of computing things like empty housing, sponging coefficients, etc. I invite you to read the transcript, which I can give you, of the intervention – very timely and correct – of the deputy of Gipuzkoa, of the deputy Errazkin. The Bizkaia District Council did not object to the proposal, but abstained in solidarity with Eudel's abstention. That's what he told us. The Foral de Álava did not tell us any of the skills, nor of these kinds of problems that you comment on. He voted against it. At no time did he make any reference to the subject of competitive invasion. Eudel abstained, and accepted our proposal to continue to gather and work together. Plus, that's where we're at. But I also have to tell you that there are more members in the COPU. For example, the Spanish State Administration, which voted in favour. In the initial approval... because this one we are talking about is the interim approval report, prior to the provisional approval, but it is that in the report prior to the initial approval the only recorded abstention was that of Gipuzkoa, that of the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation. All the other members voted in favour, all of them. All the other members voted in favour, and I am talking to you about many, many, many months, almost, almost a year ago since we started talking and working with all the agents on this issue. I would like to insist that the proposal of residential quantification is a rational proposal, which aims to adapt a formula for calculating the forecasts of the creation of new housing taking into account or according to the evolution of the population in recent years, the variation of the family size, the number of people living in dwellings, the number of empty or unoccupied dwellings existing in the municipalities... It is more about assuming criteria of sustainability and responsibility, without unnecessarily occupying or artificializing more soil than the precise one, which I believe is a discourse that we all tend to join. As for processing, of course it is within the law, Mrs López de Ocariz. And I am also glad that you have read my words in this House, because I obviously continue to subscribe to them in their literality and I think they have been very timely, and I am glad that you have repeated them. Therefore, there is no change in any jurisdiction for the approval of municipal planning. This would also be impossible, because you know well that a decree cannot amend a law. And when we're talking about these issues, we're talking about those things that are regulated by the Soil Act or the Land Management Act, and we're working on a decree that was never going to change anything in those laws. To finish this first intervention, we are modifying a mathematical formula established in 1997 and adapting it to the needs of society and the urban tissues that we have in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u177	Counselor, I've read more of your stuff. And speaking of consensus, in February 2011 you appeared at the General Councils of Álava and you referred to a matter of urban upgrading, to a resolution of the Planning Commission of the Basque Country Territory of 13 March 2009. Meeting in which PNV members voted in favour of this requalification and those of EA, among which you were, voted against, but they were a minority and requalification was approved. You said in the General Councils of Álava that you had never seen a similar course of action in your career in the Executive, since the agreements of this committee were unanimously approved, and, if they did not exist, the discussions were postponed to next dates to try to reach a consensus. What a mutation you have suffered! He's infected with what he was reporting! Counselor, rigor. But it is that I have also read more things than it says, for example, its director of Territorial Planning, who said a few days ago, before February 18. He said: "The Basque Government wants to manage and recover old infrastructure and industrial or residential spaces and give them a new use, increasing their life cycle. And this is the basis and objective of the amendment of the Territorial Planning Guidelines that will be provisionally approved next week." Futurologist: I knew perfectly well, a week in advance, that they would be approved. And what does the government want? Its director says so: managing the soil. That's what he wants. That's it. Don't sell us motorcycles here, because that's what they say in the articles. And you in the articles, in the document proposal, the second document, which has nothing to do with the first, because it incorporates aspects that were not in the first... Yes, ma'am. Or have you not seen the first document? Because you haven't seen him anyway! I don't know. Counselor, be honest. Get to the formula, because obviously we can all agree to reduce residential capacity, but not that you try to manage the soil. And if there are things that are regulated in the Soil Law, what do you do by quoting them here in an article? What do you do, if it's already regulated? Counselor, you can't cheat, so many and so often. I ask for respect, respect for the institutions, respect for the people who represent the institutions, and respect for them. And please reconsider this attitude, resume the review... don't resume, start the review. No, that's left her parked, the DOT review! You're not even interested in anything! That's why you took this, not by chance, because you're interested in this, not the other. Why have you not done a review, start the full review and incorporate this work into the review? Why don't you do it like that? What's your interest? Why is this urgency and haste? Explain it, clarify it, explain it, tell it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. And to answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u179	Mrs López de Ocariz, spatial planning, the Territorial Planning Guidelines, which started its revision, as we said, in 2010, proposed a revision of this formula. We have continued with that work, because we believe that a different formula needs to be established. I've told you before. The same formula, better said, but with a different data input. Because when in 1997 we were talking about the planning of the territory and about the quantification of housing, it turns out that in each house five people lived on average, and at the moment we have an average family size that can be around 2.2, depending on the municipalities. By setting just one example of the variations that our society has undergone, our demographics, our way of living, our way of using cities in these years that have passed from the near 1997 to today 2015. That is why we believe it is time to put in place a formula in which it is measured in a different way. But we're working on that formula. Not at all. Not on all those issues that you invent, and that you tell us what we intend to do. The text of the decree, of the provisional approval, I have told you, raises the same degree of obligation, and the same content as the previous one which was presented and which sought all votes in favour (except for the abstention of the Gipuzkoa Diputation, as I have also said before), because we all understood that it was necessary to make such a modification of the mathematical formula that establishes the number of dwellings that the Land Management Act (LOT) of 1994 says it is for the Basque Government, with the reports that it must do, within the Land Management Commission, that is what we are doing. Emergency? No, no, It's not an emergency procedure! I told him the first steps were a year ago. It's not an emergency procedure. What we do believe is that it is necessary to reformulate that mathematical formula, so I have been explaining it all the time, because we have a different society and demography. Do we want cities, our cities and our towns to grow infinitely, urbanizing the countryside? I don't think so. I don't think anyone in this House wants that. I don't think any administration wants that. I believe that we have all expressed ourselves in this regard. Now, if that is not what we want, we will have to equip ourselves with the tools that will allow that not to happen, because, if not, we will continue to urbanise the countryside. And to put very close examples, for example the City Council of Vitoria, the City Council of Vitoria, which, by the way, I have to say, made a positive assessment in the Territorial Planning Commission. He had no vote because he was on behalf of Eudel, but he took the opportunity to make a positive assessment, in addition, of the degree of agreement or agreement he had had with my advisor, with my department, that all the allegations had been accepted. For example. And what's going on? That if we continue to apply the formula that we have in force, then Vitoria can make 36,000 more dwellings, in a housing park that we are talking about 97,000 dwellings that has the housing park of Vitoria, and we will allow you 36,000 more. This improved, updated, real formula, with feet on the ground, marks 26,000. That's what we're talking about, Mrs. López de Ocariz. We are talking about making the accounts in such a way that our municipalities are more sustainable, more logical, allow for better management, but not getting into anyone's skills or home. But it is up to us to put that framework in place, because that is the framework for spatial planning set out in the Territory Planning Act 1994. Therefore, I insist, under no circumstances are we getting involved in anyone's competences; we are modifying a mathematical formula, adapting it to the current reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-27.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. I shall next read an institutional expression: The institutional representation of the World's Day of Strange Diseases. "This is a message of hope and is addressed to every one of them. "It is natural to make the euscal society observe the effects of living with a strange disease, and to transfer the states which are to be met with every day by the families around us, by making special mention of the rapid and severe diagnosis, and the proper treatment. The morality and commitments ought to ensure their daily existence to be the daily routine of the whole community. "The European area is known as a low-prevalence disease that affects less than 5 people in 10,000 people. Certain institutions are calculated that in our neighboring countries I can influence 6% of the population, but the epidemic data is not very numerous, and therefore it is difficult to know whether such esteems are correct and can be applied to Eukadin. "For this reason, the Basque Parliament expresses its support to all affected persons, all their families and to Feder on World Rare Disease Day, and is involved in achieving the objectives set out through the ten proposals for this year 2015, maintaining the protection of the health and social rights of those affected by an uncommon disease. "It is essential to continue to ensure equitable access to life-saving medicines and health products for rare diseases; to improve the identification of patients through the Rare Disease Registry; to facilitate access and comprehensive care, both for paediatric patients and adults; and to promote improvements in access to services and services such as rehabilitation and psychological care – the basic common framework of the National Health System. It is also essential to continue to facilitate referral, authorized by Inspection, to all people affected by rare diseases, and to support the creation of new centres, services and reference units for integrated multidisciplinary assistance. "To induce, for example, to combine new medical measures and investigations from early Diagnostics, is indispensable to those who suffer these diseases. It is indispensable to become an early diagnosis that the process should continue to improve itself and to give emergency services and first attention services information about rare diseases and their reference centers. In order to do this, the explanation of the institutions must be maintained for the development of the planet of strange illnesses, and also a guarantee of the necessity of existence, by introducing the demands into the direction of the Sanitarian movement beyond the limits of time. "In other words, we must distinguish the peculiarities of rare diseases in order to establish new calms of destitution; in order to ease and encourage the transfers in the field of dependence; and we must continue to assure the special needs of education and discipline, in order to respond in a proper manner to the particular needs of the students with strange diseases. And all this, co-ordination established in other departments (as health and social policies), in this way to pay full attention to the needs of these persons, and also pathologically to promote the formation, information, and sensitisation in society, education, and health). Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, the whole meeting is considered finished. [[Applause]] It was two o'clock in the afternoon and forty-seven.
