ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our decisions: on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022, as proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. In good tradition, let's start with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, today 156 days of the courageous struggle of the Ukrainian people against the crimes of the Russian invasion. The heroism of our army will forever enter the chronicle of history. So I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the heroes, defenders, and defenders who sacrificed their lives for the sake of a sovereign, independent, European Ukraine. We will remember forever. We also honor the memory of the innocent victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, today July 29 is the Day of Force Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The force of special operations is one of the youngest and most advanced components of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the military elite of our nation, who is capable of carrying out the most difficult tasks of combat. Ukraine prides itself on its defenders, who are decently and professionally protecting their home land from the Russian aggressor. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we sincerely thank all the military and veterans of the Force of Special Operations for their unbreakable fighting spirit, high professionalism, exemplary and dedicated service for the benefit of Ukraine. We want strong health, family well - being, strength, new great achievements in the name of strengthening the security of our nation and, of course, victory over the enemy as soon as possible. Let us applaud the Special Operations Force with a professional holiday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, just before I begin, I would like to give my word, a statement came from two factions replacing the performance. I want to give you my word, three minutes, to Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrovsky. Please, Samantha Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u2	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Mr. Speaker, you've spoken all the words today. I am delighted to welcome you today, and it is very good that we have a sitting day. Yesterday we saw guys who were rewarded. Two of them own a shevron that belongs to the Force of Special Operations. And I'm proud to have a bearing on the special operations force reserve, on the gray, steel beret. I am pleased that my colleagues, our colleagues: Roman Lozinski, Sergey Rudik, are also proud to wear these berets and are proud to wear Chevrons, and today they serve in the ranks and benches of the Force of Special Operations. Very often these names of the boys and girls who serve will not be seen or heard. Unfortunately, you will see them very often only on the list of fallen heroes. I would very much like the state to make every effort to ensure that their families and especially those involved in the implementation and implementation of the tasks set out in the SSS are protected. And I would like to address the President today, too, because the fourth month has passed since the adoption of Bill 7180, which is helping to fully implement the function that has been laid down by us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the section of the bill on national opposition. This is primarily about the conduct and operation of intelligence operations and the fullness of the resistance movement. I know that few of you know about this activity and that you don’t need to know about it anymore. But, dear colleagues, I would very much like, especially the faction of the majority, especially the professional committee, to bring once again to the President's Office, as well as to the President about the signing of a bill that allows for the full implementation of its function in terms of resistance. Besides, I can't help but think about the following things. The force of Special Operations is pretty much, except that it's an elite force, it's a kind of force, it's also conjoint. And it's very difficult and difficult to carry out your operational tactical tasks without: (a) tools and (b) without the support of other kinds and types of forces. I'm going to a profile committee that has a person's mandate and that's tracking purchasing moments for some kind of force, to perform and to be able to perform specific tasks. So that we don't go around the world with our hands stretched out, but we can make sure that it's a sea center, or that it's guys and girls who do their tasks deep in the back, and then the factories are set on fire by accident, after some cigarettes and to some extent. And I certainly can't help but quote my colleagues, friends, brothers and sisters' slogans, "I'm coming at you." My request, it has always been the most elite tool, the presidential tool, to be able to fully work today for the SS. Thank you, Heroiam! Glory to Ukraine! And I thank everyone and everyone who serves in the benches of the steel berets today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u3	Heroim Slava! Thank you, Samantha Anatolyevna. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held to predict the results of the vote on matters of order. I'm asking the people's deputies to take part in the signal vote by pressing the "Pro" green button. But I'm reminding you that you have to use the sensor button to hold both of them until you get the results on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready? People's deputies please take their seats. We're moving on to an emergency vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please vote. [[10:16:49]] For 232 Guys, look, when I start voting in favour right now, it's a green button vote, so we can see the number. But the right to choose is the right to choose, it's the right to choose, I can't deny it, but it shows that either we listen to each other or we don't. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The list of questions that was previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council has been given to you, but before I move on to it, I give the word of Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u4	Yes, colleagues, it's a procedural moment. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary group "For the Future" of July 27, I report on the election of the leader of the parliamentary group "For the Future" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth People's Deputy of Ukraine, Taras Ivanovic Batenka. Welcome, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u5	I think it's the right tradition that we have to bring our heads, not our heads, our co-heads, but all the factions of our heads. So let's still listen to the Rules. Yeah, yeah, yeah, not nod your head, but listen to the Rules. Let's move on, dear fellows. Let's turn to the question, 5371-P is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.07. 2022 on the adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain legislative acts on the simplification of labour relations in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises and the reduction of administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities (registration number 5371) from 13.04. 2021. I will report that, in accordance with part nine of article 48 of the Rules, this issue is dealt with in a simplified manner. Please, I give the floor to the author of the draft Order cancelling the Ukrainian People's Deputy Volin Mikhail Yakovich. Please, Mikhail Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I hope your attention is drawn, because the question is extremely important and is of a resonant nature. The point is, on July 19th, a law was passed in Ukraine, a law in parliament that violates global international norms and standards, the Constitution of Ukraine and everything that could be violated. In this regard, I and my colleague Mikhailo Cimbaluk prepared a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.07 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian law on the second reading and generally on the amendment of certain legislative acts on the simplification of labour relations in small and medium-sized enterprises. entrepreneurship and reduction of administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities (registration. No. 5371 of April 13, 2021.) Dear friends! It was only yesterday evening that I learned that a letter was being prepared by President Byden of the United States to the Ukrainian authorities so that such laws would not be adopted in Ukraine. Biden, president of the United States, intends to protect the people of employment in Ukraine and turn to power. Here are the letters addressed to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Speaker of Parliament, and these three times were addressed to the fact that in Ukraine, in connection with such a bill, international standards and standards would be violated. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that without me, you know very well that the level of trust from the population of Ukraine to the parliament is falling to zero, and so does Parliament because of mistrust, it also draws power in a negative rating. I very much ask you to take a close look at this situation. It's this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u7	Thank you. I give a brief word for the results of the consideration by Committee of Calchenk Sergio Vitaliyovich to the Committee on Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u8	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting, reviewed the draft Decree 5371-P and decided to recommend to Parliament that it be decided by a vote on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that the initiators are speaking, and we are voting. Right? Therefore, honourable colleagues, I propose to adopt a whole draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.07.2022 on the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, the Ukrainian draft law on amending certain legislative acts to simplify the regulation of labour relations in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities (registration No. 5371 of 13.04. 2021. Number of this project. Order 5371-P. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:22:49]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The next blocking order is 5371-P1. This is a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.07. 2022 on the adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain legislative acts on the simplification of labour relations in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises and the reduction of administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities (registration number 5371 from 13.04. 2021. I remind you that in accordance with the Rules, part nine of article 48, this issue is dealt with by a reduced procedure and without a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary. I invite the author of this decree, the People's Deputy, Mr. Levychenka Valentina Alexandrovich. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people of Ukraine! Today, we're proposing that the Fatherland faction and many other factions cancel the decision that deprived people of their rights to work, to earn and to get paid for it. Here on home land, here, during the war against the Russian Federation. Now, where are these people working now? They're on the front. Turn on the direct broadcast, show on the screen at least one defender that supports cancelling their work rights. Turn it on! None. Because they're on the front waiting for something else: that we're going to strengthen their rights, that we're going to increase their wages, that we're not going to cancel, and we're going to beat them in the back. How many of them have now given their lives for Ukraine, we will soon learn. But I know for certain that the leaders of the unions went to fight with the labour groups. And I know for certain that the Supreme Council should have the iron will to cancel this decision and to improve the labour rights of Ukrainians — every defender, every protector. This is what unites Ukraine, and it unites Parliament – working and protecting our defenders. But here and now in this Parliament, and we urge you to vote in favour, cancel and restore the rights of people to work. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u11	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u12	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Committee had before it draft Decree 5371-P1 approved the conclusion and had decided to recommend to Parliament that it should be decided by a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We are moving on to a decision on this decision to annul the decision of the Supreme Council. So I'm proposing a whole draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.07. 2022 on the adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain legislative acts on the simplification of labour relations in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises and the reduction of administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities (registration number 5371 from 13.04. 2021. The number of this Order 53., the number of this Project Rule 5371-P1. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:27:03]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Thank you. Thank you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the next 7605. The honourable national deputies, with a letter to me, here are the leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups on the urgent review of the draft Law, registration number 7605, amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the optimization of certain issues of forced alienation and the removal of property under the legal regime of the state of war, and on the need for urgent consideration of the matter was noted at the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups and agreed to consider it without discussion. Therefore, it is suggested that we move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am primarily asking for a vote, a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law, registration number 7605, to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the optimization of certain issues of forced alienation and the removal of property under the legal regime of the state of war. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to vote now, because we will continue to vote very intensively, and you will simply not be able to make it, and we will not have enough, as always, one or two votes. Once again, I'm putting to the vote a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law, registration number 7605. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:29:04]] For 258. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I immediately put to the vote the proposal to consider and make a decision today on the draft law (registration number 7605) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to optimize certain issues of forced alienation and the removal of property under the legal regime of the state of war. Please vote. [[10:30:05]] For 254 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law (registration number 7605) amending certain laws of Ukraine on optimizing certain issues of forced alienation and the removal of property under the rule of law. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:30:37]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law (registration number 7605). [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, we just finished the Conciliation Council. We've come up with this decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, one minute. Please remain in your seats, as we have always, for some time now, the decisions of the Conciliation Board are reviewed one minute before the vote. It's becoming a chronic kind of, well, misunderstanding, Arthur Volodymyrovich, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I have a letter on my hands, signed including "European Solidarity" about immediate consideration. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u14	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, why did you change your mind? Because after nine o’clock in the morning, GNEU came to the conclusion that the law could not be enacted. It is not clear what this is or who will determine the interruption of the functions of the active object, the role of the PNDP in this situation, the transfer of the object, is unclear. Two critical points are the very critical conclusion of GNEU. That's why we're going to abstain from voting in general. And please, everyone, hold on. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u15	Thank you. Thank you. All right, the faction's position is expressed. You're just holding back, but that doesn't mean we can't put it all together. Do I get it right? So, dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote, please take it. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. What's wrong? You just said you'd keep it simple. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand you're publicly withdrawing the signature under this letter? No, an explanation to me, are you withdrawing? You're withdrawing the signature? You're calling it off. That's all you need to know about the deal with you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I can't vote in general then, the only thing I can do is cut the line. But. Thank you. If you were to read the Rules, you would understand that consideration is exactly what we're looking at in this room. Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, the only thing I can do then is cut the time limits, but. Everyone feels guilty about what he takes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we cut the deadline for amendments and proposals to the second reading of Bill 7605. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:34:54]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. This simply indicates the decision to make. [[B in m in s a l in]] I forgot to ask you what to say! Forgot to ask you! Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill we agreed to vote without discussion is 0160. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement "Programme for Vocational and Technical Education in Ukraine" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. If it doesn't change my mind, then I'll put the vote on the ground as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I propose to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement "Programme for Vocational and Technical Education in Ukraine" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0160). Please vote. [[10:36:13]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill, 7594. This is a draft decree for the creation of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on issues relating to violations of legislation that have led to crises in Ukraine's energy market before and during the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. On the Conciliation Council, we decided to take a decision in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies. Dear colleagues. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I didn't ask if it changed, I'm just finding out the decision of the Conciliation Council. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I propose to accept, as a whole, the draft law on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the preliminary consideration of violations of legislation that have led to crises in Ukraine's energy market before and during the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (registration number 7594). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:37:35]] For 268. Decision taken. Let's move on. Next bill 7427. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed that one amendment to the "Fatherland", Soboljeva's three minutes, Krulka's three minutes, Kucherenka's three minutes. After that, Dmitri Razumkov is two minutes and one confirmation check. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you not to disagree, it's a gas law, so we need to understand whether we support or not. I invite the head of the committee. I'll get started. It's a step-by-step correction. Who's planning on it? Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u16	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I ask your attention for a moment, this is a very complicated law, it really saves all of us today, the country through Naftogaz, because we really need to guarantee that there will be money and there will be gas in us, because otherwise there will be no heat, there will be nothing. But what do I propose? At that time, for a period of military action, Kabmin was given the right to appoint and withdraw the Supervisory Board without competition, or Kabmin’s responsibility. Because today's council is not formed and what we saw at the meeting yesterday is unfortunately chaos in management. Nobody's responsible for anything. I propose that Kabmina be given the right and responsibility to take charge of the Naftogaz NAC situation, Edit 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the only thing I'm going to ask you to do is call the amendment number first, because we need to find out. One second now. 23th Amendment, now. Say the number again, because I heard 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u18	2389.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u19	Ah, 2389. Then one second, wait. Dear colleagues, while the position of the committee on amendment 2,389 of Kucherenk's authorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u20	Just give me a second, I'll find this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u21	I can do without it. Dear colleagues, amendment 2,389 of the authorship of the People's Deputy Kucherenka. The committee turned her down. The author insists on counting. I'm putting Amendment 2389 to the vote, please. [[10:40:50]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Please 3 minutes – Sobolev, then 3 minutes – Krulko, then 3 minutes – Kucherenko. Then two minutes -- reason and then there'll be some amendments to the confirmation, and then we'll vote on the law. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, it's a very long-suffering law, but it's a law that has given us an opportunity as a parliament, a government of Ukraine, a separate Ministry of Finance to look at the general situation in the gas market. Three key issues that we've actually identified and been able to establish, but I think a temporary follow-up commission will do. Question number one. So what are the real gas needs for this season? Unfortunately, the differences offered by the Cabinet of Ministers in need, NAK Naftogaz, and which were established during the review, the Ukrainian national deputies, who insisted on their rights, allow for the claim that the variances amount to almost three and a half billion cubic metres of gas. These are, in fact, the differences at the present price of gas, the crazed costs needed to pay and buy the required volume of gas. The other one. You probably remember how in the best gas-buying season, about $2 billion that was available at NAC Naftogaz, these funds were not used to buy gas. They were used for any other needs that led to the significant and heavy losses that we had suffered in the previous gas season. The situation is no better now, which is why all the changes that the Fatherland faction and our colleagues insisted on were called three key norms. The first is the volume of gas. The second is an audit that should determine in real time the needs of the state, the needs of commercial enterprises and the need for the gas population. And the third is gas production. Regrettably, not only war and Russian aggression, the seizure of parts of Ukraine and its temporary occupation, have led to a decline in the volume of gas production. And that is why the four key amendments supported by the committee would, in our view, provide an opportunity, along with our decision to form a temporary special committee, to set up the necessary volumes clearly. Every month, we analyze the online mode of supply and use of gas, and this will actually allow us to actually enter this season ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u23	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Please, Ivanovitch Krulko, 3 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u24	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a pity the Ukrainians won't listen to us right now and don't see us on TV so they can hear this discussion. Now we're looking at an extremely important bill, not just in terms of how the country will live the heating season and whether all homes and Ukrainian enterprises will be provided with heat in terms of war, but primarily in terms of how much money was planned to be allocated to the NAC Naftogazu in one hand so that NAC Naftogaz could supposedly buy gas, import gas, to secure the heating season. The original bill proposed 264 billion for Naftogazu NAK in one hand. What does this mean in terms of numbers? And this is half of the state budget for the second half of this year. Just so we can understand the scales on which, in terms of war, for someone's war, and for someone's mother's. No analysis was carried out on the gas balance, none. No analysis has been carried out, and how much real Ukraine needs to purchase gas in these circumstances. Maybe you shouldn't buy it? Because we realize that most of the businesses don't work because of the war. We realize that the vast number of cities in general will run out of heating seasons in the temporarily occupied territories or in the zone of active combat, simply destroyed by Russian aggressive attacks. And it turns out that the gas of its own production would have to be fully sufficient for Ukraine to go through the heating season and not have to buy anything, and these costs could be directed towards those needs that are now the top priority for the country. It's defense support, it's the provision of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it's increasing the material security of Ukrainian pensioners, teachers, doctors, all of those who really need the help of the state today. So instead of doing any analysis, nothing was done, they just drew the numbers from the ceiling and passed it in the form of a bill. And notice, dear colleagues, that the "Fatherland" team, Julia Timoshenko, by conducting a very small team analysis, 63 billion dollars, we were able to find at least the extras in this bill and the budget committee supported our proposal. So we were able to save this money for the government budget. I don't think such bills are supposed to come into the session room after a serious analysis, as it did this time. And we will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u25	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. The word is given to Alexia Yuriovich Kucherenko, three minutes. After that, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, two minutes. And then we vote on three amendments to confirm, and we vote on the law as a whole. So I'd like to ask the national deputies to come to the workplace. And I give the floor to Alexia Yuriovich Kucherenko for the time being.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u26	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman, the head of the committee, well, it really has to be acknowledged that this is one of three very non-trivial laws. They go three and they only make sense in a package of three laws, because there will be further changes to the Tax Code, we will discuss separately, and changes to the budget. As far as this law is concerned, I would like, first of all, to thank the members of the committee, the head of the committee, who unfortunately can't hear me right now, but I will repeat, the head of Mr. Gerus' committee, for having finally heard some proposals for the removal of this law, which were put into the first version. There, we endured with our colleagues the absolutely egregious standards for the confiscation of municipal property. We have set up a moratorium on the price of gas for the heat utility, which guarantees not only the non-increasing of tariffs for heat, but also guarantees that they will not be subject to debt obligations for which local communities will then be accounted for. We've taken down the OSB problem, a complex problem in the relationship between OSB and NAC Naftogaz. We're finally solving the problem of auditing the full, not just Naftogazu NAC, but all its subsidiaries, which is very important, because that's where huge money is now disappearing. We are obliged by the government and the Ministry of Energy to give us within 10 days a full gas balance so that we can verify all the calculations. But I'm paying attention to you, Mr. Andrey. Mr. Andrew, I'm asking you very much, because I've been thanking you just now, and the committee, but I'm paying your attention, and we're all concerned that this law doesn't solve the chaos in the gas market that we've been seeing in recent years. It is an accident, not a systemic one. And if. We're not going to support it because of its incompetence, but we're not going to stop you from taking responsibility for the gas situation. But the Fatherland faction insists that we must immediately return together to this temporary special commission, which we have just voted on, develop, analyse all the problems and issues in Ukraine's energy markets and correct them immediately in order to move from the emergency rescue regime to the normal, peaceful, planned work in the energy and utility spheres. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u27	Thank you. I give the floor to the people's representative of Razumkov, two minutes for the performance. And then, colleagues, we're going to vote on two amendments to confirm. People's deputies please take their seats. And then we vote in favour of the law as a whole. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u28	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the question today is not even in the amount that is being discussed. The question is that this money is not in the budget, and it's about possible loans that are going to be taken. What the credits at Naftogaz are doing, we've already seen: the company went bankrupt, the company got the default, and the default got the Ukrainian budget. As for inefficient management, we've talked about this a lot, and so have I. And the outcome of this work today is that it is precisely because of our position that Mr. Vitrenco was unable to become minister. Today we continue to date a company that spends money, not on gas purchases, but on the purchase of armored jeeps for itself, which it cuts out in Poltava. And a lot of other things you can talk about today. I very much hope that the fact that road regulations came into force again in a related law does not affect the national MPs who three days ago told them that they would never vote in favour of the law. Let's look in the hall, see who the roads affect, and the gas is the air that allows them to continue to exist in politics. Or the principle of position remains a principle without changing the budget and without allocating additional resources to political activity. I don't want anyone making money on Ukrainian gas and Ukrainian citizens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Honorable Fellows, we have concluded our discussion of who was to speak. I give the floor to National Deputy Konstanovic. It will set two amendments for confirmation. Do I get it right? Please. National deputies, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to ask for confirmation of the bill 2390 because it does not correspond to the subject matter of the Energy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u31	It's considered by the committee, but I give the floor to the head of the committee for the speech. Please 2390, Andrey Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u32	This amendment really provides for changes to the Economic Code, which is the subject of the Committee on Economic Policy. I informed the head of this committee, but I was urged by the first deputy head of the committee from the "Paternity" party. And as part of the compromise, this amendment was supported by a committee. That's why we want the bill to be adopted, so we've been looking for compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, amendment 2,390 of the authorship of the People’s Deputy Kucherenka, National Deputy Konstankevitch puts it on the stand. The committee took this amendment into account. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:54:12]] For 278 Decision taken. The amendment remains supported. Please, National Deputy Konstanovic, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u34	And the second 2,394, which applies to the same situation. Please put to the vote and do not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the same situation, the amendment of 2394 by Alexia Yuriovich Kucherenka. The committee also counted it, I think the argument is the same. So I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 2394. Please vote. [[10:55:01]] For 284 Correction supported. Dear colleagues, please remain seated. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Specificities of the Regulation of Relations in the Natural Gas Market and in the Field of Heating during the Operation of the War and Further Recovery (Registration No. 7427). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:55:44]] For 260 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you, colleagues. Please don't split up. Next thing you know, there's only two minutes of Alexi Yuriovich Kucherenk's speech on this bill and we're going to vote. Please, 7428, draft Law amending Chapter XX “Transitional positions” of the Tax Code to ensure the stable functioning of the natural gas market during the operation of the state of war and further restoration. Pussy, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, this is the second law. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. This is the second law in this package, which, unfortunately, does not withstand any criticism, because it essentially brings NAC Naftogaz out of tax legislation and gives it a green street so that, in fact, it's a crazy profit that can arise as a result of government budget funding, so it can continue to be used uncontrolledly. On the other hand, considering previous critical addresses, to speak from some deputies who forgot that they supported the bill in the first reading, by the way, just a short memory, I can say one thing. If there is a strong parliamentary control of NAC Naftogaz, the financial state of NAC Naftogazu, that can be done in several ways. This is also because of the temporary investigation commission that you created, a reminder that my colleague Krulko is leading. This is also due to the creation of a supervisory board, and I insist that the government be responsible for Naftogaz NAC and its financial situation. This is also due to an audit, a public audit, which, by the insistence of the Fatherland faction, was included in the previous law, against which some MPs were opposed. So this is exactly how a public audit will give us the answers with you, or the correct use of Naftogaza NAC funds, or they disappear in that black hole again. And the last. Friends, NAC Naftogaz is a monopoly, it's a state monopoly, it can save the country, but it can become extremely dangerous to the country if you don't control it. Feel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u37	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, please don’t break up, we still have Nina Petrovna who will make five amendments, three of them of her own, and, as I understand it, two amendments for confirmation. Or am I wrong? Nina Petrovna, call the numbers right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u38	17th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u39	17th or 18th?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u40	17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u41	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, with regard to the previous bill voted, everything would be fine, and we could speak calmly if you did not extend the functions and scope of Act 1639 indefinitely. This creates an absolutely unprecedented situation in the country when all natural gas consumers stop paying. You're causing a new cash flow, and I don't know what the size of it is. When the debt was closed after December 2020, it was necessary to stop living and working only with some lobbyist promises and to cover the difference in payment for such compensations. Now the situation for the country is becoming dangerous. We've been working on an extra project with NAC Naftogazu and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, 17th Amendment. Committee position. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u44	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. We really talked about it in four working groups. It's a technical proposal, if we're talking about 17 amendments, not the substance of the bill, where the tax and Minfin think it's just complicated in administration and asked not to accept it. That's why we didn't support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting on the 17th amendment of Nina Petrovna of the South. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:27]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, next, call the number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u46	29 revisions. Why did I start talking about everything like that? Because I understand that everything doesn't support the amendment, even though I could explain specifically for the 17th. So, working recently, two days ago, with management, we disassembled all the subjects involved in the compensation chain and VAT in the 17th Amendment, and the income adjustment that will be taxed. Actions now defined in the law are wrong. There may be different situations, and they are not included in these laws. So we're going to have subjects that are now having losses, and we're going to allow them not to include them in tax revenue, so we're making them even more corrupt and all this at the expense of government funds. I'd like to support the 29th Amendment with certainty. It refers to the non-inclusion of compensation received by the chain operator in the difference between gas and gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u47	Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u48	Colleagues, we're looking at a technical bill right now. And as you've adopted the previous 260 votes, so and now, even though some arguments may have a point, but now we need to support this bill as it is, including leaving this revenue tax wire. Thus, the committee did not support the 29th edition of Nina Petrovna of Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u49	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna’s 29th amendment She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[11:02:21]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovy, and the final amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u50	I've got two revisions for 18th and 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u51	No, no, wait, wait, because I was told three of you. If that's all, then one second. Is there anyone else who can make adjustments? Nobody. Now let's move on to the revisions for confirmation. Nina Petrovna, do you have, I take it, three amendments for confirmation or two? Two. Can I have your numbers, please? I'm 18 and 43. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u52	That's 18th and 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u53	Please start at 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, we have come to believe that the committee, after re-reading the basic law, has not reviewed the tax system. So saying it's technical, well, it's at least, it means not to understand the processes that are going to take place with tax legislation. I'm not having lunch. I'm just saying that there are no interested people on the committee to look into the details. And this is our huge problem. Because it was the previous advances that were made at the expense of Naftogazu. Do you remember this scheme where you all shouted that at 10 billion we would pay the miners a salary? So now in this amendment, at 43, the truth is, it's a bill that was already used by miners to pay the income tax for today's NAC Naftogaz. So think. And technical amendments to tax laws, changes to the Tax Code simply don't exist, they don't exist. And the 18th amendment applies to gas 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u55	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u56	Nina Petrovna, at least you and I wanted to know, we had a few meetings even after the committee. Colleagues, 18 revisions are very simple. In 2014-2015, the Russian Federation put gas in occupied areas and the customs declaration was not signed. And this is about this disputed gas that we definitely shouldn't pay for occupied areas, and so we're just solving the problem that's been going on since 2014-2015. Minfin supported it, Kabmin supported it, and we also supported it on the committee without discussion. Thank you. Please support this amendment now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The 18th Amendment of the Iron People’s Deputy, by Nina Peter’s Jujanina. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to vote in favour of amendment 18. [[11:05:07]] For 258. Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. 43rd, right, Nina Petrovna? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u58	In order to be able to support the 18th amendment, it was necessary to amend the text regarding this single contract gas that was then supplied by the Russian Federation. And we agreed with NAC that it was actually somewhere on the committee that this detail was lost, which is very important to allow that gas to be blurred without paying customs fees below zero customs payments. This is the first time. 43 the amendment is about this scheme that I just showed you. So this 10.3 billion that they said they got into the budget, and actually Naftogaz got all the resources to make the race. Now we want to be able to use 6 billion NAC Naftogaz overpayments today, not two years ago. I mean, you know, you remember my phrase, I said that NAC would be corrupt, there wouldn't be any of those costs in the government budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u59	The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, very brief. The NAC overpaid in 2020 is the truth. But then when we passed the law, we thought he was going to use this overpayment in 2020, in 2021. So it's left over, there's another amount -- less than 6 billion -- and we're just cleaning up the limit, they're judging anyway. Again there was support on the committee, well, that's the right thing to do. So I'd like you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again 43 amendments to the authorship of the national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. In turn, the national deputy of the Yuzanin bets. She's a committee member. In turn, National Deputy Eugene puts it to the stand, so I'm putting 43 amendments to the vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:07:21]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. We still have two amendments from the people's Dubinsky MP to confirm, and then we vote in favour of the law as a whole. People's deputies, please don't disperse. Alexander Dubinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, we have some strange changes in the gas bill regarding green energy. That's how we always do it. We're discussing the very important things that we need to go through the heating season, and then bas and green energy again, which we still have very large preferences. So two adjustments: 11th and 24th give you the advantage of green energy. I remind you once again that the objectives of Bill 7428 do not apply, but they do allow green energy companies to pay taxes in a so-called cash method, i.e. only when they receive income from the state. And we have, as you know, the highest price for kilowatt electricity, which is eight times the price that it gets, for example, Energy from the energy plant, but they pay the tax only after they count the costs. I don't know any businesses in Ukraine that get the support of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers as green energy. I'm asking you not to support these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u63	I understand it's about the 11th and the 24th, yes. Please take the seat of the committee. These amendments are partially taken into account, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u64	The fact that they don't apply to gas is 100 percent. But let's talk as opposed to many committees, we immediately warned ourselves about that when we considered it. What's the problem? We've got a lot of heat stations now, and now green energy, it's balancing these powers. So, under pressure, including your colleagues, this amendment was introduced, supported by Minfin and again, they'll pay taxes, just when they're supplied and when they're accounted for. I don't really, honestly see any budget losses here. And, frankly, the logic, given the situation that is now military, is in these regulations. And there were many foreign producers of green energy, in no way related to nationals. So please support the committee's position and support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u65	Thank you. Then I'll put them on straightaway. Are we not going to bet? Are you insisting on betting? You insist. Dear colleagues, the 11th Amendment of the Marousek People’s Deputy, is considered in part by the Committee, and the Dubai People’s Deputy puts such a decision on the committee for confirmation. So I'm putting this partial amendment of 11 Marousek for confirmation, and the committee's asking it to be confirmed. Please vote. [[11:10:12]] For 254 The edit remains partially accounted for. And the 24th amendment, as well as the people's deputy Marousek, the same situation, is partially accounted for. The national deputy Dubinsky asks that this amendment, as part of it has been taken into account, be submitted for confirmation. The committee requests that you leave it in the form, including the consideration it has made, so please vote on the 24th amendment. Please vote. [[11:10:51]] For 252 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter XX, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure the stable functioning of the natural gas market during the course of the state of war and further restoration (Journal of Law 7428-2). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:11:44]] For 247 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. And, the final of this three, Bill 7329. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed on three minutes of Kucherenko's speech, three minutes of Cymbaluk, three minutes of Kirilenko, three minutes of Kirilenko, and then the Iron Man will make two amendments to the confirmation, and then we'll vote. Please don't go far. Please, and on the rostrum, I invite Goek Vladimir Leonidovich, from the committee. Please, three minutes, Kucherenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u66	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is the third chord in this concert, the budget changes. And I, on the one hand, am very pleased, as is our entire faction, that thanks to the initiative of the fatherland leader, Mrs. Timoshenko, of this faction, the budget committee has listened to our proposal, to our letter that we have addressed. And right east, from the first attempt to support our proposal, to cut 63 billion into this crazy sum, 264 billion that was supposed to be attached to the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine. What is the nature of this sum? Two things: first, on our initiative and repeated appeals to the government, in the course of the bill's consideration, the government has adopted a decree to impose special duties on Naftogaz to supply gas for the heat utility. So Naftogaz is not 100 dollars, it's not going to import parity, it's going to put gas and it's going to demand compensation from the budget, it's going to be 7.42 and so high price, and it's going to let us not raise the tariff, and it's our credit in that, and it doesn't need any budget subsidies. The cost of this question is 24 billion dollars. The other one. A simple analysis by our experts showed that in the financial plan of NAC Naftogazu, approved by the government for 2022, 111 billion has already been invested, and unfortunately 111 billion grants from the gas budget have been approved by the government. Of course, the question is: Why did Minfin make a 150 billion claim? We drew the attention of colleagues to this figure, and in addition, colleagues agreed to save 39 billion dollars of the budget. And that, already, under the pressure of Fatherland and its leader Timoshenko, 63 billion, colleagues from the budget committee, we have found and saved with you for a budget that needs to be redistributed primarily to the needs of Ukraine's Armed Forces, to the PSC, because the best preparation for the heating season is missile defense, to protect infrastructure projects, remember that. Of course, we need to help regions, cities, and OTG prepare for winter, emergency supplies to do so and so forth. They know what to do, there would be money. Here's the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u67	Thank you, thank you, dear colleagues. Please continue Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the fact that sometimes simple innocent votes change the fate of whole sectors, spheres, regions, and even the whole state. Perhaps you are all reminded of what happened after the ratification of the Kharkiv Treaties or dictatorial laws in 2014. It is recalled that 10 years ago there was a vote in this voting room that radically changed its attitude toward Ukraine. All of a sudden, a bill was introduced into the hall that forgave payments to the budget for one very sieve, a large company worth 24 billion dollars under an imaginary pretext of debt — utilities, consumers, and so on. As it turned out, they were debts to themselves that were loved. Friends, noise-gam in the hall, blocking, scandal. The decision passed, and for the first time, Ukraine’s international partners suspected something unclean. Sorry, that's when we were called a corrupt country, unfortunately too. The IMF stopped co-operation, the World Bank refused to lend a standby. The budget gap is 3 billion. The President then and the Prime Minister are running into a white stone, reportedly kneeling before the Kremlin’s chief and asking for 3 billion. On the shoulders of the bar, he gives but one condition: no association with the European Union. Friends, and then there was Vilnius, and then there was Maidan, and then there was the story before our eyes. Unfortunately, in the rain today, today's vote is innocent, for 265 billion, the sum is 10 times higher. Ruslan Alexiyovich, no government representative! A national budget is being voted, half the second half of the year. The prime minister repeatedly claims that the main thing is defense. Where's the defense? Why won't he go to the rostrum, and he won't refute what Timoshenko said in the rostrum: 10 factors, 10 arguments that can't be accepted? No one's disproving it. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of Defense. Last night, it's published as much as we need to get to the counterattack. That's money, too. Where is the Minister of Social Policy? Are all questions resolved by wounded fighters, our heroes? Or the families of the fallen heroes. Are all the problems solved by displaced persons? Where is the foreign minister who should say -- this is international aid -- do the international partners agree with the lion's share to be directed right here instead of the defense? Ruslan Alexiyovich will now be responsible for the vote, for which we will then be responsible. The government did not come shyly. How will those who press the button during the war feel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u69	Thank you. Please. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. And now I give Michael Mikhailovich the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u70	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. As John Kirilenko continued to speak, however, the Supreme Council loses its subjectivity. What government? Even Mr. Vitrenco did not come, but three important bills are being considered. The government has simply become a mechanism for legalizing those government-run tools and, in this case, Naftogaz of Ukraine. Congratulations, this is a positive day, because it's a decision to create a TSC. I want this interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to finally help the Ukrainian society answer: and what is the price of Ukrainian gas at which Naftogaz buys it? So we can finally hear the answer, like the entire Ukrainian society, whether there's going to be an audit of this company and where the money was shared, the ones that the law enforcement officials called. The results of a criminal investigation conducted by the Security Service on this subject may finally be disclosed. And we look forward to the new Attorney General's position on this issue as well. Perhaps the interim commission of inquiry, if allowed then, will provide an answer as a result of the analysis: what was it that led to the mistakes that we are considering on the last almost day of July such important questions? Where were they in the spring when they said that gas was being purchased? I think the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council and its esteemed head will finally give an answer and here, in the session room, is NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" needed. It's a superstructure that doesn't get it because it's getting scraping and private structures, it's not transporting or transporting Ukratransgas, and it's not distributing because now it's running Black Mornaphtegas. There's a question, fellow respectable fellows, and everyone else really lives to just give money, no responsibility, and the previous leader of Mr. Kobolev, as well as the current member of the same team, and now it's like a competitor. The "Paternity" team will not vote for this third woe-of-law project, but winter will ask all those who prepared or imitated.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u71	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who wanted to speak. Then I have two amendments to take into account by Sowsun and two amendments to confirm by Ironman, and we're going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. First, we make adjustments. Please, National Deputy Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I ask you to consider two of my amendments: 1395 and 1437 and listen carefully to what these two amendments are about. Most of the people’s deputies have just voted in the Chamber for more than 250 billion to borrow, find somewhere to buy gas in the markets of the European Union. My amendment suggests doing something else. She suggests that money be allocated to reduce the consumption of gas. Colleagues, that's what Europe is doing right now, that's what we need to do. And I very much ask you not to forget that winter is going to be very difficult and the probability that we can buy and find the money to buy all the gas we need is extremely low, and instead of reducing consumption is a requirement of time, that's what the European Union is doing again, that's what the International Energy Agency is recommending, and that's what Ukraine should do. And I'm really sorry that we're talking about this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u73	Thank you. So now two amendments to Sowsun: 1395 and 1437, right? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u74	Yes, unfortunately, the author did not provide sufficient explanations and calculations as to the reality of the sources of funding for the proposed additional expenses. Thus, the amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I'm putting amendment 1395, National Deputy Sowsun, on the line. She was rejected by the committee. But a national MP wants to be counted. I'm making amendment to 1395. Please vote. [[11:24:27]] For-84 The decision is not taken. And another amendment from National Deputy Sowsun, 1437. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't you put it? Don't you insist on voting? Thank you. He doesn't insist on voting. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall, there will now be two amendments to the confirmation and then we will vote on the law as a whole. Amendments 1381, 1455. From what I understand, I give the floor to Jaroslav Ivanovich Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, if you went to the Supreme Council, you probably saw exchangers with a dollar figure, minimum, of 41. This includes the fact that 240 billion people have already printed Nazbank. And it's going to keep printing, because we do populism very often. This amendment, 1381, tells us that Nazbank will not only continue printing money but also give up his income for these valuable papers. First, we need to learn how income is different from income. Secondly, enough cynically in the law that we're asking for money from internationals to lift a fine that violates our obligations to internationals. Thirdly, if you think about what the consequences will be, like the recapitalisation of Nazbank, we'll do worse. So I'm asking, including, I think it's the position of the government not to support this amendment and send it to the aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u77	What is the position of the committee, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u78	The committee considered this bill, which allows the funds from the IMF to be sent to the state budget immediately without waiting for the end of the year to be redistributed. She was supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 1381 People's Deputy Kuznietsov. She's supported by a committee. At the same time, the National MP, Železniak, asks that the amendment be made for confirmation in the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm putting amendment 1381 on confirmation. Please vote. [[11:26:50]] For-146 The decision is not taken. The amendment is considered rejected. The next amendment is 1455. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, this amendment to the roads. I don’t know how roads are connected to gas, but I do know how they are especially loved by some on the budget committee. You and I have voted that all remaining funds during the war can go to military operations, mobilization, TR funding, housing for displaced persons, and the purchase of armoured vests. So at the last minute, we have this strange letter that some of our colleagues on the budget committee want to put this money back on the road. I'm having a bit of a déjà vu, too, with a hedge fund. Do you remember what happened? I don't know how we're going to explain later not even to our constituents, just to ourselves, how the money that goes on the army and the TRO now goes on the road. Please reject this correction and do not be so disappointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u81	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u82	The amendment deals with the cost of special community funds that they could spend on road repairs. As these funds have now been really blocked, this amendment allows local communities to see that, for example, they have their budgets redesigned, and there is a need to repair the critical roads that the community needs to make, so they will be able to go there now. So the committee supported the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 1455 by Aristov and Krulk She was supported by the committee. At the same time, the National MP, Ironborn, asks for confirmation. The position of both the committee and the Ironman, you heard. So I'm putting amendment 1455 on confirmation. Please vote. [[11:29:22]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Correction not counted. Let us move on to making a decision in general. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 (for financing measures aimed at regulating relations in the natural gas market and in the area of heat supply during war and further recovery) (registration number of Bill 7429). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:30:17]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next bill we agreed to, 6067 and all alternatives to it. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on employment reform, social insurance for unemployment, promoting productive employment, including youth, and introducing new active labour market programmes. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:30:59]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Please sign up: two in, two in. National MP Schwacko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u85	Galina Mikolayovna Tretlyakova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u86	On July 8, the Supreme Council returned the bill to the second, and it was thoroughly worked on the committee. Especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u87	I mean, one more time just, yeah. Again, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u88	One more time, I'm sorry. In particular, the rights of the national deputy Stefanchuk regarding the gig contracts that are already in force in our legislation. In general, the bill aims at reforming the State Employment Service and increasing the insurance functions that are now being used in the unemployment fund, which includes the State Employment Service. In particular, the bill proposes to change the length and extent of unemployment benefits. Establish public work funding at the expense of local self - government and temporary work, such as those that do not promote motivation for work. It is also suggested that a specific list of social services in the field of employment, which includes information services, be consulted. And social services will also be provided to labour market entities in an order approved by the State Employment Service, solely by the following persons: career counselors, career counselors, career counselors, employers. In fact, the bill introduces reform of the State Employment Service, where professional, professional people will provide advice on employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, Ion's Mary. Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u90	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, an important bill, has a lot of interesting and correct rules, but unfortunately, it also has rules that are not supported by the unions, which is about reducing the length of unemployment payments. If it is paid in the course of a year, it is proposed to pay for six, seven, eight, nine, ten months, depending on the insurance system. There's an increase in the level of the insurance internship to calculate the amount of unemployment assistance, reducing the actual size of such assistance by 5 to 10 percentage points. Unemployment payments are declining during the second half of its duration. Yes, if today the amount of payment over the year depends solely on the length of the insurance period, then the first half of the duration of the aid payment is proposed to pay it at 100 percent, the second half is only 50 percent, which actually reduces the aid that is today. The conditions for the granting of unemployment relief for those released under the treaty are deteriorating. Today, unemployment benefits are paid from the 1st day after the registration, and it is proposed to compare them to those who have been released at their own request and to pay for assistance only from the 31st calendar day. So, my friends, there's a narrowing of the social rights of citizens. I understand how difficult it is for everyone today, but the citizens today are probably the most difficult. And given how many people today lose their jobs, how many people today need support, our faction feels that it is wrong to vote on such a bill. So we urge you not to support him, but to complete the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u91	Please, National Deputy Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u92	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honorable Colleagues. As the chairman of the committee has already said, we have considered at our own meeting and the option offered by the government, including several alternatives. What the government has proposed cannot be approved today because it provides for a very harsh economy of the funds of the National Insurance Fund in case of unemployment at the expense of the insured persons themselves. As a result, we feel that this cannot be allowed. The current law, article 22 of Law 1533 provides that the total length of unemployment payments may not exceed 360 calendar days, for 2 years. The project proposes to reduce the length of unemployment payments from 360 to 180, 210, 240, 300 and 330 calendar days, depending on the person’s length of service. At the same time, 360 calendar days are for those who are 30 years of age or older. Thus, the changes to article 23 increase the length of the insurance service to calculate unemployment benefits that entail such a reduction. At the same time, if unemployment benefits are recorded, unemployment is paid for the first 90 calendar days for 100 percent, for the next 90 to 80 percent, for the next 70 years. So the project offers the first half of the duration of unemployment of 100, and the next half of the project offers the first half of the duration of unemployment in the next 50, which reduces the amount of pay. The social situation of the workers cannot be aggravated.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, we have a closing statement, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. And I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, because after that we're voting on this bill. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor Mr. Head, it's precisely this case where you have to speak less, rather than vote. Please put the question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u95	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. So I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues! Oh, one more minute, Iron Man, please. The railroad is one minute, and the people's deputies are invited to the hall. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, this is a positive and normal bill. Let's face it, we're doing a great job right now of Sustainables, I've personally encountered mariopolitans as they work. We've got an immediate increase in the number of unemployed, but you won't see them because they're fast getting jobs. And this bill is just about two simple things. The first is to change inefficient quotas and give employers, including compensation. And that's okay, we don't have to do Soviet work and we have to support entrepreneurs. And that's logically what everyone's asking. And secondly, it's an approach to employment. And he's giving this unemployment benefit in general, too. And that's what people are asking. Because let's be honest, let's say we're there for communism or capitalism. And if it's for capitalism and for entrepreneurs and for workers, you definitely don't have to support it until the first reading at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u97	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee, to adopt a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on employment reform, social insurance in case of unemployment, promoting productive employment, including youth, and introducing new active labour market programmes (registration number 6067). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:40:04]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6067. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:40:30.]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill, 7595, is a draft decree on certain measures to fulfil Ukraine's obligations in the field of European integration. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:41:03]] For 285 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[11:41:24]] For 244 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u98	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to the rostrum by the authors of the Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you of the day that this flag was inserted in this hall and the small flags are now in your seats. It's not just the great honor we applauded, it's the great responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's why we've worked with all our colleagues during this period to start setting up the work of the Supreme Council so that the Euro-Integration Laws as our commitments will be accepted within the walls of the Supreme Council as soon as possible. And the first step to raising the quality and raising the rate of adoption of these laws is this Order. It works with all factions and groups. It has a large number of subscribers. She's working with the European Committee. With the European Integration Committee, she works with scientists and other partners. This is the first step that will be followed by changes to the Rules, which will allow the quality of drafts to be raised, which will be considered for European integration, and will accelerate them if adoption is urgent. I ask you to support this Order. I ask you to support Parliament's movement on the path to European integration. I ask you to do everything we can to open up open and honest negotiations by the end of this year on the granting of full membership to Ukraine in the European Union. And I am convinced that Parliament will handle this work with honor, because I believe in Parliament, people believe in Parliament, and we all believe in Parliament. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u100	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Integration with the European Union, Ivana Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze, to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union at its final session, discussed this draft decree on some of the measures taken to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations in the field of European integration. And it recommends adopting a defined draft ruling in general, taking into account the committee's proposals, with technical and legal rights. And these proposals of the committee were agreed, indeed, with the authors and initiators of this decision. I would like to point out that the European Union does not have any rules or a unified approach to how to adapt national legislation to the acquis of the European Union. And each country has certainly built its adaptation mechanism depending on its political, economic and social characteristics. This regulation has been developed by the authors to improve certain aspects of the legislative procedure with a view to creating optimal mechanisms for drafting bills aimed at adapting Ukraine's legislation to the provisions of European Union law. And they provide for additional proposals to be made and additional requirements to be included in every bill to be aimed at European integration. I hope that this will indeed be the first step, this decision, and then we will move on to the drafting of the amendments to the Rules, so that this decision, which will be of a recommendational nature, will have full force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u102	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. I'm going to ask you to sign two, two, against this decision. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, Fatherland, please. Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u103	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, it's very embarrassing for me to hear from politicians who are trying so hard to get orders for us to integrate into the European Union somewhere, because some declarations have been made, some decisions have been made. I would like to remind you that it was in 2014, when citizens of Ukraine went out to Midan, that they immediately began to point out to the active authorities that the Ukrainian people wanted to join the European family of the peoples immediately into civilization. Where human rights prevail, where a person is at the centre of attention in all of his movements. And then there went the other movements. The city heads who then headed the cities clearly held sessions where a number of decisions were taken. It was a parade in almost all of Ukraine's cities to raise the flag of Europe, because the flag of Europe, as set out in the protocol, is the flag of the European Union to be raised in its cities. Many cities have done so. Instead, the central authorities began to talk about the immediate need for the heads of the administration to turn to the courts and cancel the decision. Now the Ukrainian Parliament has to historically integrate all legislation into the European Union. But unfortunately, we see a number of laws in the same session hall, for example, like yesterday we passed the Privatization Act during the War. We need to keep up with the European Union, and more than that, our task is to integrate the entire Ukrainian people into the implementation of these laws. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u104	Heroic glory! The word is given to the People's Deputy of Princely Nikola Leonidovich, the faction of "European Solidarity". Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I am really very happy on behalf of "European Solidarity," that we are finally moving in this room to the adoption of decisions that should lead to our work of real work in fulfilling our international legal obligations in the framework of European integration. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it was this Parliament of the Ninth Call that started its work with what it wanted to eliminate in general the Committee of European Integration and, unfortunately, in the original draft decision that we are currently considering, that there was also an attempt, if not to minimize, to at least blur the role of the European Integration Committee through the establishment of subcommittees from European integration in all sectoral committees. Colleagues, this practice has not been used anywhere in any country that has gone from applying to membership, and unfortunately, I am not convinced that this practice will work in our Parliament. We really need the involvement of all sectoral committees, but through involvement and through further training, probably all parliamentarians to understand what our commitments are. I'm glad we've been able to reach agreement with the initiators, with the authors of the draft decision, and at least a little improvement on the mechanism that is being proposed today in this way. And with the proposals of the profile committee, our committee, we will support this determination. But the next step is the changes to the Rules, and they need to be treated honestly. And we also need to develop a national mechanism for European integration and make additional commitments, additional commitments. The need for capacity-building for both Parliament and Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u106	I invite you to the words of Soto Choloevich Mamyan, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u107	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u108	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please. And then we vote, invite the national MPs. One more speech and we're voting. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u109	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you for your initiative. I was probably one of the biggest Europeanists in this room, not because I didn't want to, but because I knew exactly that it was very long and I would say it wasn't very open. But now the situation has changed, and we've had a historic chance to become members of the European Union. We need to adopt as soon as possible the laws that are laid down when we apply to the European Union. So I urge everyone less to talk about it, rather to draft laws and vote them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u110	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. After that, Mezentseva. And after that. Tell me, I can't see who's there.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u112	Jurchisin. I'm sorry, I don't have glasses. Please, Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u113	We support the need not only for regulations but for changes to laws, in fact, to activate European integration. One of the first of these changes might be, and it's not a big problem, to give the Euro-Integration Committee additional powers to evaluate drafts before second reading, because unfortunately, the vast majority of skin moments are involved at this very moment, and they're fundamentally violating our Euro-Integration aspirations, so on and on. So a huge request today to support the decision not to give up, but to speedily support, I hope, already developed by a committee of profile, to give additional powers to the Committee on European Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, I'm giving a final statement to Mezenszevna, the national deputy of Mezenszé Maria Sergiyovna. And then we vote. Please, Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, a moment of your attention. After this decision, nothing's going on in principle; it's trying to concentrate your work on the profile committees for the month of December, and on a common result. I'll tell you a secret. In recent negotiations with our European partners by the end of this year, we can officially start negotiations on full membership in the EU. This will depend on each one of us. There is no more important and less important committee. But I want to encourage you to let those colleagues who are not yet affiliated with the committees, and we have, more than 5, join the Euro-Integration Committee. We have nine colleagues working on more than 90 percent of all legislative initiatives. My favorite simple phrase for Ukrainians is about the water we drink, the air we breathe, the children who will eat normal baby food, the gas that will flow through our pipes, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u116	Thank you. Thank you, Maria Sergiyevna. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose a proposal to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, in general, a draft Decision on certain measures to implement Ukraine's obligations in the field of European integration (project registration number 7595). Ready to vote? Please vote. Well, I did. [[11:54:54]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill, 7598. This is the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and their parliamentary assemblies, governments and parliaments of the world nations on the non-recognition of the organization and the conduct of the occupational administrations of the Russian Federation of pseudoferendums in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine (registration number 7598). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[11:55:49]] For 291 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:56:09]] For 257 Decision taken. I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Helen Constantine Kondratjuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, it is an extremely important draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organizations, institutions, governments, assemblies, national parliaments of nations of the world on the non-recognition of the organization and the conduct of the occupational administrations of the Russian Federation of pseudoferendums in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Having occupied certain territories of Ukraine, the Russian Federation's aggressor state also wants to change their legal status through the conduct of pseudoferendums, in grave violation of international law in this way, primarily the right and respect for sovereignty, the territorial integrity of Ukraine. There are numerous reports in the Ukrainian media, in international media and also in national intelligence and in our partners, namely, an aggressor preparing ground for the annexation of our territories, changing their legal status and thus attaching them to the Russian Federation. We're facing a really new threat -- this is a repetition of the Crimean scenario by an aggressor country of the Russian Federation. Kremlin puppets, collaborators, scumbags who actually give up our patriots in occupied territories temporarily restrict Ukrainian television, the Internet, force Ukrainians to receive Russian passports, and create filtration camps. By this decision, we want to note that the pseudo-eferendums in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine cannot and will not be recognized by any country of the civilized world, international organizations and the state of Ukraine. And in no way will any country recognize the legitimacy of such referendums and their consequences. We also ask for the promotion of criminal and legal persecution of collaborators.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u118	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. I invite the Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Aline Leonidovna Zagorujko to report. Please, Alina Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Disinformation, insinuation, blackmail, nihilism, immorality, seduction and death -- that's how we can determine the existence of the Russian Federation, which has been involved in about 15 wars since 1991. But we believe that the war against Ukraine will be the last for this terrorist state. Colleagues, today we offer you a draft decree, a call to the leading international organizations, governments and parliaments of the world. Our main calls: to unite the efforts of the international community to establish the integrity and integrity of Ukraine's territories within its internationally recognized borders; to apply all necessary measures to prevent the aggressor state-Russian Federation and its higher political leadership from organizing and conducting pseudo-efferendences in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine that have no legal consequences; to reject the legitimacy of any form of national will; to strengthen international, political and economic pressure on the Russian Federation; and to promote criminal and legal persecution of persons who have taken an active part in the organization and in the holding of illegal referendums, political measures, have publicly called for their implementation. In particular, I would like to point out that, as in the last century, Nazi Germany, so today the Gulf Russia wants to take over and alienate our territories by force. To do that, the enemy is going to use a format that in a civilized world is not even close to a referendum, which is why we call it a pseudoferendum. This action will be organized under machine guns and cameras.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u120	Thank you. Thank you. Alina Leonidina. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this draft decision is very important. Please, Vladimir Igorovich Ariev, "European Solidarity"
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u121	Please tell Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u122	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, in 2014, Putin designed the Novarosia project, where he planned to include 11 regions of Ukraine. Since 2014, the heroic Ukrainian army has broken the script. And it preserves the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. But obviously the world, which then, let's say directly, closed its eyes to the actual annexation of Crimea, promised only to never acknowledge this annexation, but in cooperation with the aggressor country, today must make very determined and hard conclusions about its mistakes yesterday, and we have to make them. I want to remind you that this hall has passed the Cooperation Act only with the beginning of a full-scale invasion. And in fact, I want to remind this room that the D.B.I. and the D.A. are very often plagued by opposition instead of finding traitors, collaborators and direct agents of the Kremlin who were actually sitting in this room. Likewise today, it is very principle that we are considering this decision on the day of the SS because those who come quietly quietly have gone away, 100 percent will become our Mossad and destroy all Russian, all collaborators, if that does not happen. And today, our team still wants to honor the memory of the Glub Babic, the great man, the great Ukrainian, the poet of this war: "Everything will be here or somewhere. Because fate is the term. And the world goes all the way to the bottom of a soldier's backpack." I'm very sorry that the names of real heroes are so rare in this room, just like on the "Rady" channel, as in a single marathon. Deep down, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u124	Thank you. Please sit down. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Anton Alexiyovich Schwacch, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u125	It's hot.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u126	It's hot. Please, National Deputy Zagorujko Alina Leonidivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, we all understand very well that what they call a referendum is going to take place under the barrels of machine guns, under the chamber of propagandists of "Russian Peace" in order to agree on a beautiful picture for the Russians. But we are, at the same time, convinced that no civilized democratic country in the world will ever acknowledge the results of such pseudoferendums. When the committee discussed the information, took a decision, and we contacted the Ukrainian Security Service in parallel, the D.B.I. To investigate all cases related to the conduct of pseudoferendums and to use 111 with 1, 111 with code 2 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to ensure that all people involved in these crimes are held accountable. Individually, we must turn to those under occupation today. Do not think that you have been forgotten. Herson and Mariupol and Donetsk and Lugansk will be Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev was a faction of the Fatherland. Ivanovich Krulko, please. Dear colleagues, after this, Mr. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, but I know that he can cut his speech very short, so please invite the national deputies to the hall with a view to doing so. And after that, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, and then Julia Leonidivna Klimenko. And Rachmanin will be, I'm sorry, Rachmanin will be. Who's there? I can't see. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u129	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Russian Federation's terrorist state plans to organize pseudoferendums on Ukrainian lands, and Ukraine has already done so when no international law norm is observed when any national will is fair because it does not exist when foreign territories are engrossed. They're planning this referendum on September 11th. It's a very symbolic date when terrorists tried to attack democracy in the United States. Now the terrorist state is trying to do the same thing. And such dates Putin chooses by no chance, for him they are very symbolic, and he has long been reconciled to his terrorist lot number one in the world that must be destroyed. Destroyed in the battlefield and fully responsible for all the crimes committed in Ukraine. I am so aware that in this national, so-called, voluntary, very eager to participate in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which will not allow any pseudoferendum to be held, and all the Ukrainian territories: Hersonian, Zaporozhye, Donbas, Kharkishteina, Crimea will be repossessed and returned to Ukraine's territorial integrity. This is what the entire democratic world wants, and that is what Ukraine wants. And that will be the case, for it is the truth behind us. And all those Collaborators who now list voters, register voters who will contribute, will face criminal responsibility, and they will have to know and clearly understand that every act will be responsible for every crime. The Fatherland faction will support this Order, and we must not allow any referendums in our territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u130	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life" group. Then Batenko, Rachmanin and Shahov. And then we vote. Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u131	Thank you, Mr. Head, you see it all right, you have to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u132	Nestor Ivanovich, brilliantly constructive. Thank you. We've got three more people one minute and we're voting. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u133	On September 11, 2001, a terrorist attack was carried out against two New York twin towers at the World Trade Center. The Russian Federation wants to repeat in a foreign territory another by carrying out a terrorist act and annexing the territories. The state-of-the-art terrorist in its territory is also a pseudoferendum: that elections, that referendums, are pseudoferendums. So given that we don't have much time, I want to say that we don't. non-recognition must be preceded by the non-acceptance of pseudoferendums. So today, on the day of special forces, special operations of Ukraine, which carry out special operations in the back of the crow and the most complex operations, including in a foreign territory, we must prove and show that the last colonial empire in Russia will be destroyed. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u134	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u135	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, may God forgive me, well, this war was necessary at least to make sure that all who have a chat in their heads are finally convinced of what a terrible Russia is. Russia in this war has shown its beastly peak to all who have eyes. Russia’s misery is that it no longer hides that it denies us the right to exist. She wants to decide for us where to live, which god to pray for. The so - called liberation leads to homes and houses being destroyed. Russia horribly tortures our captives. And I take this opportunity, I'd like to ask a colleague. To honor the memory of today’s dead fighters of the Mariupol garrison who died in Olenovac in the occupied area.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u136	Thank you. Please sit down. Please, and the final speech by Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahova, MP group "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u137	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Everybody knows that I'm from those areas where these referendums started. And we need to speak now not only for not having referendums or for having referendums, but for punishing those who have been released from custody, and for punishing those who have been released from the custody of the villains who held referendums in Lugansk, Donetsk and Crimea. Punishing those who shed blood is the first blood. Hundreds of people were killed virtually in those areas, millions of tragedies. Today, children are left orphaned, and people are struggling in all parts of the world. Send those who have been released from custody into international search, search, find, lure here, into the country, and condemn as traitors the state, those who have killed the peaceful population and who have caused the war. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and their parliamentary assemblies, governments and parliaments of the world nations on the non-recognition of the organization and the conduct of the occupational administrations of the Russian Federation of pseudoferendums in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine (registration number 7598). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:13:13]] For 299 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next decision that we will consider is the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Vice-Presidents, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 7599). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. No, it's meant to be, with discussion, with respect. Dear colleagues, I would like to suggest that you consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. Only those who want to do so will come forward. Let's have a vote, please. [[12:14:04]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we sign up immediately: two for, two against, please. But write down those who want to speak, and then we move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies not to disperse because the vote will be quick, I hope. Please sign in. Fedia Sofia Romanovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u139	Please pass the word to my colleague Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u140	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u141	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, if this draft decree was just the distribution of new deputies on parliamentary committees, of course we would have supported it. Unfortunately, there is also the election of a new committee head. And with all due respect, we think it should be a separate decision. And that's why, of course, we can't vote for it. But I would like to take this opportunity to raise the subject of why today, as Mr. President of the Supreme Council has said, which is the flag of the European Union, and we all have to be really on these tracks. So tell me, in which European Parliament are you going to see that in fact the opposition has been deprived of any position in Parliament and the ability to influence the work of those committees or other committees? Where you will see the European Parliament, where the regulatory committee, the budgetary committee, freedom of speech is not in the hands of the opposition. Where will you see this? You won't see that anywhere. And so I urge you, once again, the committees that should be all European standards committees to control the opposition, the more so that we are all actually united today during the war. But we really need to demonstrate these standards. And once again, the budget, anti-corruption policy, the Rules Committee, freedom of speech are those committees that naturally have to be controlled by opposition in order for each of you tomorrow, and I'm now turning to power, able to respond to any allegations from any country in the world, saying that everything is under opposition because that's how democracy works around the world. Unfortunately, we see again: a staff assignment, if there is no fractional belongings of "Serve of the People," then good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u142	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, we really need to go out rationally. If judicial reform is one of the first requirements of our international partners, we cannot leave the committee without a head, so it is logical to vote. But I would like to raise a question that was raised earlier by the head and representatives of the Committee on European Integration, when we have a lot of deputies, enough, not fixed by committees and not working on committees. There are just as many questions as there are about transitions between committees, and we must finally come to that. And before a colleague of the European Solidarity Group spoke, we've now set up a preparatory group, in fact, in relations with the opposition and most. I invite you very much as the head of this subgroup of factions to put their delegates into this working group, because we really need to figure out exactly what format we're giving control functions, either by the D'Ondt mechanism that works in the European Parliament or by some other mechanism. But the fact that in a democratic state there can't be most of the heads of committees from one political power is true, and with that we have to do something, at least in the next parliament. Thank you very much, Vice-Spyer, Mr. Korneyenka, for activating this issue. It's also Euro-integration, by the way. We will vote in favour of the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u144	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor. It's strange to hear about the violation of the rights of opposition by a member of the Coalition of the Supreme Council of the previous summons. Who prevented the adoption of the Law on Parliamentary Opposition? As for today's vote. That's definitely, in the 19th year we hit hands and everyone got their quota, that's the quota of the corresponding faction, and the people's deputies have the right to work on the committees. Please allow our colleagues to work as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u146	Thank you. And please finish, Babak Sergey Vitaliovich. Finally, let us move on to the decision - making process. Sergey Vitaliovich Babak, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u147	Colleagues, I suggest you don't waste any more time and go to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u148	Beautiful designism. Dear colleagues, please the National MPs. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And then we vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u149	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we should not forget that the national deputy actually gets a salary when he works on the committee. There are deputies in this room who have been unable to join the committee for three years. I want to join even Sergei Vasilovich Mager, who is not here right now, and he's not assigned to the committee, I don't know, especially or not. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please engage in this process. Well, the national deputy really has to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call" (Registration No. 7599). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:21:14]] For 278 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We're next in line for Bill 7398. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts to provide civil protection requirements during planning and destruction of territories (this is a second reading). We agreed that our national deputy, Placzkova, would put two of her own. One, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, Guys, don't split up. Please, I'd like to invite Olenna Alexyevna Schulak to the rostrum. Please tell Tetjana Placzkova what the number of the amendment is.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u151	Good afternoon, colleagues! Amendment 157. Colleagues, we've adopted the Public Electronic Registers Act, and we've identified a clear hierarchy of all registers and a comprehensive list of these registers and the full name of these registers. We have determined that the basic registers include the Only State Register of Addresss and Registers of Buildings and Buildings. And now we're actually starting these registers with this bill, but there's one nuance: in different bills they're called different. And there's going to be a very large and legal confusion, and there's going to be a lot of problems in the government about preparing a regulatory framework for these bills. So I ask that this amendment be supported and sorted so that the register in all legislation is called the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u152	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u153	The committee's position is to reject this amendment. Today, however, the committee does not object and asks to consider Mrs. Placzky’s proper offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, then, let's sum it up. 157. Amendment of the national deputy of Crybaby. The committee rejected it, but you heard the author's reasons for the amendment, you heard the position of the person representing the committee. So I'm voting 157 amendments to this bill. Please vote. [[12:23:32]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on civil protection requirements during the planning and construction of areas (registration No. 7398). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:17]] For 280 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Then we agreed: 7352 without amendment, we immediately vote. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization and Mobilization on Postponance from Military Service in Mobilization to Scientific, Scientific and Pedagogical Workers (registration number 7352). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:06]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Also, the national MPs, we decided not to discuss the adoption of Law 7412. So I'm making an immediate offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, one change. For confirmation. Fedor Volodymyrovich, take your place. Who will place one amendment on confirmation? Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. One amendment for confirmation. Please. Sergey Ivanovich Rachmanin, we're already considering a bill that you had one amendment for confirmation to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please place number 10 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u156	What's she talking about? 10 is the amendment of Arahama, Besugane, Besgina, Venislavsky, yes, and others, and Rahmanin, including. Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please. Look, one second, guys, let's concentrate, we're all at work. I was told that you wanted to make a 10th amendment. Explain why. It's counted by committee. Sergey Ivanovich, please concentrate. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u157	Thank you. I'd argue if I had a microphone on. Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a committee bill that was voted on by the committee, but I would ask that this amendment be rejected, this position is agreed with both members of the committee and with the military, at the request of our colleagues from the Ministry of Veterans, who believe that the rejection of this amendment will improve the efficiency of the Ministry in the matters of veterans in adapting military personnel who return to peaceful life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u158	Committee position, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u159	Sergey Ivanovich, quite right. The process of adapting military personnel released from military service is complicated as a result of the adoption of this right. Thus, the rejection of this amendment will only improve the overall functioning of this mechanism, as foreseen by this law. This request is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u160	Okay. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this amendment 10th before this bill on. This amendment is signed by all members of the committee, but now it's a position, I understand, different. Thus, the 10th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Arabia and others is taken into account by the Committee. National MP Rachmanin puts it to confirmation, the committee agrees that it cannot be in this law, then I ask you to identify and vote. [[12:28:14]] For-22. The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. So let's move on to the decision-making process as a whole. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on a system of transition from military career to civilian life (registration number 7412). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:57]] For-286 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is 7415. We agreed: 1 minute is Fedina, and then we go to the vote. Please, National Deputy Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u161	Two adjustments, but one minute. I'd like that. Since the remedies were rejected and I was told why they were rejected, since the volunteers for the formation of the territorial communities were not members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But I want to raise the question for the future that there are voluntary formations of territorial communities in areas of combat action, which are actually doing the same thing in the defense of the Ukrainian State, and unfortunately at this point, they are not guaranteed any social protection. The emphasis was that it was their decision not to formalize, but also to defend Ukraine. But they have certificates, they have weapons, they have patrols, they protect Ukraine, but their status is not protected. And in the event of injury, either in the event of death or disability, they have no support. So I would ask very much for the future of the Security and Defence Committee to solve this problem in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 16 with the symbol 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for individual matters of appointment and payment of one-time financial assistance) (project registration number 7415). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:30:57]] For 283 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next Bill 7464 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on equal opportunities for mothers and fathers who are military officers to take care of a child during a special period. According to this bill, there was to be an amendment for confirmation. One minute, so is Fedina, right? Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, and then we vote, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u163	You don't have to bet the edit on confirmation, because in a constructive dialogue, it's all been decided. I want to thank the committee very much for the constructive work and for the real desire to ensure equal opportunities for military personnel of men and women, marriage, in the case of child care. I would like to remind you that this is a NATO standard, that members of the family have the right to decide who goes on specific leave to take care of the child and, at present, in the bill, these issues have been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on Equal Opportunities for Mother and Father, who are Military Servants, to take care of the child during a special period (registration number 7464). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:43]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill we agreed to consider without discussion. So I immediately propose to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization to expand the list of persons who will not be eligible for recruitment (registration number 7481). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:33:25]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill is the first reading, and we also agreed without discussion, so I'm going to make an immediate proposal, 6480. I would like to take the proposal as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the draft Law on Geographical Indications of Drinks (registration number 6480). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:34:08]] For 266 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6480. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:34:35]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows, next bill 6060. We agreed without discussion, no amendments. I therefore propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Public and Municipal Property Rights (Registration No. 6060). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:18]] For 260 Decision taken. The next bill is 7422. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to make medical and rehabilitation assistance more accessible during the war period. There was an agreement that there was one 26 permission for confirmation by the Ironman or one of the Votes? Oh, I'm sorry. Klimenko Julius Leonidovna, 26th Amendment, I understand, and then we vote in general. Please, Julia Leonidivna. Please don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, it's a fine and correct law, but somehow at the last moment, the number 26 law went into effect, which tells us what is going on in the financing of hospitals in occupied areas in uncontrolled areas of the Ukrainian government. So I'm going to very much ask this right out of this law, and this right doesn't have any relation to this law. In fact, she appeared there in some strange way. I very much ask you all to support and remove this amendment from the law, and then we will certainly support it, because it is the right and the right law. Therefore, I ask you to vote and to pass this amendment on to number 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u166	Thank you. What is the position of the committee? I'm sorry, Oksana Alexandrovna Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u167	The committee has supported this amendment, but we are now taking it to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u168	Right, right. Dear colleagues, then I place 26 amendments to the authorship of Raducci, Dmitri and others. She's a committee member. At the same time, National Deputy Klimenko puts it on the stand. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[12:37:30]] For-143 The decision is not taken. The edit is considered rejected. Colleagues, let's move on to legal decision-making. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase the availability of medical and rehabilitation assistance during the war period (registration number 7422). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:11]] For 271 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Hello! Let's move on, dear fellows. And then we have 7475. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect the state border. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:47]] For 229 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:09]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed two in favor, two in favor, and we vote, do I understand? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, the Cubans, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u169	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to pass the word to Ariev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u170	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u171	We're now looking at this bill at a time when we're getting information about how many victims have been killed after the racists committed the worst war crime they can commit: they shot down a camp with our prisoners of war. This bill that we're currently considering with you in times of war, in principle, well, it's not very good to accept, because, as the GNEU pointed out, it scatters what. Sorry, it's hard for me to talk because my friend died today. And this bill scatters border guards' powers, but most importantly, it gives us another moment. Anyone, including the Cheych Mansour battalion fighters, from whom someone is assigned to criminal authority, will be able to just throw up outside the country. I very much ask, at least on the first reading if we vote, we will work on the second reading. But most importantly, I want to call someone else. Then we will consider the application, the appeal to the European Union and the countries of the Great Seven in order to limit the financial possibilities for the Russian Federation. And this statement is very important for the racists to finally stop buying weapons or parts of those weapons overseas in the process of sanctions to kill our military. And so I'm very much asking for the next bill, the draft Decree 7582 on addressing the European Union and the Great Seven on the financial limitations of the Russian Federation to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, another performance, and then we go to the vote. I invite you to the word of Schwacz Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u173	Thank you, thank you. Please pass the word Zavávnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u174	Alexander Mikhailovich Zavodnevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u175	Congratulations, dear colleagues. I've got two minutes. I'm going to ask everyone to come back to the House of Our Fellow People's Deputies, because the law is very, very important. Who read this bill and even approached all the members of our committee, talked about the conclusion of the GNEU, as if it were very, very negative. Friends, colleagues, please don't see any scary things that some colleagues have been telling me about. Let me give you a little example. We all remember entering the Chernobyl area, and it is protective, recreational, and so forth. We have a lot of these zones. In this bill, we're just asking for a two-mile strip. According to this band, it would be possible to replace, respond to such attacks, and so many things in this bill. Yes, before the second reading, we will improve both with the Ministry of Agriculture and with other colleagues working on this bill, including the Ministry of Defence. And it's also a very important coordination between security and defence forces at different times: military, special, and peacetime, which I'm sure will come. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u176	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I'll bet. Please, that's why I'm saying I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues. Please, national deputies, take your seats and we will move on to the decision-making process. It's not a break, it's a ghost. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and let's move on. We've got two more questions left, friends. That's what we're going to vote on. Let us also vote on the conclusion of today. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the Ukrainian state border, the registration number of project 7475. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:59]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Let's do it again first, please. I'm proposing that this Bill 7475 be re-readed. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:25]] For 235 Decision taken. The law is aimed at rereading the first reading. Dear colleagues, next. I'm sorry. Alexander Sergiyovich will do the announcement. And let's move on to the final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u177	I can announce the creation of the IFF, and then we'll continue. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I'm reporting on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association called the Maritime Economics and Security of Ukraine. The heads of this union elected the national deputies Klimenko Julius Leonidivna and Kovalov Artem Volodymyrovich. Welcome!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u178	Thank you. Welcome, colleagues. Please, who's it going to be? Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko out of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention, Your Honor, to the following. Today is a terrible day, we're talking about the terrible loss of Ukrainians, the turn. And for eight weeks no bill, eight weeks, No.7449, on banning Russian book products in Ukraine has been signed. Please remind the President's Office of the need to sign this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u180	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna, if the issue is taken from the procedure, is the procedure. Once again, you took it out of procedure and so I gave you the procedure, but you didn't speak out of procedure. Let's not abuse the rights of the people's MP, it'll be the right thing to do. Let's go to 7582. Honorary colleagues, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Union and the countries of the Group of Seven as founders of an international anti-money-laundering group (FATF) for the strengthening of the fight against money-laundering and with the costs of criminal origin, with the financing of terrorism, with financial mechanisms used by the Russian Federation to avoid sanctions and which contribute to the continuation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:47]] For 237 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. Oh, stop, stop. Are you ready to go without talking? Good, 'cause I'm in the middle of a discussion. Discussing? Colleagues, they insist on discussing it. Then I ask you to vote on the simplified procedure for the consideration of Bill 7582. Please vote. [[12:49:29]] For 214 Decision taken. Please register: two for, two for, and no, to discuss this issue. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna. Dear colleagues, please don't leave, we'll have literally three speeches and move on to the vote. First Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u182	Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u183	Early this month, deputies from various factions attended a very interesting and important conference in Bucharest, organized by American Republicans. Conference, an inter-parliamentary conference attended by 56 countries in the world on intelligence and security. And at this conference, we worked very well with all the factions. And as a result of the work we submitted, I, along with my colleagues from the four factions of European Solidarity, the Servant of the People, the Voice and the Fatherland, have submitted a project to the European Union and the countries of the Great Seven as founders of the FATF in order to adopt more serious measures to combat the laundering of the dirty terrorist funds of the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation is now using a lot of tools, especially the fact that many of the costs, particularly those in the appropriate offshore structures, are undercover. They use tools like virtual assets in the Syrian zone. And these things are not fully settled today. Absolutely to everyone who was in Bucharest at this conference, I suggested that I be a co-author. Whoever wants to do this, they're done. Once again, four factions, four factions of the four factions, signed this statement. And I'm addressing you now. For the sake of the memory of those who were killed in Olenovac today, for the sake of those who have been destroyed in the last six months by the rascals, to vote on this appeal in order to circumcise the funds from abroad that they are still receiving today. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u184	Please, Schwaczko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u185	Hand over Olga Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u186	Please, Vasilevska Smagluk. Olga Mihailno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, in fact, with regard to addressing FATF, this question is of a global nature. This is what the Office of the President of Ukraine is currently working on. Thank you, of course, for this initiative. But actually, we have only two requirements to apply to FATF. First. Exclusion of the Russian Federation from the FATF countries. Exclusion of all employees and FATF members who have Russian citizenship. And the second is black listing FATF. The introduction of Russia into the FATF blacklist, which is exactly going to limit financial transactions with the Russian Federation and make the Russian Federation simply an outcast in the financial world. Everything described in this decree, with great respect for colleagues, is already being done in the international arena. We just need to focus on the purest detail -- to block Russia and exclude it from the FATF countries. That's all. And this appropriate decision will be registered in the near future. I also call on my colleagues to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u188	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction, and then we will proceed to the vote, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u189	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u190	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u191	Colleagues, I'm going to be very brief. I support both of these decisions and how much it takes for FATF to understand financially, if we exclude Russia from FATF, we're gently putting them on a globe, and no one will need their financial system anymore. So let's vote and do everything we can to really make this happen within a certain range, better in those that my colleagues described in their speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-29-m0.u192	Thank you, Your Honor, we have concluded our discussion of this issue, and we are moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Union and to the countries of the Group of Seven as the founders of the International Group against the Laundering of Dirty Money (FATF) for the purpose of strengthening the fight against money laundering and with the costs of criminal origin, with the financing of terrorism, with the financial mechanisms used by the Russian Federation to avoid sanctions and which contribute to the continuation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine (registration number 7582). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:27]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of our next meeting in advance. We continue to work for victory and glory in Ukraine!
