ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our decisions: on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022, as proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the government, are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in good tradition, let's begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I invite another member of the Presidium to take her place. Olena Kostvena, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the barbaric armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine continues. Our courageous soldiers defend the independence of the Ukrainian state every day in fierce battles, and they sacrifice themselves for freedom and for Ukraine’s future. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the defenders and protectors of Ukraine, eternal glory, eternal memory of the fallen heroes. We also honor the memory of the civilians who were innocently killed by the Russian military. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to work and start with a nice start. Today is the birthday of our colleagues: Andrija Viktorovich Joupanin, "Serve of the People", welcome. [[Applause]] And the Love of Alexander the Shpak, the Servant of the People, welcome. [[Applause]] We want strong health, victorious and creative work for the benefit of our nation and, of course, Ukraine’s rapid victory. Alexander Sergiyovich, before the beep, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u3	According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich, into the membership of the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u4	In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take part in the signal vote and press the "Pro" green button. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and hold these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is complete, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, the signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:12:18]] For 246 Wonderful. I repeat the rules of the signal vote every time, please press the "Pro" green button. It's equal to 1 versus 6 is held. That's fantastic. Thank you for that. It's simple. Thank you, democracy. Democracy is following procedures. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council has been given to you, so we are moving on to the agenda. Your consideration is being asked about the appointment of a minister of social policy in Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of a parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People" composed of the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of Žolnović Oksana Ivanovna as Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you electronically. Dear colleagues, we have previously agreed on the following procedure for dealing with this issue: presentation of the candidate by the Prime Minister of Ukraine for up to 2 minutes, presentation of the candidate for the post of Minister of Social Policy for up to 3 minutes, co-report from the committee to 2 minutes, statements from the deputy factions and groups, two minutes for the speech, up to 16 minutes and decision-making. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u5	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, we fully agree, by one exception, on the request of the factions and groups for three minutes each performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u6	Okay, I don't think there's going to be any objections in three minutes, but it's just going to increase, by eight minutes, the question. Is that the order of the day? Thank you. Then let us move on to the consideration of the matter. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to present the candidate. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Servant of the People", which according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine 9 citations, I present the application for the appointment of Zolnovich Oksana Ivanovna as Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u8	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the invitation of the candidate for the post of Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ivanovna Žolnović. Please, Oksana Ivanovna, in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u9	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Today I have the honour to present to you my vision of social policy development in Ukraine and this is an extremely exciting moment for me. Over the last few days, we've had a lot of communication with you in groups, factions, about the challenges, the problems facing our nation today and, in particular, the direction of social policy. I thank you very much for the fruitful discussion, for the keen questions raised, for the critical situations that we have heard and that need an immediate solution. I also want to say that I'm open to discussion and dialogue, and I'm sure in the next we'll continue our fruitful cooperation and we'll share a lot of useful legislative initiatives for the development of our nation. At the same time, I want to draw attention to those critical trends and strategic ones that need development. First. Changing the paradigm of social policy to a human-oriented approach that will combine both service and pay to get people out of difficult situations, not just leave them in this situation forever. The other one. Simplifications, digitization of all administrative procedures, as tons of paper information complicates, bureaucratizes work and does not enable people to get what they need in time, social services or payments they own. Third. Maximum rehabilitation development and timely provision of rehabilitation aids Such actions and steps will enable us to prevent disability and restore the victims in time for them to have economic independence. Four. The construction of a barrier - free environment for all types of populations, including small - celled groups and people with disabilities. Fifth. I think it's important, in a complex way, to implement poverty-removal programmes, including social housing, clothing, food, and a whole system of social services. Six. Family development and family policy Improving our birth rate is a big challenge for us today. Thus, a wider number of support programs for young families, the ability of parenthood and motherhood to combine with employment and career development, and the ability of each child to grow in the family are also important priorities. It is also important to integrate into the social life of the elderly, to provide them with honest retirement benefits, and to extend their opportunities. Many of these trends have already been or are being implemented. I'm drawing your attention to the individual bills that are here in the hall, including 5344, which is proposing a new model of support for people with disabilities, their employment, and 7,141, which will allow us to honor our defenders, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u10	Thank you. All of it. I'm sorry. Take your place, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakova, is invited to the floor for the report. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u11	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable Prime Minister, the honourable present, the invited and the candidate! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights at its meeting today, on July 19, 2022, at the direction of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyyovich of 18.07.2022, reviewed the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dennis Schmigal of 18.07.2022 on the appointment of Žolnovich Oksana Ivanovna as Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. This was also preceded by a meeting, a series of factions, and, accordingly, a faction of the "Slut of the People," which also recommended that Mrs. Zolnovich be appointed minister. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of Žolnovich Oksana Ivanovna as Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. I'm not going to stop at her personal qualities right now, I'm going to say that she and a group of experts participated in the preparation of the National Strategy for Restoration in Social Policy. I think all the tasks that are currently involved in this national strategy, she understands and will do them at her job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u12	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, we have agreed to move on to acting from the MP factions and groups for three minutes. I'm asking you to sign up representatives of the MP factions and groups for statements on this issue. Please, National Deputy Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyyovich, Ukrainian Remembrance Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Oksano! Article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine teaches us that Ukraine is a sovereign and independent state, stressing that it is also a social state. The Ministry of Social Policy is one of the most important bodies in the executive vertical. This year’s Minsocu activity: Ukrainian taxpayers paid more than 350 billion dollars from their own pockets, almost a third of the country’s national budget. We believe that at such a high cost, Ukrainian citizens have the right to demand effective policies. The rotation of a prisoner of such an important ministry during the war is both a risk and a chance for our state. The chance to become better, more effective, and more up - to - date. The Ukraine Recovery Group expects that with the arrival of the new Ministry leadership, we will be given a higher priority in the Cabinet of Ministers. We believe that the proposed candidate, Mrs. Oksana, will be able to preserve the heritage of the ministry and increase their communication with the profile committee. We are convinced that it should not be about the name, but about the power of the institutions and their effectiveness, especially in terms of the state of war. Ukrainians need a new social policy that will match the current situation and become the foundation for further strengthening state support. Ukrainians deserve high social standards and quality services. Our pensioners are not to be married; they are worthy of a decent pension for a full and active life. Support for unprotected populations should be shocking, not by the number of different forms of assistance and the means needed to obtain them, but by the effectiveness and urgency of the process. Finally, we have to provide a full-blown inclusion for people with disabilities. And new challenges arise in connection with the war before the Ministry of Social Policy and its leadership. These are the pressures on employment centers and the need to expand rehabilitation centres, and to increase the work of social protection agencies. The Cabinet of Ministers is primarily responsible for the party of power. At the same time, we realize that it is impossible to leave the country without a minister of social politics at this time. Our voters voted for us to work to overcome social injustice. That is why we support the candidature of Oksana Zolnović and count on fruitful cooperation for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u14	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. Same faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u15	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that I would like to hear the report of Minister Lazebna before we appoint a new minister. Because we appoint and appoint new ministers, and we invent bicycles every year or six months or two. So in order for the new minister to be able to take over matters effectively, it is necessary at least to listen to the report of the old minister released yesterday, Mrs. I hope on the committee she was reporting, even though she didn't make it for the hall. And it's a bad practice, unfortunately, which is tolerated in this room. As for the new Mrs. Minister, I would like to, and we've met, and we thank her for meeting her was really meaningful. But we want to emphasize the priorities that we see for social policy, for the new Minister and for the Cabinet of Ministers. First of all, it's the return of our citizens from abroad. Six million citizens are now abroad. Without effective programs, the Ministry of Social Policy, and the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Health, there is no possibility of bringing these people back, unfortunately, we do not see. So we're really looking forward to this priority, and that these programs are going to be developed first of all. The other one. Internally displaced persons who are inside the country who also need the attention of the Minister of Social Policy. Thirdly, verification, eventually, social benefits made from different funds. It's always been a breadwinner for corrupts. And we want to see that these verifications, these verifications are done. And people who really need social assistance get social benefits, not all who have expensive cars and houses use the government budget. Thirdly, we want to see that the social services law is finally implemented. It was adopted a few years ago. And we still don't see at community level or at community level there's actually no social services, we don't have old services, like boarding schools, like sanitariums, and many different care for older people, new ones don't open. And the fifth. We'd like to see programs for our veterans, namely prosthetics. We have 700,000 people in the army, many of them will, unfortunately, remain with disabilities. And we want to see specific programs for these people. Again, prosthetics should take place in Ukraine, prosthetics should be carried out without corruption. And we want to see that people who have been sitting on stretches for many decades as in a corrupt dining room finally get out of there. For prosthetics to be available absolutely for all. What is more, unfortunately, we will need it for years to come. So this is our wish to the Minister. We will be careful to make sure that this is all there is to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u16	Thank you. Please give the word to Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u17	Dear friends, it is very important today to support Mrs. Oksana Ivanovna’s candidacy, for without a minister of social policy today there is no hour. We understand today's load in the state, we understand, today a few fronts of work led by Vladimir Alexandrovich. And the Ministry of Social Policy is also a very big challenge today. And the previous speaker said, I support here, in terms of verification and digitization, in principle, of all social benefits, because we understand today's movement of people, we understand that we need to synchronize several bases of finding where today's person is, where he's living with his license, where he can participate in some of the other moments of discussion of losing social housing, giving documents. Today, this very important role and mission is being performed in Western regions, for example, by united territorial communities. I would like to find out, thanking the united regional communities in Ukraine for what they are doing today and the trials they are enduring, because today we understand that they are creating a new account of their immigrants — our citizens of Ukraine, who have moved to other parts of the country, were forced to leave because of Russian aggression in our country. So today there is and is forming a certain calculation of local communities and a certain vision of how to deal with these issues. I'd like to wish Oksani Ivanovna at work, if you work from a minister's chair, more often to form an opinion from a basic level where today we see practical actions, how we can serve our population, all of our forced displaced people. You're going to find this formula right here in the areas where our citizens are now located and they need your attention, your constant attention and your help. Nor can we and cannot leave even for a second those who have left our country. Today, I would like to make a very fruitful contribution to the Consular institutions and to you, Mrs. Oksano, very, very much please, pay attention to all of our forced displaced persons abroad, because they also need both verifications and identifications. I ask the consular authorities to establish this link and help our Ukrainians and abroad. Thank you. I wish you fruitful work and success in your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u18	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Vasilovich Makarenko, MP for Life and Peace. Mikola Skorik, please. Is that what I understand? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u19	People's MP Skork, MP for Life and Peace. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished members of the government, distinguished candidates, respected citizens of Ukraine who may be watching this talk. Yesterday, the candidate met with representatives of our parliamentary group, and on the basis of this meeting today at the morning meeting of the group, it was decided to support her candidacy as Minister of Social Policy. What would you like to say? Today, a candidate from the Supreme Council stands out for a rather short term, but a rather meaningful and ambitious speech about what the Ministry is planning to do. In all that Mrs. Oksana said, there is a very serious problem. We have only a growing budget deficit, and we realize that even those changes to the budget that have been adopted at one of the previous meetings of the Supreme Council will be very difficult to implement. We insist that the format of government with the Supreme Council really be changed. We insist that the government should return "the time of the government" to Parliament. We insist that there should be a dialogue between the government and the deputies, because, starting on February 24, the format of the work of the Supreme Council changed: there is no majority and no opposition, there is a Supreme Council that makes balanced decisions and is responsible for these decisions. And these decisions about social policy, we understand that they will be unforgivable and perhaps unpopular. We insist that there should be a dialogue with the deputies about how to make it the least possible for our citizens to feel a blow from it. Our deputy faction, for its part, tells us that we will actively and constructively support the government and are ready to work together. We wish you a successful candidate in your new position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u21	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues, dear candidate! Ukraine has defined membership in the European Union as our key priority. So European political practice requires not only the presentation of the future minister but also the report of the previous minister. European practice requires respect for the government not only during the presentation but also during the release, because it was the Prime Minister of Ukraine who presented all the previous ministers here and then disappeared during their resignation. We talked about this yesterday with the distinguished Prime Minister, and we demand that all personnel assignments take place under European political culture. As for the candidate for the post of Ministry. Our faction also met with your candidate. Indeed, social policy and economics are the two key challenges facing today's government, and these are the most complex challenges, and our faction is ready to help resolve these issues by voting for all the bills that will support social policy that will work for our citizens. Indeed, we want to hear a clear policy about our refugees, temporary displaced persons and Ukrainians, 6 million of whom are now being forced abroad. How are we going to get them back? The role of the Ministry of Social Policy with the Ministry of Health, with the Ministry of Education, will be very important. It is very important to move Ukraine from a country of benefits to a country of services, and we must do this reform together. Indeed, the key issue remains that of helping our respected soldiers who were wounded by a Russian invader. And this rehabilitation policy has to be more responsive and meet NATO standards. We called on the minister to unlock the issue of adoption of children because wartime may take as long as it is blocked today, thousands of Ukrainian children who have lost their parents are left without the possibility of finding a new family. So, Your Honor, Mrs. Oksana, we urge you to be one of the priorities for unlocking the issue of adoption. Thousands of Ukrainian families today want to take care of a Ukrainian child. Well, and it'll be very European if the "Council" channel today similarly shows these debates on the social issue, and not that disgraceful censorship will be included. We also want to see pay policies, social benefits for the Russian occupation. Because, in fact, today there are a lot of funds that are being paid to someone, not paid to someone, there is a certain horde.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u22	Please, National Deputy Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich, "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, after that, we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats, and I invite Sergio Mikolaiovich Evtushka. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Ladies and gentlemen, after this speech, we shall proceed to the vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u23	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, thank you to Sergio Eutuska for her word. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, the social policy of the state depends not only on the work of one ministry. Social policy depends on the concerted professional work of the entire Cabinet of Ministers and the laws that are passed in this session hall. And it has become a bad practice when ministers, when they leave office, do not report to Parliament, perhaps not so clearly passing their release. If Marina Lazebna were on this rostrum, I think she would have something to say, because she represented not only herself as a minister leaving her post, but a multi-million-dollar community of social workers who are worthy of respect because they work with people in places today. It will not be easy for the new minister because she had experience in government and administrative work. But I would like, Mrs. Oksano, to wish you all the positive things that were done in the previous team, taken for the future and multiplied. There are serious challenges to you, as before the entire government, especially the pension reform. Those pensions, which are now minimal, do not respond to any criticism, to which, on that pension, it is impossible to live. And we hope that you will finally be the initiator of the Cabinet of Ministers' decision on the consumer basket that forms all social benefits, including pension benefits. We're waiting for you, or we're going to give you another choice, which is the basis for the minimum of living in the state. We're also going to ask you to be decent in representing the social sphere, because today there's a difference, depending on the community that can pay a decent wage to social workers. Do not allow the services, the benefits guaranteed by the Constitution, to drop at the level of the territorial community and to seek funds. Decentralisation is primarily the transfer of powers with financial resources, it's a very important thing. And many challenges are before you and before the government, we want you to go through them with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, have put to the vote the proposal to appoint Žolnovich Oksana Ivanovna as Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:41:26]] For 282 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Show the factions, please. I'm asking the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we've made. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment before his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, take an oath. Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ivanovna Žolnović, is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u25	I, Žolnovich Oksana Ivanovna, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Congratulations. Congratulations on your entry into office. Congratulations. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed on a day’s schedule. We're about to start with questions that don't need to be discussed, we're going to vote on them. Then we will vote on two more questions that need to be discussed. After that, we will move on to one human resources issue: discharge from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. After that, we'll announce a 30-minute recess for the committee to pass. I ask you not to depart, because after 30 minutes, we will move on to another human resources issue: to grant permission to release the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine. And then we're going to vote on a whole series of other legislation that we have. It's a brief order of the day. Therefore, I ask that you keep the meeting in this room and come in accordance with the Rules at the right time after we have a recess. As we move on to the issues that we have agreed on at the Conciliation Council, which will not need to be discussed in this room. I would like to ask the people's deputies to take their seats, and I will begin with the draft Order establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of monitoring the receipt and use of international material and technical assistance during the war (registration number 7563). I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of receiving monitoring and. [[B in m in s a l in]] Aah! Any comments from the committee? Please, then, give me a few minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Aah! I got it. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Then I'm going to take this as a whole, taking into account the Committee's observations and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Interim Regulation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'll give the committee's head a few minutes, he'll say what kind of remarks, and we'll vote as it is. Please, I give the floor to the head of the committee of Calchenk Sergey Vitaliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u27	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Our committee considered the draft decree yesterday at its meeting (registration 7563) and recommended that the Supreme Council consider it in accordance with article 138 of the Rules, taking into account the comments of the committee in its conclusions, and determine how to vote. These remarks relate primarily to the alphabetical order of the names of the national MPs, as well as the replacement of the word "work" with "activity" and a few small editorial details. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u28	I think it's a great point to take them into account. Dear colleagues, did you think they put something in there, yes, as you always think? Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Ordinance establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of monitoring the receipt and use of international material and technical assistance during the state of war (registration number 7563). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:47:04]] For 314 Decision taken. Next up, colleagues. 7561. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation on financial security for the activities of Ukrainian national deputies (registration number 7561). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:47:48]] For 308. Decision taken. Next. 7349. Dear colleagues, here are two votes: to include and send immediately for re-reading, as we agreed. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda of the day a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the fight against terrorism (registration number 7349). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:48:34]] For 275 Decision taken. And I'm proposing that a committee be sent to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the fight against terrorism (registration number 7349). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:49:08]] For 275 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next up, colleagues. 7566 is a draft Decree on certain issues of forced alienation under the legal regime of martial law. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decree on Certain Questions of Forced Disqualification under the Legal regime of the State of War (registration number 7566). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:50:05]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we're going to have two bills, these are the second readings. We talked to faction leaders and groups. No one is going to insist on the amendments, so I'm going to put them on the table right now. 4323 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of measures of forced feeding to convicted persons and persons in custody. I propose, in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of measures of forced feeding to convicts and detainees (registration No. 4323). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:51:15]] For 301 Ladies and gentlemen, please come to Helen Kostovny with a button that doesn't work. Somebody come along, take care of it. The next question is 4324. This is also a second reading. We made a deal with our colleagues, too, and they won't make any adjustments. So I immediately propose, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the application to prisoners and persons who are being held in custody of forced hunger. [[B in m in s a l in]] One more time, one more second. I propose, in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the application of measures of forced feeding to convicted persons and persons in custody (registration No. 4324). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:52:48]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we'll still have two bills in the first reading with discussion. It's 7550 and we're up from the bottom, Alexander Sergiyovich, 7163. And then we move on to the staff issue of discharge from the post of Head of the Security Service, and then we announce a recess so that the committee can come together and make a decision on the second human resources issue. So, your honors, let's move on to question 7550, this is the President's immediate bill. This is a draft law establishing legal and social guarantees for citizens of the Republic of Poland who are present in Ukraine. I'm making an offer. Review of the simplified procedure. I'm asking you to consider this with a reduced procedure, 7550. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:54:19]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mikola Stanislavovich Tocitsky. Please, Mikola Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Since the first day of Russia’s full - scale invasion, friendly Poland has been an example of providing assistance to Ukraine and Ukraine. One aid measure was the temporary shelter of over 3.5 million Ukrainians who had to move to Poland because of the aggression of the Russian Federation. On March 12, a law was passed in Poland to assist Ukrainian citizens in the face of armed conflict in the territory of our country. The law regulates the key issues of being in Poland with our fellow countrymen, sets up aid tools, provides for legalization mechanisms for the housing, employment, education, medical care and social security of Ukrainians. We received the same rights in Poland that Poles have on their home land. It was an unprecedented decision. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky called the adoption by Poland of the law a great step, a great gesture of great soul, for which only great friends of Ukraine are capable. During a joint meeting with the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Dodo, the head of the Ukrainian State here in the Supreme Council, on 22 May, expressed his gratitude to the Polish Seima for adopting the law. This law will not remain unilateral, the President has instructed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to develop a mirror law. This law was passed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u30	Thank you. Thank you, Mikola Stanislavovich. I invite you to the report of the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Maksima Mikolaiovich Tkachenka. Maxim Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u31	Good afternoon, colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in the Donetsk, Luhansk Region and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the City of Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 19 July 22, Protocol No.62, reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine on the establishment of legal and social guarantees for citizens of the Republic of Poland who reside in Ukraine (Registration No. 7550) (since 11.07.2022), submitted by the President of Ukraine. The bill was drafted in response to the adoption on March 12nd, 22nd, of the Law of the Republic of Poland to assist Ukrainian citizens in the context of armed conflict in the country. The aim of the bill is to improve the living conditions of citizens of the Republic of Poland, to establish new legal and social guarantees for citizens of the Republic of Poland who are in Ukraine. The bill provides for citizens of the Republic of Poland and members of their families – marriages, children (independent of nationality) who have arrived in Ukraine from the Republic of Poland, legal residence in Ukraine within 18 months of the entry into force of this law. The citizens of the Republic of Poland who are legally present in Ukraine will be entitled to employment in Ukraine, to economic activity in Ukraine, to education in Ukraine, to medical care in Ukraine under the same conditions as Ukrainian citizens, and to separate social benefits. During the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on the establishment of legal and social guarantees for citizens of the Republic of Poland to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please proceed to the discussion of this bill. Please sign up: two in, two in, against who wants to speak. The word is given to Solomia Anatolyevna Bobrovsky, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u33	I give you my word to Pippi Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u34	Natalia Romanovna Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u35	Dear Ukrainians, dear Polish brothers and sisters, of course this bill is primarily about yours and our support, about the understanding that changed these days. About the misunderstandings that we've had and gone into the background, and now we understand how close we are before we were, that we're the only European family. And this bill is about the gratitude you gave us on this most difficult day of our lives. Six million Ukrainians have gone through Poland, there are now three and a half million, for Poland, which is a population of about forty million -- that is a large number of people. And whoever was there saw how many Ukrainians are now in Poland, we thank you for the support and acceptance. But in order for this bill to work, it needs to be redrafted and changed to other laws that are profiled. If there is no change, this bill will not work properly. So I urge the authors and the relevant ministries to work out and make this statement that we are making this bill a reality. Therefore, for your freedom and our freedom, for our common European future and for the fall and surrender of the last empire of evil. Thank you, brothers and sisters of Poles.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u36	Yes, thank you, thank you. The word is given to Gregory Mikhailovich Nemiri by the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Michael Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u38	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u39	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we do not stop thanking the great brotherly Polish people for the help that the Ukrainians have experienced since the first days of the large-scale war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. It was then that millions of Ukrainians received support and assistance in the territory of the Republic of Poland. On March 12, the President of Poland, Andrzej Duda, signed the Law on Assistance to Ukrainians. This bill that we are considering today is very symbolic and necessary, but in our opinion it is too late. This bill gives us the right to citizens of Poland who are or wish to reside in Ukraine, to mirror the advantages and benefits given to Ukrainians who are now present and present in Poland. It's also the right to open a business, it's the right to stay in Ukraine, so it's a teaching and teaching facility that wants to work in Ukrainian universities. Medical personnel who are willing to provide practical medical care in Ukraine. This, once again, is very symbolic and important for the Polish brothers, the Polish authorities, and the Polish citizens to feel that Ukrainians can be grateful. And we thank you once again for the fact that today more than 3 million Ukrainians live, work, and benefit in Poland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u40	Thank you, Mikhailovich. The word is given to Paul Andryovich Bakunc, the "Trust" group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head! Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainian people, dear Polish people! The idea of giving our good neighbors, our old lawyers in the European Union, the citizens of the Republic of Poland who are in Ukraine, a special status, is clearly an important step in the modern historical relations of two friendly neighbouring peoples. This is a mirroring decision that our Ukrainian citizens in the Republic of Poland have made in connection with the war, and there are over 3 million people. Of course, these friendly relationships occurred long before the invader’s missiles began to fly in the Ukrainian sky. These friendly relations have not only emerged at the level of Heads of State, Parliaments, at the level of local communities such as Kolbud, Wengogzevo, Jaroslav, Lubachev and hundreds of others, at the level of enterprises such as the Polish company Snow Ukraine, which has been a socially responsible business in Ukraine for more than 10 years. Like at the level of public organizations like Marcin Petrovsky, like priests, who help our Ukrainians there, in the Republic of Poland. And of course, with great respect to the neighbouring people, with whom we have been friendly for many years, and with a low tendency to help us at this particular time, we are adopting this law on the special status of citizens of the Republic of Poland in Ukraine, in order to slightly improve their business opportunities, employment, education and life in our territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u42	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna. I understand he's handing it over to Mr. Mikola Knieżick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u43	Colleagues, well, it's a really mirroring law that repeats the benefits and the help that Poles give to Ukrainians. We are truly grateful to both the President of Poland and the government and to the representatives of all political parties, authorities, opposition and society for the support of the Ukrainians. I would also like to thank the Government and the President of Ukraine for introducing this law, which is extremely important and promising for us. But I would like to draw your attention, Mr. Mikolo Tochitsky. Mr. Mikolo Tochitsky! Mr. Mikolo Tochitsky, one minute, please. I want to pay your attention and, Your Honor, yours. There is one inadequacy here, because this law states that Polish citizens have the right to stay with us 18 months from the date of entry into force of this law. That is, one who will arrive in six months will be able to do so for 12 months or less. For example, doctors receive benefits for 18 months. I don't want to go to second reading, because it's a really important law. Make a technical legal order and delete those words: "from the day of entry into force of this law." Because the law is now colossal, it's better to take it now or take it out for a second reading. Please consult with the Head of the Supreme Council and make your decision. Otherwise it won't work. Thank you. In general, let's fix this right now and support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we agreed that this would be the basis and it would be time for work. So there are some other things that we have to clean up between the first and the second. We agreed. Dear colleagues, would anyone else like to step out of this bill? He doesn't want to. We can vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Honorary colleagues, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with article 116, part one, of the draft Law on the establishment of legal and social guarantees for citizens of the Republic of Poland who are present in the territory of Ukraine (registration number 7550). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:09:22]] For 321 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing a cut in half of the time to make proposals, amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7550. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:09:51]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've further agreed on another draft in the first reading, and then we'll move on to the personnel issue. Then we'll announce a break for the decision-making process. And I'm going to ask you not to be late after the break, because let's just get right to the point. Dear colleagues, Bill 7163 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement and other Ukrainian laws on the conduct of defence and public procurement during the legal regime of the state of war. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:10:49]] For 282 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:11:11]] For 271 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u45	My colleagues, congratulations! Well, I don't think we should spend too much time describing the situation we're all in since February. And no European country has, in principle, faced similar issues in terms of regulation of purchases in active combat in its territory at the present stage of its existence. So it is clear that neither European nor Ukrainian legislation contains any algorithms for buying during wartime. And according to our legislation on public procurement and on defence of procurement, if that doesn't sound funny, they're also obviously time-consuming and they don't directly regulate the rules of conduct in the field of procurement during wartime. On February 28, Kabmin passed a decree of 169, and on March 2, 185, he quickly intervened in the area of procurement and ensured the operation of this area in new military realities. However, there was a purely legal conflict between the stated decisions of the government and the procurement laws. And in fact, this Bill 7163 is trying to remove this coalition, and he's proposing to make a number of changes to the legislation by determining that for the period of the legal regime of the state of war, I'm stressing this. The specificities of defence and public procurement are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, indicating the competence of, of course, contracts and contracts that have been made prior to the adoption of this law. Therefore, the Committee recommended that the Supreme Council take the first reading as a basis for its consideration by cutting the deadline for amendments and proposals by half. And if the faction has a note and a warning, then it's going to go back to the second reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u46	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this bill. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, a faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u47	Please pass it on to Jaroslav Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u48	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u49	That's a rare case where we even support exceptions to the ProZorro Act. Indeed, an important initiative, it brings the fact into line with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. One way or another, we really need to adapt procurement to military needs, including so that there is no public information about certain purchases. That's why we're going to support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u50	Thank you. The word is given to Daniel Aleksandrovitch Getmantsev, "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u51	Thank you. Please pass the word to Natalusi Dmitry Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u52	Dmitri Andriovich Nataluha.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u53	Thank you, colleagues, and thank you, Daniel Alexanderovich. What I wanted to say was that we had a long enough time to discuss in general how to restrict any access to public information regarding procurement procedures for suppliers, even for participants, in order to secure them. But there were also different comments and warnings that restrictions on such access could lead to certain corrupt risks and so on and so forth. So one of the proposed solutions is actually to transfer it to the Cabinet of Ministers and to define it as a responsible collective body for the implementation of this policy. But if, in principle, a second reading finds understanding about protecting information by suppliers who participate in public procurement. I think we can also figure that out at the level of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u54	Thank you. Please give Nina Petrovni Jujanini, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u56	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u57	Mr. Golovo, my fellow Members, this bill is a case where you want to sign under every word of the GNEU. The purpose of the bill is certainly understandable and correct, and emotion is likely to be the same. But the very essence of the proposed changes is both shortsighted and disinherited. This is the opinion of many colleagues even during the discussion that takes place in the hall. Why? The provisions of the bill are not temporary in nature, and these changes are made to the law in effect irrevocably until another law is passed. And then the law, the other law, has to be repealed. It's a very bad signal, and it's a huge scale for transparent purchases that have been made over the years and supported by the European vector of our country. What would it be advisable to do? Temporaryly, at the time of the war, change the mechanism of purchasing individual categories of goods and jobs in such a way that they happen as quickly and as efficiently as possible. But what's important is that it's transparent in terms of spending government funds. That's the welcome format. While in the proposed project, unfortunately, there is a high probability of corruption during the war period. In view of the above, our faction is not prepared to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u59	Thank you, Mr. Head. With all the complexity of the present, the proper powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine can be entrusted solely to the period of military activity. Thank you. Please proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u60	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, no one wants to speak anymore, so please move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Ready? I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement and other Ukrainian laws on the conduct of defence and public procurement during the legal regime of the state of war (registration No. 7163). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:03]] For 260 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline and the amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:30]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the personnel issue of discharge from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Honourable National Deputies in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of the President of Ukraine as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. On July 18, 2022, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, pursuant to article 106, paragraph 14, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the application for the release of Bakanov John Hennadiovich from his post as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, a proposal is made to deal with this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:20:36]] For 245 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The National Deputy of Ukraine, President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to the report. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, as noted by the Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk, in accordance with paragraph 12. Article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine is under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint and release from office the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service at the request of the President of Ukraine. Paragraph 14 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine refers to the introduction of the appointment and discharge of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The President of Ukraine, in full compliance with his constitutional powers, took advantage of these constitutional provisions, which I pointed out yesterday, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for discharge from office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as Head of the Security Service of Mr. Bakanov. Requesting to support this motion by the President, to vote in favour of Mr. Bakanov's release from office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u62	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Dear national deputies, the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, Alexander Mikhailovich. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u63	Hello, fellows! Following the commission of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on July 19, 2022, the President of Ukraine discussed a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Bakanov Ivan Hennadiyovich from office of the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service (registration number 7564) (July 18, 2022). As a result of the discussion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Supreme Council Decision on the release of Bakanov Ivan Hennadijovich from office of the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service (registration number 7564) submitted by the President of Ukraine be incorporated into the agenda of the 7th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 9 summons, and that the outcome of the discussion should be taken into account by a decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u64	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in favour, two in favor. The word is given by Sauras's Maxim Vitaliovic faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u66	Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u67	That's what happens: Bakanov used to catch the devils, and today Bakanov himself has become the devil. But not only did he become the devil, but he also developed a damn TV show, as we can see. Because when. I quote the President, if you remember, the quote of the High Commander. So, in this case, I just want to remind you that in 2020, in October, the Order on the appointment of Kulinic as Head of the Department of BSS was signed. This Kulinich, he was no random figure, and for 15 years he hasn't done anything in the B.S.U. But when he was appointed, he had previously been involved in certain matters at Zelensky’s election headquarters in 2019 and, in particular, in attacks against political opponents. And what the U.S.S.A. has been doing lately, including during the war, it has not fought its enemies as much as the persecution of political opponents and, in particular, the leader of European Solidarity, Dustenka has been subjected to constant military counter-intelligence. When we saw the arrest of the Russian godmother who was arrested, we were actually forced to brand political opponents, destroying political unity. Yes, today is the time to release Bakanova, but the question is, will the new Head of the U.S.S.A. be working for Ukraine, or will he be working for the President's Office? If he works for the President's Office, that's treason. Because today we have to unite all around Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u68	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pipi Natalia Romanovni, a faction of the Voice. Guys, don't pull, I give her my word, she gives you this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u69	Rachmanin Sergio, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, Rachmanin Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u71	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there will be any people in this room who don't have any questions for the Ukrainian Security Service, for their actions before the war and during the war, especially for those departments, and for the services that were directly involved in counterintelligence. Sadly, though, we have not received the answers to these questions. And I understand that we're not going to get it because Ivan Hennadiovich Bakanov didn't agree to give it to us. Not in closed session of the profile committee, nor in front of the Supreme Council, which, I remind you, releases him as he appoints. And so it's really not up to who's going to be elected his successor, who's going to be the next Head of the Bureau, that these questions are going to go unanswered. And unfortunately, I suspect new questions will arise. And that's why such a procedure is devoid of logic, just like any logic that is devoid of were the actions of certain security officials. And fortunately, thanking the Ukrainian people and God, we don't have a lot of collaborators, but a lot of those who cooperated with the enemy were asked: in the public, in the electorate, in the journalists, but for some reason, there were no such issues. And this again requires analysis and reporting, as it needs analysis and reporting, on why church representatives of a particular church felt, more specifically, like enemy agents, rather than people who were excluded from the state, not like shepherds or patriots. And all of these questions would be very much appreciated to ask certain leaders and, above all, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. So given that there will be no explanation for the Head of the Board's report, the Voice faction will not vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u72	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Paulisz Pavel Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Marianne Besogly.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u74	Please, Mariana Bezugla.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u75	Colleagues, I'm about to point out that over the years there have been success stories in the Ukrainian Security Service, particularly the information struggle and the struggle against Russian propaganda and Russian propaganda in general. You know what worked and how it worked, and it really contributed to the immediate improvement of the security environment in the form of preparation for full-scale aggression. Nevertheless, however, there are many problems. And these problems, particularly with directly Russian agents, both in the Ukrainian Security Service and in general in our country, they got worse, of course, when Russia tried to make the most of the aggression and capture us. So these problems are now being studied, and we need to draw conclusions. So you can't talk about what wasn't directly effective work, it was, it is and it's intensifying. In particular, now, and the restructuring in the Ukrainian Security Service, which is being done, is just to increase the counter-intelligence direction, and we see results. But we have to move forward. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support this decision, and with the understanding that, really, if we don't get an answer, and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service really didn't report to the committee, we need to carry out, intensify our surveillance further and have these reports and improve legislation. The reform of the BAF is now under way. It's going to be changed, but it's going to be more and more, because it's the security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u76	Thank you. The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Dearly beloved factions or representatives of those factions who did not speak, will you take the floor, or can we move on to a decision? Then Nestor Ivanovich. Who? "The Fatherland" will be there? No, it won't. Then, after Nestor Ivanovich, we move on to making a decision. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, today is a very stressful and responsible order of the day. Please proceed to the consideration of the matter in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u78	Nestor Ivanovich, we are doing this at this very time, Nestor Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. We've already considered essentially, we're going to make a decision. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, have put to the vote for adoption in the entire draft Decree (Registration number 7564) on the release of Bakanov John Hennadiovich from his post as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:32:20]] For 265 Decision taken. You're quite the wizard, you know. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, Alexander Sergiyovich, read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u79	The break at the request of two MPs is "People's Servants" and "Trusts" for half an hour, a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u80	Now, here's a question. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u81	A break without a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u82	There's no replacement for the show. Sergey Costinovich, you're starting now, and we're going. Dear colleagues, we're meeting in the hall at 12:30 straight. 12:30!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u83	As the chairman, we take another break. Well, how?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u84	See: Honorable colleagues, 30 minutes -- factions, 30 minutes -- chairman. What questions are there? There's no justice? So we're going to take it this way: 12:30 straight back in the hall and we're going to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over. We're continuing our meeting. People's deputies please take their seats. We are moving on to a human resources issue, which is the issue of consent to the discharge of the Attorney General. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 85 and 131 with badge 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant exemption from office as President of Ukraine as Attorney General. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 11, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant consent for the release of Venedic Irina Valentinovna from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies please vote, summary procedure. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:46]] For 230 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies! Dear Sir, your head! Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 25 of the first part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the issue of granting permission to appoint and granting the office of President of Ukraine to the Attorney General of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 11, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine appoints and releases the Attorney General of Ukraine under the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In full conformity with his constitutional authority, the President of Ukraine today submitted a motion for discharge from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, Venedict Irina Valentinovna. Request to support this submission by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the General Prosecutor Irina Valentinovna Venedictova is invited to attend. In five minutes, Irina Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u88	Dear friends, good afternoon! Yes, today we have such a time and perhaps at such times we need to make serious decisions. Now the war and I want to say I'm proud of the prosecutorial system that I'm leaving. I very much ask you all to see that this system is stable after this presidential reform that you have carried out, and we have completed it unprecedentedly, over the course of two years, re-testing and reloading the system, this system has become capable and has shown results. This system was prepared for war, and we kept as much as we could. So this stable rod needs to be kept. As far as our priorities are concerned. You know, the job that applied to the security, the state betrayal, the diversans, the collaborators -- it was ours that was the same priority. And I went out there almost every two days, and I reported to the public on the phone. What's with the D.A.? Of the 15,000 people, we have five prosecutors left to work as collaborators and three civil servants, which is 0.03 percent of the employees. And I think it's a huge credit to the reformed prosecutor's system. First things first. Directly these are war crimes, and you have to watch and see how all these bad guys who have raped, murdered, actually shot at civilian infrastructure and where we have killed children to be held accountable. Today, we have done everything we can to make this happen. We have mobile groups working in cities, from different experts, we have a working methodology. So it's very important to move these directions. Next. You see, corruption is a priority for the state. Today, I am pleased to say that the commission approved the head of the SAP. So we have two enemies. The great enemy is the Russian Federation, which is truly unforgivable to us on all fronts: both military and legal (i emphasise once again, we need to work) on economics. That's why it's all gonna be in your hands right now, including you. Keep an eye on it. And the second is internal processes in the state. You have to get as much stability as you can in the state, protect the citizens who are now working in the back, protect the business. Real action, moving forward in all directions, cleaning up everywhere. Self-cleaning of all systems is the main thing. The Public Prosecutor's Office has initiated a process of involvement with the Supreme Council of Justice. We opened the competition. So for today, please take a look at what is going on, and stick to the rule of law. I think it's today. I was asked on a committee, I want to take that question down. Did the President have to make such a submission? Yes, the President had the right to make that decision. So I think today soldiers in the trench shouldn't think about power and what's going on in power. We should be the only ones we've ever been. And once again, our people are killing, both military and civilian, and children for a chance for future generations. And this is our joint task with you so that this chance will not be lost and the time of victory will come as soon as possible. Thank you very much. I'm ready for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u89	Thank you. Irina Valentino, no questions asked, we have a reduced procedure. And we thank you, thank you for your work and your luck. Ladies and gentlemen, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of Sergei Konstantinovich Ionushas is invited to report. Sergey Costinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u90	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As a result of a meeting of the Committee on Law Enforcement, the Committee considered a draft by the President of the Supreme Council order to grant a discharge by the President of Ukraine of the Venedic Irina Valentinovna from the post of Attorney-General (Registration No. 7567) and proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide how to vote in favour of granting approval for the release of Venedict Irina Valentinovna from the post of Attorney-General. Dear colleagues, you've heard Irina Valentinovna, her state position, so I think it's important to note that the committee has supported this decision, please support it in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u91	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the representatives of the MP factions and groups to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please, two in favor, two in favor, of course, of your respectable colleagues. The word is given to Michael Leontievich Bondaru, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". I understand that, Arthur Volodymyrovich, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u92	Yes. Please give it to Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the position of European Solidarity – Ukraine must be a member of the European Union. The association agreement, the visa-free zone, the free trade zone, the candidate status, but the key on our path is the Copenhagen criteria, it's democracy, the rule of law, freedom of speech, the protection of human rights. But everyone knows that democracy is first of all procedures, and the rule of law is first of all respect for the Constitution. Instead, what do we see now? Continued usurpation of power by the President's Office and Lieutenant Yanukovich, Mr. Tatar. I am not a proponent of Mrs. Venedict at all, and I do not represent the political power that assigned her. But first unconstitutional exclusion, today unconstitutional submission. The Constitution clearly states that early discharge from the office of Attorney General is carried out solely in cases and on the grounds laid down by this Constitution and by law. There are three reasons: failure to pay alimony, perhaps not paying; the decision of the IDP, it is not available, and there is no claim, either. There is no basis for liberation. 150 people's deputies' signatures are a separate procedure. They have to go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not to the President. It's also an illegal story. And the key question is, why do you do this? The first is to continue and fully usurp all power in the President's Office. Also, in my opinion, to destroy the legitimacy of the competition and the appointment of the head of the SAP. Also to strengthen the pro-Russian block in a force vertical. I think everyone's wondering who they want to assign to this office in the President's office. And the Supreme Council is finally being humiliated again. Many of you remember what I said before the invasion, everything came true. My sincere advice is not to support this usurpation of power by the President's Office, because the consequences may be very, very bad. My colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u95	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Jonah.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u97	Sergei Konstantinovich Ionushas.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we have just heard from our colleague Arthur Gerasimov of the EC about the lack of authority or authority. I would like to quote the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that the Prosecutor's Office in Ukraine is headed by the Attorney-General, who is appointed and dismissed by the Supreme Council President of Ukraine. Furthermore, Article 85, paragraph 25, of the Constitution of the Supreme Council includes the granting of an appointment and discharge from office as President of Ukraine of the Attorney-General. There is also the Ukrainian Procurator's Act of Profile, according to part three of article 63, which states that the President has the right to submit to the Supreme Council for the discharge of the Attorney-General. Therefore, there is a legitimate basis for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u99	Thank you. I'm sorry, Arthur Volodymyrovich, it was an address, not an insult to you. Arthur. Arthur Volodymyrovich, let me retransmit. If you want to, read the law. Everybody wants to, everybody reads, I think. [[B in m in s a l in]] How can you approach a person if you don’t mention his name, his name, or his father? I highly recommend to all who are teaching, look at the Rules, and it says that if it offends a person. If you're offended by your father's name and address?Oh, my God! I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich faction "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u100	In his time, the Attorney General of Peru Hugo Chávez, who was invited to work by President Fuchimore, said: "I will not be a soldier of the President. I'll do what the law requires." And so it's very sad that there was no analysis of how independent the prosecutor's office was. Now you and I have witnessed that the prosecution has become even more dependent when in fact an illegal procedure is justified by one of the country's main lawyers, the Attorney General. In fact, while continuing the discussion of colleagues, there is a comprehensive list in the Procurator's Act: the Attorney-General will be released from office as President of Ukraine with the consent of the Supreme Council in connection with the submission of applications for permanent suspension of powers. She's gone. Second: on the basis of the submission of the relevant authority that conducts disciplinary action or the Supreme Council of Justice, there is no such thing. In case of alimony debt. In case of mistrust of the Supreme Council, 150 votes were cast. But in fact, a comprehensive list of circumstances. There's no reason. Friends, if you're a Parliament, don't support a violation of the law. Vote won't vote for resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u101	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please, the "Platform for Life" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u102	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the President of Ukraine has identified himself from this issue, and I would like to remind you that there is a military situation in Ukraine today. In view of all these circumstances, I ask you to put the matter to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, have we finished our discussion? Finished the discussion? Let's see as the hall gathers, 30 seconds Arthur Volodymyrovich, because they mentioned his last name, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. And I'm asking the next speakers not to use the individualizing signs of Ukrainian national MPs. You could say, the previous reporter, you could say, this one, if you have a low level of culture, the denominators are used. But please don't use it. Because we are in unnecessary conflict. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please don't consider this an insult.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, the committee's decision to judge the hall, he didn't support it, he said to the court. And secondly, I quote the Constitution: " The term of office of the Attorney General is six years. The same person cannot hold the position of Henprocuror for two consecutive periods. Timely discharge from the post of Attorney General shall take place exclusively in cases and on the grounds laid down by this Constitution and by law." Period. Three reasons: IDP, statement of my own desire, and alimony. Well, maybe she didn't pay alimony, but as far as I know, she's not divorced, how could she pay and to whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. In accordance with article 85, part three, paragraph 25, of the first article, p. 131. The Constitutions of Ukraine, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (registration number 7567) on the granting of the approval by the President of Ukraine of the Venedic Irina of Valentinovna of the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:50]] For 264 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Let's move on. We next have question 5371 – this is a draft Act amending some legislative acts to simplify the regulation of employment in small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities (5371). Dear colleagues, I invite Galina Mikolayevna, second reading. There'll be a copy of "Paternity," I understand if there'll be a replacement on. And there'll be some papers from colleagues on Voice. Five amendments from Voice and Fatherland. Is he going to take over for the show, Mikhail Mikhailovich? With a replacement for the performance. First the Voice, right? Julia Klimenko, please. Who's it gonna be? Rustling - do I understand? You call all of these amendments immediately, if you can, which you'll put to see if everything is taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u106	Dear Head, I have nine amendments. I'll have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u107	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u108	16th, 24th, 46th, 53rd, 55th, 93rd, 142nd, 172nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u109	Please give me 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u110	Thank you very much. I want first of all to support the authors of the law, and finally we start to break this communist ice in our working relationship. And I'd like to go maybe far. But this is a very fundamental amendment one is -- number 55, to which I'm going to call everyone. The first thing that our Constitution says in article 1 is that we are a social country, that is, a human being is the goal of our nation, a human being is our goal. And it's a normal thing when we put this person's protection against various institutions, including the state, because they have a huge legal apparatus, a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and this person needs to be protected. That's why we have this notion of guilt in our relationship with a person. In Communist times, when the employer was a state, it was normal. And our labor legislation is built in this direction. But, oh, wonder! – today, it turns out, the employer can be a different person, and this person must also be protected, also protected by the Constitution. And, oh, the miracle! – I'll tell you that bourgeois is also human. Moreover, this bourgeois may be Ukrainian. Unfortunately, today, most of these bourgeois are Poles and Germans who hire our employees in countries, but nevertheless, we want this employer to be Ukrainian. And in this case, this amendment (this is about 55 amendments) the good moments of the chapter, which are being incorporated into our labor legislation, extend to all of us, to all of the working relationships. We have, unfortunately, 52 thousand dollars in wages there. And please tell me, are there many such workers in Ukraine? And the second thing is, it's the number of employees of 250 people in one company. And we were told at a meeting with EBA right now that we were going to divide 250 people into enterprises by 250 people in the future? This is what we went through when the tax system was simplified, up to 50 people in one enterprise. I would like to point out that the person who hires employees also needs to be protected and placed on a level playing field with the employee. This means that the arrangement is between them, and they make their relationship on the basis of an agreement. And also Amendment 142, which says that we can't hire a person on such contractual terms at night. Let the people deal with each other. Let's not get carried away by our nationals in a delicate work relationship. I will ask 55 and 142 amendments to the vote, and this fundamentally changes the labour legislation of Ukraine. Thank you, authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich, can we not put them to the vote: you took the floor and move on? Do you want to hear the answer? And then we move on. Please, Galina Mikolayevna, one minute to respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u112	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav, for asking. But it seems to me that the Supreme Council does not support this in the same way that the committee did not support it. We had Bill 5388, which distributed similar conditions to the entire economy, but they didn't pass the hall. Therefore, in order to preserve this bill and Ukraine there was a new regime, a special regime, the committee proposes not to accept these amendments. But thank you for your initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, we agreed: 3 minutes in lieu of our amendments is taken by Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, 5 minutes in – National Deputy Volinec Mikola Jakovic, yes. Let's start with Volinz, five minutes, then Mikhailovich, three minutes, and then we go to the vote. So, honourable colleagues, in fact, in 7-8 minutes, we're voting. Please, National Deputy Volinec, then National Deputy Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I am the head of the Confederation of Free Trade Unions at the national level, and I am a signatory to the General Agreement. I'm also vice president of the International Trade Union Confederation. I want to say that the world community, the world's law-enforcement organizations can't in any way accept this bill as one that can make progress in changing labour legislation. On the contrary, three more weeks ago, when I visited the European Parliament in Brussels, the European Commission, the Council of Europe, I was able to communicate with MEPs, with the European Commissioner, with representatives of the Council of Europe. They are all concerned, excited that this bill is being tabled by Parliament. And no one can understand why, for what purpose, and in whose interests. That's the first one. The other one. In wartime, when people who are employed voluntarily go to protect the country. It's contempt and disrespect for them, it's disrespect for 18 million citizens of working age in Ukraine and for future generations. Because changing labour legislation will be extremely difficult. And I've heard that for compromise today, it's proposed that we extend this bill to propose an order that it will operate for a period of military condition plus three months. Who can say how long the war will continue, and how long will war continue? How long will the state of war continue? It's manipulation again, it's deception. But this is a very unpleasant mine in the sense that this bill is supposed to work for workers and businesses (institutions) where the population of up to 250 people. So there's a mechanism, so that a large enterprise, in a thousand employees, this group can be divided into four parts, up to 250, and they'll be called small businesses, outsourcings, and so on. And so these groups will be derived from the Labour Code, under the Constitution, under the Ukrainian Integration Treaty into the European Union. What, then, about the directives of the European Union that Ukraine has undertaken to implement? And that's why the Parliamentary Committee on European Integration made its position very clear. This is also the conclusion of experts and all law - enforcement organizations. But that is not what Parliament and the majority are paying attention to today. I went to one of the coauthors of this bill. And he said, "How did you become a co-author?" The man said honestly and frankly, I was offered no opportunity to get to know him, but I liked the title of the bill. And here too, Galino Mikolayevno, there's manipulation because the title of the bill and the content don't match each other. Now here's the next one. Look, Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, I'm addressing you and the Prime Minister. You have received three successive petitions from world leaders that this bill does not meet international standards, standards, contradicts Ukraine's intention to integrate into European space, become a member of the European Union. But I don't understand why the state's leadership is refusing. All intelligent, all literate, all authorized, but why this attitude, why this attitude? Now, look, the content of the bill is one thing -- to translate hired workers into an individual form of relationship between an employee and an employer. A hired worker will not be able to have a level playing field with the employer. The employer will offer him a lower salary, another employee several times the salary, no collective agreement in this case, no general agreement. So, dear friends, look very carefully at where we're going and what we're doing it for, and whose interests it's in. And then it's just impossible to change this legislation, because over this long period of business, it's going to be completely changed in its form.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, 3 minutes. Dear colleagues, and after that, we move on to making a decision. Please. So that's it, we're still looking at this law. Oh, is that in this two minutes? All right, I'm sorry. Then Zimbaluk Mikhailovich – 3 minutes, Klimpush-Cincadze – 2 minutes. And then we vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In keeping with the words of a colleague of the faction Mikhailo Wolinitz, this bill cannot be approved today. I'll try to explain why. First. During the war, it was not possible to hold additional and sufficient consultations with trade unions, employers, and civil society. It had to be postponed and held in peacetime a broad discussion of the law both employers and tradesmen want today. What Michael Volintz said is, I repeat, a risky norm that enterprises that employ up to 250 employees can make a direct agreement with the employer. Dear colleagues, it is then that all defense options and the Labour Code are lost, and trade unions are involved in protecting the interests of the employees employed. Next thing. Also, the second reading was not able to protect those who were on vacation and were to receive their wages on time. This suggests that there is an imperfect norm in this bill. Next. The dangerous thing is that the Committee on European Integration has concluded that this bill will be harmful to our movement into the European community. There is also the position of the world. The Congress of Employers and Tradesmen on the need not to rush into the adoption of such a bill. He risks not saving a 40-hour working week, and according to employers, more hours of work can be set if the employee agrees. Nor will such a law be effective in the context of war, for at a time when people are being laid off and looking for work, this law will in no way help them. Moreover, he brings out both employers and hired workers from the community of interests, as well as others. The Fatherland faction won't vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, 2 minutes Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. And then we go to the vote. Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, indeed, the conclusion of our committee is negative, which concerns this bill, and he speaks of, unfortunately, that he does not answer the European Union's law or the Association Agreement. I am sorry that these comments were not taken into account. But at least it is encouraging that colleagues have come to realize that such exceptions can only be made for a limited period of time. So I see that there is now an offer to make these changes exclusively during the war with additional months. At the same time, once again, colleagues, we're going, well, not just the wrong way, but the radically wrong way of ignoring the directives and regulations of the European Union even after we get candidate status. I'm going to insist that we stop this practice and eventually stop imitating European integration and move on to real action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I asked Julia Volodymyrna for two more minutes. Then we vote. Please take your seats while you're at it. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that we are going to the European Union with you at all. If someone forgot about it, I want to remind you of that. And this bill, which is now being proposed, absolutely lobbyist, is directed specifically at working people at businesses. There is a negative conclusion of the international trade unions in this regard. And the main thing is that it's in conflict with the entire set of provisions of the International Labour Organization convention. I would also like to remind you that at the beginning of next month we will have the Director General of the International Labour Organization, Guy Ryder. And I would like to remind you once again that, including his team, he is firmly against this "dragon" law, which violates the Constitution of Ukraine, in violation of the conventions of the International Labour Organization. It violates European directives on this subject. And what do we do then? And in fact, it essentially takes away the rights of working people. The employer will not have to justify the reasons for the dismissal. An unlimited right is granted to an employer to break the employment contract. All that's said here is that I don't want to do the math right now, but it's completely contrary to anything that can only be done in the world and in Ukraine. I ask all the MPs who are actually working on bills that really want Ukraine to be in the European Union to vote with red buttons. It's a shame to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. Please take your seats. Dear sprinters, take your seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to simplify the regulation of employment in small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities (registration No. 5371). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:02]] For 259. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, Danilo Alexandrovich. Julia Volodymyrna, what about the procedure? Julia Volodymyr from the procedure, then Danilo Alexanderovich from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u122	In fact, on the basis of the vote, I want to warn "Serve of the People" and all those who voted in favour of this disgrace that we are literally starting today to prepare an expanded analysis for the International Labour Organization, for the Eurocomys, for the international trade unions about what they are doing with the rights of working people in Ukraine. We're not just going to write this, we're going to explain it, and we're going to meet with the leaders of these structures to explain what democracy we have here, what are the criteria for joining the European Union. And I would also like to warn you that we strongly deny that you should put to the vote immediately signing and sending the President to sign as well. We want to rule out this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I propose to change the order of the day's affairs and now consider two bills: 6244 and 7378. People, accountants, these are accounting bills, they're second readings, there's virtually no rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, look, Danilo Alexanderovich has informed me that there is a general agreement with factions and groups that we can go over and vote without amending these two bills. All right, good fellows? Then we move immediately, should we vote on changing the agenda? Let's, if there's a general agreement, no one's denying it, let's go. Then, 6244. I'm making a decision right now, I suggest. I propose, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (registration No. 6244). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:43]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Similarly, Law 7378. I propose, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Interests of Persons Reporting and Other Instruments in the War or State of War (Registration No. 7378). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:34]] For 306 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Then we go to Bill 7427. Welcome to Andrey Mikhailovich Gerus. It is a draft of the Law on the Specificities of the Regulation of Relations in the Natural Gas Market and in the Field of Heating during Wartime and Further Recovery (7427). Dear colleagues, I understand that we will invite Alexi Yuriovich to speak for five minutes and we can vote. Alexi Yuryovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! 15 minutes, Julia Volodymyrna, and we're on our way. Who's first? Who will be the first? Julia Volodymyrna? Julia Volodymyrna is 15 minutes, then 5 minutes Alexi. You won't, will you? Ten, good. 15 minutes of Julia Volodymyrna, 10 minutes of Alexy Yuriovich, and then we go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, we need to listen to the position of our colleagues. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, this opportunity has arisen because more than 800 amendments to this famous bill have been made by our team. And just so that you, the bright people, don't torture us, we decided to take 15 minutes, 10 minutes, and two more for our deputies, just to give you a quiet sense of what's going on. I continue to believe that there are government officials in this room, apart from the contractors, and there are people who are serving Ukraine. I just want to believe it. You know, it's hard to think it's all rotted down to the floor. Dear friends, we are now talking to you about three bills. Two: budget and taxes for NAC Naftogazu -- we'll talk about it separately. And now for the general concept. I want to remind you that on May 21, 2022, Ambassador Oksana Markarov of Ukraine in the United States told you that within a 40 billion-dollar grant, $8 billion goes to direct budget support. $8 billion for all budget support. On June 7, 2022, the head of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, Yuri Vitrenko, at a meeting of the American Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (this is the Helsinki Commission) in Washington, D.C., said: "Warning!" – that NAC Naftogazu of these $8 billion in budget support to secure Ukraine's gas needs $8 billion in direct money to NAC Naftogaz. So to give you a sense of the scale of this figure, I just want to give you a comparison that last year, the entire Naftogaz NAC circuit, all of which is in all directions, is about 7 billion. Please tell me, where are these 8 billion to go, and what are the direct budget? That's the first thing I wanted you to know. That when Vitrenco made that statement, it was actually very surprising in Washington. Because NAC Naftogazu figures in America -- in a country that knows our balance sheet very well -- understand what he said. There was just a calm shock: it was just a direct discreditation of Ukraine. And I think something was said to him there because he decided that he now needs to get that 8 billion from the Ukrainian budget. And it's this law that 264 billion dollars should be sent to Naftogazu NAK. We just don't have any more expenses: we don't have war, we don't have help for refugees, we don't have anything practical. And we have a great budget income. 264 billion. Let's figure out what he wants for these 264 billion, for 8 billion. He wants to buy something in the external market about 6 billion cubic feet [6 billion cubic meters] of gas. To take a look at this situation, I'd like to put you back on balance. A balance that, unfortunately, is not represented by NAC Naftogaz, neither to the profile committee nor to the government, anywhere. There's no gas for this year in the country. We've collected it in pieces and now we have a general picture. Please, dear colleagues, note these figures. In the past peace year, you and I have spent only 26.8 billion cubic metres of gas throughout the country. This is total consumption in peacetime. Now we're talking about the balance of the year when we have the war, when almost half of the GDP fell. And you know what factories that consumed the largest key volume of gas, or destroyed by bombings, rocket fires, or stopped. You know how many people have left, how many houses have been destroyed. You realize we're not going to have consumption, like in peacetime, natural gas. Experts who know the balance very well have counted and said that this year we're going to need 20.5 billion. And it's a very high figure, with a reserve to keep Ukraine from getting anywhere. This means that the total gas volume of 26.8 billion a year in peacetime decreased by 23.5 percent. Although experts actually say that there will be at least 40 percent less consumption. Well, they only took 23.5 down, they got 20.5 billion needs for everything absolutely. Also, if you count real consumption, remember this figure, we're going to need about 16.1 billion. Well, we're taking 20.5 with a reserve. Now what do we have with you, which natural gas do we have? First. We have 8.8 billion cubic meters of gas in our underground gas depots, five-and-a-half of them state-owned, three-and-three-and-a-half-and-half-state. And 8.8 is lying. Well, it's estimated that we're taking the year to the beginning of the planned period. It's only 18.6 billion dollars' worth of its own. 12.8 - Crushing, a state company. Crustaceans are 1 billion, almost a state company. And private is 4.8 billion cubic meters. So it's just 18.6 government only 13.8. Now we're doing a simple arithmetic with you, in the column. How much gas do we have with you? It's private, it's state. But it's Ukrainian. 27,4, remember, write this number down. 27.4 is what we have for this whole heating year. We're going to need 20.5. We're going to need 20.5. That means that you and I have almost 7 billion more to spare, that's what we're going to have, and that's without buffer gas in the gas reservoirs. It's just that we can eat. And that's 19.3 billion government gas, and we need 20.5 at the largest, let's say, optimistic calculations. That means we're missing, well, about a billion, it's going to be negative 25 minus 30. Well, it's calculated at the lowest temperature. But you and I are still going to operate on all the gas. But our gas is almost enough, and we can take a billion gasses from Europe, a clumped gas that has nothing to do with Russia and has already been promised to us. In other words, you and I have a large supply of natural gas. Now I would like to ask: Why 264 billion then? Where are they going to take him? And here we have to look at the real picture, and the real picture is like this. Remember, I told you at the last meeting that our national gas, the Crushing, according to our NAC data, Naftogaz buys at the Crushing for about 7 gr. 28 copies per cubic meter. Unfortunately, we made a mistake because this number is not printed, it's closed, it's not given to anyone, why NAC Naftogaz buys gas in our state's Crushing, a closed figure. But we figured out, we got this number, and I tricked you a little bit, they're not buying 7.28, they're buying 4.4 with a 30-percent dollar bill. Now we're taking NAC Naftogaz along with the government the norm that this Ukrainian gas that they're buying by 4.4 dollars per cubic meter, they're going to be selling at prices on the habi in Düsseldorf. Doesn't that remind you of anything, just in case? It's 10 times more expensive! Ten o'clock! About 44 and above today, they're going to put the bracelets on the cubic meter. This difference, it's going to be budgeted at NAC Naftogaz. Can you just tell me what a global shame this is? What is it? Please tell me why NAC Naftogazu from the state budget take the money in the difference between what they're buying at the state gas company and the price on a habi in Dusseldorf? And they're going to take this money and they don't have to be paid anywhere, they're staying at NAC Naftogaza, and they're taken from the budget. My dear friends, I remember there was this saying "word in the law," and this is mega-corruption in the law. You see, we're adopting a law to consolidate mega-corruption at a time when the European Commission told us that corruption is the first condition to be stopped for us to be seen in the European Union at all. Damn it, tell me, why would the budget send this money to NAC Naftogaz when there's no need to spend it? But that's not all, dear friends. There's a lot more interesting. I want to tell you that what needs to be done is real. In fact, we need to do very simple things. We have to sell our government gas not through NAC Naftogaz, but directly with 30 percent profitability, we sell it in fakes, which are already state-owned, and we give it a 30 percent price plus transportation, plus there, I don't know what else to give to consumers directly. Because, in fact, the population, the budgetary sphere and the thermocommunerge, are completely out of scrapping gas and the Ukrnafts, they're closing in on this gas. For business, please don't have any problems, do whatever you want, sell the gas that you can buy today from private owners in our underground gas storage and private owners buy gas at a normal reasonable price, let's work with them, the one they're currently extracting. So underground gas dumps plus what they're extracting, their property is private, buy it. And there are two options or mix the state gas with this private and considering that business today is no easier than the people, sell it at the average price, and it's not going to be more than 5 dollars per cubic meter, or do it another way -- sell the population at the price of Crushing, Budget, Warmcommunergo, and give the business a little bit more than what you buy from private owners in PSG is underground gas storage and what they're now extracting. Your balance sheet, our balance sheet with you is 7 billion more covered than we need to spend in this heating period. And that's why we need to do three things with you right now, you and me. The first is to send all three bills for re-reading. The second thing that needs to be done is to create a temporary commission of inquiry, led by a normal intelligent person, choose who, someone from the People's Servants, who is willing to fight for state interests plus all factions, and let's ask for a real gas balance, real contracts for the purchase of Naftogazu NAC gas in the Crushing, let's put this balance together with you, and let's see that the minimum of these 264 billion at least is 170 billion -- it's a completely banal joint, that is, stealing money from the budget, 170 billion. And that's why we now have the opportunity to stop it with you. I'm sure the President has been misled, the President can't support it, he's just been misinformed. And let me make it clear to you, "The Servants of the People," after the work of the TSC. You can have it in a few days. To explain to the President what numbers are there and to send Vitrenk's name, that's the first thing we need to do with you. Excuse me, please. I apologize for the emotion. I won't say any more of those words. Next. I think we can adopt a normal law where everything will be balanced and all the needs will be met. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u127	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. Alexy Yuriovich, you'll be from the rostrum too, won't you? Please, Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko. Ten minutes? In 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we are in the same boat as the Ukrainian people. We don't have a choice, we have to win, we have to win. And first of all, I want to redouble a very smart proposal that just came out of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. David Georgiyovich, if it's good will as a leader of the monocoalysm, let's really make a professional commission that will study all of this in detail, both history and the problem. And we need to go out and figure out how to make sure that we don't fear that the country will be without heat and no gas. Will you support me? Thank you. I didn't doubt that. Now a few words. The numbers and the balance have been chronologically given to you by Julia Volodymyrical, and I just want to put you in simple words to really understand what's going on. In the 15th year, the Natural Gas Market Act was passed here in this room. As if it were European, the slogans were correct, adopted the Corporate Governance Act, the independent regulator. By the way, Fatherland supported that Law on the Gas Market, because there were normal fuses. There is only one nuance: there will be no gas market in the country as long as there is a Naftogaz NAC, which has a gas transport system under the control of Crushing, Repositories and at that time. Simple arithmetic: in the 15th year, 15 billion cubic metres of product gas were extracted. How much do you think the Crushing is getting now? 12 billion cubic feet [12 billion cubic m] of product gas. Strangely, prices are rising, payments are rising, and gas consumption is falling. Now the manager, the supermanager of the present, the genius manager Yuriyyovich Shevchenko, I think that's one of the major mistakes in today's functioning authorities that have reincarnated him into office. He's reporting last year on how experienced he is, how brilliant he is, he's showing 12 billion dollars of profit, he's on every channel, he's going to Washington, and he's hanging noodles on American government officials and officials. And now it's clear that, as of yesterday, the profit of Naftogaz NAC today will not be able to exist without an astronomical sum of 264 billion. Do you understand? Give me 264 billion and then you'll be warm, like this blackmail to Ukrainians. And I can, with your permission, if you and I were to announce a contest here, right in the walls of the Supreme Council. And they said, "Friends, are there people here who don't winter for 264 billion, let's say 240 billion?" So I'm going to say that maybe I would say, and give me 200 billion dollars from the budget, and I'll make a good winter. And Mr. Gerus will say, and I'll say 100 billion, because I know where they're stealing, I know, but I'm silent, and he'll say, I'm wintering 100, and I'll help you winter. And that's the key question that you and I are going to have to answer. Because Julia Volodymyr is just explaining to you: Ukrainian gas is completely sufficient for the population, for the thermocommunerge for the population and for the production and technology costs. So the second speculation, please tell us why we heard from Mr. Vitrenk ten times that if he didn't get the money, the prices and tariffs would go up five times. I don't understand, there's Ukrainian gas, the cost of its 3-4 bracelets is the gas of Crushing. NAC Naftogaz sells this gas for 8 bracelets to the population for 7.42 Heatcommunergo and says he has to draw the price of import parity there. So until we answer these simple key questions, no, we don't. Once again, we'll be in a closed corner. And I'm drawing your attention to the third key point, because there's no 264 billion in the budget, so there's going to be a timeline for budget changes, and that's going to be the third bill today that these costs, a large part, 188 billion should be taken from US financial support. I'm asking questions, and what are these naive American people that they're using their taxpayers' money, and now they're putting a huge amount of $6.5 billion in NAC Naftogaz and giving it to steal? Yeah, I'm, for some reason, I'm very afraid that this is why we're having an intense relationship with our strategic partner, so it's no longer about internal theft, it's about Ukraine's global geopolitical relationship. That's why, believe me, I can do this, I don't want to offend you, and lectures, and seminars are a lot to discuss on this subject ready, but I don't want to waste time. We are certainly not going to support this bill because it has been thrown into it, part of it has been corrected. And I am grateful to the Prime Minister that he finally realized what a weak bill the government had pushed into the Council. By the way, he apologized, right, those who were at the meeting? And the prime minister apologized, and the ministers apologized, and even the same Vitrenko, who was poorly adequate, apologized. But now you are trying to fix it, but it is virtually impossible to fix it. I'm afraid you can vote on this bill, but please remember that you're legitimizing this 264 billion-dollar fraud device by itself, that's $8.5 billion or euros, they're now even. So think! But I heard today and at the offer of Julia Volodymyrny Timoshenko, we gave you a hand, we extended with you to make an impartial professional commission and to answer all the questions that we have asked today. Thank you. Think!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, another minute is Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention for half a minute? Ruslan Alexiyovich, three years ago there was an incredible event in Ukraine: just three years ago this Parliament was elected, for the first time in history with a mono majority. In a month, an oath. And for the next two months, three months of work, the full composition of the MP and the full composition of the government were at each meeting. Look at the archive data! Ruslan Alexiyovich, the issue of colossal weight is being considered. A third of the national budget is now being distributed. Where to? Where's the Prime Minister? Where's the premier profile? Where's the Minister of Economics? Where is the minister of European integration, is this in line with European standards? Where is the foreign minister because this is international aid? Where's the Minister of Energy? Friends, how long will this take place? It's an empty tribune! Who are we doing this for?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to make your decision. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Specificities of the Regulation of Relations in the Natural Gas Market and in the Field of Heating during the Operation of the War and Further Restoration (registration number 7427). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:19]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, once again. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, I propose that this Bill 7427 be sent back to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:45:08]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm just reminding you, there were six votes missing. Six votes that went into the hall with coffee. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there an offer then today, perhaps these two others, as you say? [[B in m in s a l in]] One second! One second! One second, please. Dear colleagues, please, one moment, now. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal of 7428-2, 7429 to be moved next time. By this time, a second reading of this bill may have been prepared. What do you mean? Do you mean to take it off the table today, in order? What difference does it make? What, Nina Petrovna? Nina Petrovna Jujanina from the procedure, please, then Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, look. We have not now passed the basic law, but the tax-bound law cannot be considered separately. But it also needs to be sent back to the second, because maybe they're basically working out now and showing all the subjects involved in getting compensation. And then the tax committee will have to make a different decision. Because it is now up to the tax committee to decide without knowing the subjects of the entire chain, those receiving compensation, and the benefits are paid. So it seems to me that both the head of the profile committee, or then you can review it without a second decision. But there are certain things connected here. Then let's work together. I'm not talking about budget, it's actually closely related to basics. But the tax may also change before the review of the basic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u133	Please, Julia Volodymyr. After this. Just, please, from the procedure. Julia Volodymyrna. Then Andrew Gerus of the procedure. And Victoria Greeb. Just the procedure, colleagues. If it's not the procedure, I'll interrupt. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal for a second reading again, why? Because if this basic law is introduced even a little bit of a right, we're not going to be able to run those laws without re-voting for second reading again, it's going to mean that we're going to have to put that question there for three weeks. So it's in the interest of having a normal, intelligent formula accepted. That's the first one. The other one. I want to thank all state deputies who did not support this law but supported Ukraine and supported honesty in this matter. And I also want to go now to the leadership and to the members of the "Serve of the People" faction about creating a temporary commission of inquiry so that we can immediately look at all of them together, Parliament, all of these issues and build a completely non-corruption model.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Andrew Herus or Danilo. Andrew Herus, please, because he picked it up first. After that, we talked about Mrs. Greeb. After that, someone picked it up. I didn't see it. And then Danilo the Gethmans. And we're about to vote on a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to withdraw these two bills now and not vote them out again. If we have a committee decision and it's changed, we'll inform two relevant committees about it, and they'll be able to hold committee meetings and change their committee decision, particularly through the committee rights mechanism. So I suggest we not waste time or vote on these two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u137	That's absolutely right, I think. Thank you. Please, Mrs. Greeb.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I am here to support Julia Volodymyrna and Nina Jujanina, on the grounds that we are going to need to finalize those bills, including 7428-2 and 7429. So I think we need to make a decision today to send the second one back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u139	Thank you. Danilo Alexandrovich Getmants.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I do not wish to shock anyone, but such a procedure is on the committee as a return to consideration of the issues that have been dealt with before. If that's necessary, we'll come back and look at it. Everything is going to be fine, we don't have to send laws to read again today, and we don't have to create any more problems working on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a slightly different offer. Let's cut the lines twice to prepare for the second reading of this bill and speed it up, and we'll do all these questions? So that bill that went to the second one again, 7427, let's shorten the half-time preparation for the second reading. And we'll go out the next time, if there's any things on the committee they'll work quickly so they don't stretch. So I'm making an offer. Please prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote. I propose to shorten twice the time frame for re-reading Law 7427. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:13]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. It's just that now you're going to work twice as fast and next time you're ready, we're going to take it out. But I would very much like to ask, fellow honourable Members, when we lose five or six votes and we just keep a big committee job, that is, first of all, disrespect, and second of all, self-discipline for each and every one of us. I don't think we have such an extremely complicated job that we don't have the opportunity to devote this time period to working here in the hall. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. What do we have? Dear colleagues, 5108, statistics. Who will insist on their amendments? Nobody? Dear colleagues, may I bet? Then, my dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning State statistics (registration No. 5108). I've already put it up, I've already put it to the vote, my esteemed colleagues. I asked. Please vote. [[13:53:49]] For 237 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I asked you twice if you'd bet. The next one is 5886. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you going to have a lot of licenses? Two amendments from Princely and then we can vote. Dear colleagues, then we are now. [[B in m in s a l in]] How many amendments have you made? One amendment. Dear colleagues, 5886. [[B in m in s a l in]] 5886. Draft Act on Official Statistics. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can't speed up on stock companies because our colleagues said they'd make a lot of amendments. We're going in that order right now, and I'm asking you, let's finish this official statistics, thank each other and thank the next. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it not? Shareholders? Are you sure they won't bet? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do one thing at a time. Let's do it in a row, let's do it in a row. Okay, but now we're going into official statistics. We're going into official statistics now. After stock companies, we risk it. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Official Statistics. Bill 5886. I'm inviting you. Is it not? I don't understand. Come here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, one minute. Come on, I'll ask you like this. Dear colleagues, "shareholder" we can put up and vote, just like that? Julia Volodymyrna says no. How many amendments are you going to make, Julia Volodymyrna? Dear colleagues, well, if that's the case, I get my favorite paper. Or should we say "privatization" without amendment? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the list of questions that you have previously agreed upon, we have almost passed, so thank you all for your fruitful work. We are not closing our plenary session, the time and place of our next meeting, and you will be informed in advance. We work together to win the glory of Ukraine!
