ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council is working in a plenary session continuously in accordance with our decisions: the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the conditions of martial law and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on February 24, 2022." Therefore, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, in our good tradition, let's begin our work by performing the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear national MPs, every day in a brutal war with Russian invaders, our brave soldiers shed their blood for the Ukrainian state and its freedom. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to all who gave their lives for Ukraine. Everlasting memory and glory to heroes! We also honor the memory of citizens who were innocently victims of a cynical Russian invasion. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian National Deputies: Oksana Anatolyevna Greenchuk. Let's say hello. "Serve of the people." [[Applause]] Taras Ivanovich Batenka, Party for the Future. [[Applause]] Sergia Vijacheslavovich Kozir, "Serve of the People". [[Applause]] And Sergija Sergiyovich Severin, "Sergeant of the People." [[Applause]] Let's welcome our colleagues. Strong Health and Success! Dear colleagues, I have here now, before we move on to the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to read your statements right now. Can I read it, please? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, two statements have been made. One is a break with a replacement for the performance. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko will speak. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u2	Dear friends, I don't know if our faction will be happy to make a brief appearance at the Istanbul Convention, but I would like to have a guaranteed speech on this subject and say a few important things to you right now. The point is that the convention is called a very beautiful one: prevention of violence against women. But you know very well that we women, of course, do not have violence against us, sometimes women themselves can respond well. But at the same time, I want to say that this convention isn't really about that. Yeah, it's against violence, it's true. And you and I have one of the strongest laws in the world to combat domestic violence. We even have criminal responsibility, which is not available in most countries of the world. But what's most important, in this convention, is the notion of a gender. And I want you not to think that this is just a normal equality between men and women. It's not about that, it's not about violence. That's completely different. I think even if you open up a regular Wikipedia and I open it, I want to read to you what a gender is. Gender differences — who you are, a man or a woman — are not made by nature, but are formed in the process of gender socialization: under the influence of family education, schooling, interaction with other children. Once this convention is adopted, there will be a very long way of adopting appropriate legislation that will say that our children have been born, not the way they were born, but the way they were raised by school, family, society, and so on. And in fact, at age 12, they can only determine who they are — her, him, or her. I want to tell you that if we have a free country, people who do what they want to do with their sex life -- please, no one in our country forbids it. But what we can't do about raising children from birth is we can't let you destroy the mentality of our children, who will then become mentally ill. And I'm sure every one of you knows that and understands that you can't take it in Ukraine. We can't split Ukraine into two parts right now, because unity in war is important to us. Today, we cannot do things that involve strategies that threaten the very existence of an institution like our family and the health of our children. And so I'm convinced that I can say it again, but let's start thinking about it and not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, another statement came from two factions with a real break, but colleagues ask for 15 minutes. So if you don't mind, in 15 minutes we'll be meeting in the hall. And the first question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I'm asking the faction leaders and groups to meet me in my office for 15 minutes. In 15 minutes in the hall, and the first question is the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u4	Andrew Motovlovets, come here for a second. Dear colleagues, we have completed our conversation with the leaders of factions and groups. And there is such an offer, please listen carefully. When we consider the first issue of the Istanbul Convention, we agreed that from each faction to 5 minutes, and then we move on to the vote. As a result, however, all amendments under other laws will be limited by a small statement to prevent us from entering other laws into major amendments. Dear colleagues, we take this decision from the leaders of factions and groups. And so let's start with the next one. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, honourable national deputies propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the daytime voting. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote. I remind you that it is necessary to hold the sensor button and click on the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the vote, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, the signal vote. People's deputies please take their seats, prepare for the signal vote. Please start the signal vote. [[12:38:01]] For 292 A signal vote has been taken. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. And the first question is Bill 0157. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:38:45]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would then like to invite Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, Olga Vitaliyovna Stefanišina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u5	Congratulations, colleagues. Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the national parliament, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and Relevant Significances (No. 0157) (since 18.06.2022). The bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine. A bill that envisions ratification of this convention, supported by the President, developed by the government in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The rights and freedoms of everyone are one of the fundamental values of the European Union. And today there will be an important bill that will strengthen Ukraine's voice in Europe in the fight for rights, security and ultimately the lives of our citizens, more than 5 million of whom are now abroad. These are mostly women and children. And today we have no information, no data, and no mechanisms to interact with the European Union states on their protection, including when they experience gender-based violence, domestic violence, or child violence. Of course, the convention over the years, since 2011, when it was signed, has sparked a lot of debate about issues that have just been quoted by the head of the Fatherland faction, but we have decided that this decision should be adopted. Therefore, the bill is submitted to Parliament for consideration in order to ensure, first and foremost, the rights and freedoms of our citizens within the country and abroad. In order to minimize the risks of the various interpretations of the convention, the convention offers a statement and a warning, which includes the following. Next: Ukraine acknowledges, does not consider any of the provisions of the convention as binding on it to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, the Family Code of Ukraine, other laws of Ukraine regarding the institutions of marriage, the family.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u6	Thank you, Olga Vitaliyevna. We've got two minutes. Thank you. The word is given to the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Alexander Alexander’s Network. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head, dear friends, has come a decisive, historic day and no exaggeration, a historic vote that will show who really is for European values, for European integration, and who is not. The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 19 June 2022, reviewed the draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis and in general, taking into account technical legal rights. The purpose of the draft law is to implement the internal procedures necessary to take effect for Ukraine of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. The ratification of the Convention will help to raise Ukraine’s political image in the international arena as countries that consistently adhere to their obligations in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The ratification of the Convention becomes particularly relevant the day before the final decision by the European Union to grant Ukraine the status of candidate to join this organisation, which is fully in line with the EU membership course established in our Constitution. According to an explanatory note signed by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the implementation of the law does not require funding. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council does not deny the possibility of adopting a bill. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and to enact the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and on combating these phenomena. Thank you for your attention. And I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that each faction is entitled to up to five minutes. Let's write down those factions and groups that want to come out of the Istanbul Convention. Please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, five factions have been registered. So once again, I ask very, very distinguished colleagues, to keep a presence in the hall, not to disperse. And I invite first Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Motherland Union" in five minutes. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u9	So, dear fellows, I go on. And I want to start by saying that yesterday we had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine and Mrs. Stefanishina with the faction leaders. And it made it clear that the Istanbul Convention does not belong to that package of requirements that the European Union gives us to apply for. It's very important, I'm asking you to pay attention. If you're being blackmailed by not being admitted to the European Union because of that, that's not true. And the second argument is important. Not all countries have ratified this convention. For example, of our four border neighbours, Slovakia did not ratify it or ratify it, I think, Hungary. In addition, Poland, which is our neighbour, is now conducting the process of denunciation of the ratified Istanbul Agreement. From those countries that are very supportive of us in this war: Latvia, Lithuania, Great Britain, the Czech Republic -- no one ratified this convention. This did not prevent them from becoming members of the European Union. So don't be manipulated. Next. Now you've been told that with the convention, there's a special law that gives you the right not to put something into the Constitution or something that doesn't fit in the laws. That's not true either. Because there are 78 articles of the convention that explicitly prohibit any warnings other than those listed in this convention. So any warnings don't work. And that's why Poland is denunciation today because it's taking warnings. I would also like to give you a completely factual scientific example. Western scientists have carefully studied how in the Northern European countries, this gender philosophy, the gender ideology, is used among the members of the European Union. And it was found that in those countries where this gender ideology was most used, it was the most violent against women. That's very specific, and they call this paradox "the Scandinavian paradox." I can tell you that maybe if women are no longer counted by women, then they can be beaten and raped and anything they want to do. Because they are no longer women, they are no longer the best part of our planet, the gentlest and weakest. I would also like to tell you that I now have the Council of Churches Address, where they just said that during the war you cannot destroy the unity of the country, you cannot split the country today. Here's a call from the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, the Supreme Archbishop of Kiev-Gallian Svetoslav. Here signed the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, Epiphanius. You were approached by all the Protestant churches. I mean, if someone wears a cross and goes to church, then either don't vote for this convention, or take the crosses off and don't go to church, because what you're offered is incompatible with your faith. And the last thing I'd like to say. That the questions that basically transform our whole lives when you raise children from birth are no longer based on them to become biological, physiological, and you're going to be able to raise your child if he's a boy, a girl, and vice versa. If you want to open this box of Pandoras, first think about your children, and secondly ask society in a referendum if they're ready to go. Do you know why you're not going to the referendum? Because you know exactly that most societies -- 80 percent is the minimum -- against ratifying it now, and against ruining our children's lives, completely destroying our Ukrainian families and depriving the Ukrainians of the spirituality that is today the foundation of all our present and future victories. And that is why I urge all Ukrainians and believing people, as well as intelligent people, not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u10	The word is given to the national MP, Andri Andriyovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u11	Give God health, friends, colleagues! I would like to remind you today of another vote that took place in this room on February 23. Then by a successful majority was accepted openly weak and absolutely one who does not regulate the situation for now, the Civil Circumstances Act. Yes, that was February 23rd. From this rostrum, I have been addressing you and asking that in the face of great aggression, allow our fellow citizens to defend themselves now. Now we have another vote, already in times of war, an important, important law, an important ratification. But important to whom? For Ukrainians, in order to do something about our national legislation, or for some very influential world groups of influences, how uninteresting are we? How can we even ask in times of war the question that we are taking concessions from you? You, in most of your Christian country. When you have a traditional family institution, parenthood is extremely strong. You have the highest potential for development in European countries. What do we want to auction in exchange for allowing you to submit or become a candidate? First of all, I think it's a rude manipulation of not even those countries that seem to be trying to submit that they've turned. If it's so important to them, let them do it officially, they say we're against it or we're against what you Ukrainians have to fix. Otherwise, it is a manipulation that is not worthy of such countries. This is the first moment. One second. What is imposed on us and what is said to be taken into account, and it seems that we are now accepting with caution, the experience of our neighboring Poland proves the opposite: it is not acceptable with warnings. Period. That is why not only did the Polish denunciation process begin, but they have already submitted it to the Constitutional Court to reach its conclusions. They expect similar conclusions, which were in Bulgaria, where the Constitutional Court directly stated that this was contrary to our Constitution. People are good, I know a lot of people are saying, or it's the President's job. Maybe. Perhaps it is his personal responsibility. Personal responsibility will be yours. If there's a wedge in this world, I don't know. I don't know if we can win this war at all, because the second reading of the bill, even with reading, is not yet being introduced into the hall so that we citizens have all the possible and effective tools to protect themselves. Let's not just protect ourselves. Let's protect the future. Remember that the nation is alive, they are dead, and, above all, they are still unborn as they will be. Otherwise, for whom do we fight in this war today? This isn't about territories. This is about our new, conscious choice. And it's very personal, not for most of us, there's our faction, there or there. I regret that in most of our time we have divided our tradition of deep understanding of God and faith. Then maybe we should change the anthem that we say together from the beginning? What kind are we? What were our ancestors fighting for? Without faith, without our future, without our traditions we have no future, you have to understand that. So please either pull out your cards or hold on. And whoever has a position, vote against this ratification. Thank you very much. And now the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u12	Please give the word Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! More than 10 years ago, Ukraine made important commitments to become a part of European space, to create, instead of national television loudspeakers, social speech. But as it turns out, when our team passed an important law, and instead of the hole, the state language, it created public language, another team, despite the good law, can today turn this social language into the worst state television channel where censorship is. And so, in fact, no ideal law can inculcate Europe if it has not become a principle. Excuse me, but our religion should be Euro-Atlantic integration, which is principles. How does the European Union differ from the horde? First and foremost, respect for women, respect for opposition, respect for the opponent, freedom of speech, protection of human rights, respect for the country and for human rights. And when we talk to you in this room every day about respect for opposition, about the fact that it is not possible to impose an authoritarian regime, to impose political censorship, no one hears that. What does that mean? This means only one thing: unfortunately, for the leadership of the state, unfortunately, and for many in this room, Euro-Atlantic integration is a conjuncture. And it's very painful. NATO's word has disappeared altogether from the lexicon of this room, and NATO is as important today as the European Union. You know, "be loved" is a narrative of the Russian world. Well, we need to get rid of not only "being-loving," because that's what Russian peace commands, but we need to get rid of this disrespect for the opposition, and this disrespect for the media, and this fear that is stifling you all today, to protect the principles. There is no day when our team does not speak with the leadership of the state that Euro-Atlantic integration is principles. Madam Vice - Prime Minister of Euro-Atlantic Integration, you did not say a word about political censorship in the country. And that's going to be a problem for the European Union. You never said that the MPs should not be disturbed by their political activities when Mr. Dustyenko was banned from going abroad? - to the ERR summit, where, by the way, the ratification by Ukraine of the Istanbul Convention was supported, because in the resolution of the ERR summit there is this. But the authorities almost blocked the dialogue. And so actually, colleagues, I'm not going to, and our team, get tired of repeating every day: we need to DNAize this "Russian peace" in our heads. The principles of the European Union and NATO must be in your head. No law, if you do not have it in your head, will change your attitude toward what Ukraine should be. It really has to be European, it really has to be Euro-Atlantic, but it doesn't have to be in words and not just in voting for a green button, it has to be in everyday action to defend freedom of speech, democracy, respect for the Ukrainian army, respect for opposition, respect for the woman, respect for the child. To all Ukrainian families, we want strength and love, and to do so we need real respect and dignity. During the war, unfortunately, the number of psychological injuries is increasing, the number of aggression is increasing, and it is increasing. And so this position of protecting the family, protecting the mutual respect, is going to become our ideology. Start with yourself. Those here today talk so much about how to protect a Ukrainian woman, a Ukrainian child, but start with yourself. Think of how you treat each other in your families. This too will be very important. As for our political team, once again, I want to stress that Euro-Atlantic integration is our religion. So for freedom of speech, for democracy, for mutual respect, so that we not only have a word and a green button, but we have been protecting the European Ukraine, which our heroic army is fighting for today. And in this context, very often silence, including the leadership of the Supreme Council, on the key violations of democracy, freedom of speech, which pave the way for our journey to the European Union, is shameful. Once again, using this opportunity, we urge that we act as President Zelensky said yesterday. The Euro-Integration Week begins, so turn on three patriotic channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u14	The word is given to the national deputy. Kulinich is handing over to Aresonkov. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. Dear colleagues, after that, we have another speech and we vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, of course, a very interesting, hot discussion is now in the session room. This suggests that the bill that we are considering is unforgivable. It's deep. It is as profound as it is, because it touches the moral, spiritual, social, and legal principles of activity and life of every Ukrainian citizen. But it's important to what the consequences might be if we follow those basic standards that are laid down as the foundation of the Istanbul Convention. And I want to start by saying, dear colleagues, that the consequences will be what, as we will bring them into life. Because the main positions, the conceptual positions that are set up in this convention, are absolutely understandable, and they cannot be denied by most citizens. Because it is the foundation of international law, national law? It is the guarantee of the rights of every citizen — a man, woman, child — to ensure their equal rights and equal opportunities for the realization of this right at all stages of life. Actually, that's the point of what we're looking at today. Of course, the "Trust" MP agrees that there are two, as it were, elements: political and meaningful. As far as politics is concerned, I want to say that our state has not done everything in its first year to ensure that national legislation is implemented, is in line with the essence of European and international law, and we have to bring our national legislation, our laws into line with international law. Actually, that's what we're doing today. I would like to remind women's and men's equal rights and opportunities that as early as 2005, Ukraine had adopted the Law, which was entitled "To ensure the equal rights and opportunities of women and men." Once again, in 2005. It made clear the concept and terminology of gender - related differences. And they, my respected politicians, exist no matter how much you deny them. Another question: How, in what way will we bring these differences to our children, to our society, and on what exactly will we insist? And once again, it's up to you and me to make sure that the main positive points that are now being put into this convention are reflected in our real lives. That's why the Trust MP group takes into account the content of the bill. We were working with a working group that made some warnings that tried to make the text a real match for how it could be used, how it was implemented. And I think we need to support the committee's decision today, because once again, I emphasize, this is a step on our way to European values. And as we introduce them to Ukraine, it's up to you, your honor. And I think we're going to do it right, in accordance with the legislation in force and exercising the rights of women, men and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please make the final statement. Marina Bardina, "Serve of the People." Dear colleagues, after that we will vote. Please invite all the national deputies into the hall and take their seats. Please, Mrs. Bardina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today is a great day and the beginning of a great week for Ukraine, a week that can lead us to a real European family. A week that can put such a fat spot on Ukraine’s becoming part of a European family. And it is with you today that it is our duty to do our utmost, depending on us, to make such a decision by the leaders of the European Union at the end of the week. We know at what cost this window of opportunity is given to us during this period. It's the price of thousands of lives, it's the price of thousands of Ukrainian families who lost family members who lost loved ones. As a parliament, we must continue our work and make decisions that will push our European colleagues to believe in Ukraine's European future, to believe in us as a truly strategic and reliable partner. As far as the convention is concerned, I want to bring you all back to the spirit of this convention. What's she talking about? Her name is "To protect women from domestic violence." Yes, it protects women, children, men, all members of the family when it comes to elderly people, including men. But the key is to protect against violence. Do you know what statistics we have in the country about domestic violence? During the year 2021, 325,000 people, 325,000 per year, were contacted by the National Police. And that's 56 percent more than it was in 2020. What does this mean for us as deputies? The fact that domestic violence is becoming less and less silent in Ukraine today is that women and men, including women, are turning to law enforcement agencies and asking for protection. But what do we offer them as a state? We can propose an investigation, but we can't offer proper medical care, we can't offer adequate psychological assistance, rehabilitation, and this is very often a matter of genital damage, psychological damage as long as a person is subjected to some aggressive oppression, etc. Last year alone, for the first time, I was a state -- I am very grateful to all of you for supporting this decision -- a subsidy was granted to build day centres, shelters for victims of domestic violence, but in Ukraine there are still 16 units left for the whole country. While in the countries that ratified the Istanbul Convention, there should be one shelter for 10,000 people living in the community. What does ratification in this key mean for us? That most of you will be able to get European money into your districts, into your communities to build day centers and help your voters fight domestic violence. This is not just a story for women because men often experience psychological violence at home, and they need it. Yeah, we don't have a culture to ask for help, but after those applications, we already see the unprecedented willingness of the Ukrainians and the demand to help and support them. If we're talking about countries that ratified the Istanbul Convention -- 35 countries -- this is Moldova and Georgia, which, like Ukraine, want to be members of the European Union, and Moldova did it six months ago. This is Britain, which is also in the process of preparing ratifications, and we have received this information from British colleagues on many occasions. So first of all, the spirit of the convention is to prevent domestic violence, it's to build shlerers, it's to cooperate with law enforcement authorities if violence is committed against our Ukrainians who live abroad. Only then will we be able to require the law enforcement authorities of another State to treat and investigate such cases properly. Therefore, Ukraine's ratification will only win, win both the resistance to violence and the movement to the European Union, and obtain an application, an official membership application. I ask you to vote. Because a happy family is a family that has no experience of violence. A happy family is where children don't see what happens between parents. And we have to raise such a society. Please support and vote in favour and become a part of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Marina. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. As the national MPs gather, I want to talk about what Mrs. Marina has done, and I've been talking about this at the faction leaders and groups. It is absolutely right that all of this depends primarily on families. Not from parliamentary statements, not from loud slogans, but primarily from every family. And I want to quote the words of Matt Greening, the man who wrote the most fantastic television cartoon show "Simpsone." When asked how to avoid raising the Barts Simpsons in the family, he said a unique thing: Not to be Homer Simpson. So, dear fellows, we are now making a truly historic decision. That's why I'm asking you to get ready. This is the beginning of our European integration week. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. I'm making an offer. Ready to vote? I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the Fight against These Emergencies (registration No. 0157). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:42]] For 259. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Show me the factions, please. Let's see the factions. Thank you, thank you to all your colleagues. Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we were going to have an anti-corruption strategy, but now there are some other issues that are working on a single amendment. So please don't break up, let's move on without discussion to Bill 7451. This is a project to amend the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property and other Ukrainian legislative acts to facilitate the relocation of enterprises in conditions of war and economic recovery of the state. Dear colleagues, we only accept a cut in time, so I'd like to ask the national MPs not to part. I'm proposing to include Bill 7451 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:52]] For 256 The solution. Keep your distance. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to establish an urgent bill and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the opening of the plenary session of June 2022 on Bill 7451. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:29]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask the factions and groups here to meet for literally two minutes to talk about anti-corstatology. People's deputies, please don't go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u19	Colleagues, we're going to go to law school while, there are those who are willing to apply. But I'd like to propose to Fatherland first, maybe give you five minutes or seven. Yes, Julia Volodymyrna? Oh, you got a man at the meeting there, got it. Okay. Then we have Marikowski. Please, Alexander, where are you? What do you mean, "not this one"? We're looking at 2207 right now. This is the law you need. Do you want five minutes or each turn as we go? How? [[B in m in s a l in]] Separately on each side, okay. You have a deviation, you have a discount, let's start with your lines. Which are yours? I'm sorry, we're moving on to the question, we haven't made a formal announcement. The draft Law 2207-1-d is the draft Waste Management Act. Please, there's a committee representative on the podium. Kirill Nesterenko, please. And then, Mr. Alexander, which of these are your rights? Let's start with yours. Please, Marikowski, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u20	The five rights I ask you to take into account are 504, 743, 816, 1124 and 1569.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u21	That's what I'm talking about. Are these your changes, or are they others?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u23	It's yours, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u24	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u25	Okay, let's go. 504 correct, one minute. One minute to Marikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u26	504 axles. The PRI is performed exclusively by means of the manufacturer’s extended liability system. This is a modern norm that has to be interpreted unequivocally. There's a 501, which is fully accounted for, in which there's ambiguous treatment. I'm asking you to take 504 into account, which is purely because of extended liability systems, where taxes are an additional tool for ERW, not instead. So I'm asking you to support the 504. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u27	I'm betting on the vote of amendment number 504 of the people's MP Marikovsky. She's rejected by the committee, isn't she? Will you comment, Mr. Kirill? Oh, no? Where are you going? To consult? Please, one minute to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the bill was rejected by the subcommittee. Please do not support and leave in the form that has been voted on by the subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u29	Alexander, your minute is up. I'm betting on the vote number 504. The committee didn't support it. Please don't support me. Please vote. [[13:19:19:19]] For-99 Please continue 743 revisions. Marikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u30	Thank you very much, colleagues, for your support. In fact, I'm just going to take out eight rights. Seven left. These are very important amendments to balance this bill, so that there is no double regulation, do not impose eco-data as a substitute for the extended responsibility of R & D. It's 743 now. Waste management is also the mandate of Mindocyl and Minregio. By duplicating their credentials, it is proposed that the approval of the targets be placed in the office of the Ministers of Ukraine. And MINREGION AND MINDOVKIL should work together to establish a basis for such indicators. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u31	Thank you. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u32	Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u33	Please vote. Amendment number 743, rejected by the committee. [[13:21:03]] For-98 No decision taken, no correction counted. 816th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, thank you for your support. I have the next amendment under the NCRECR. As we know, the NCRECR has the authority to set a reasonable tariff. However, the NCRECR has been removed from this bill, i.e. the Minregion is engaged in tariffs. The Minregion -- what is the mandate of the Minregion to deal with waste? It's to get the waste out of town somewhere. It's the lowest tariff, it's not going to cause processing. And that's why I think it's necessary to support 816 in order to encourage waste treatment so that we don't have to go to garbage dumps. We have 30,000, I'll remind you. And if we're socially aware, we need to support this 816. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u36	Regarding this amendment, it was also rejected by the subcommittee and was not supported by the Association of Cities, the body that will do so. So please, colleagues, don't support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u37	Please, 816 is not supported by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. Please vote. [[13:22:52]] For-103 The decision is not taken. The next 1124, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u38	1124, yes. The scope of household waste refers to the powers of Mindowkill and Minregio, according to this law we have two ministries. I would, of course, give it to the Minneconomy at all because it's the private sector that makes it possible to develop this sphere, but the environmental component and the mineral component is important to balance on the basis of the Cabinet of Ministers. So they have to develop an investment plan, and they have to approve it in the Cabinet of Ministers. That's what this is about. Think adequately and vote green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u39	Thank you. Please read 1124 Marikovsky. Not supported by the committee. Please vote. [[13:24:04]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Your next amendment is 1569.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u40	Now, please, people, listen carefully to this correction. Separate collection of household waste is essential. Regrettably, the bill does not take this into account today, but without this amendment it is impossible to establish the circular economy required by the European Union. We are now flying with you to the European Union on an accelerated turbine, so please support this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u41	Yes, 1569 is considered editorially by the committee. Do you want to go full or what? Full-scale. But what is the position of the committee? Leave it to the committee, right? Please, Nesterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u42	Colleagues, separate technical issues that need to be reconciled according to European standards, can be taken into account after the adoption of legislation in the drafting of sub-legislative legislation. So please leave as voted by the subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u43	I'm betting on Marikowski's vote to take full account of the bill. Please vote. [[13:25:48]] For 158. The decision is not taken. The amendment stayed with the committee. Please, you've continued to have deductions. But it's not your work, is it? It's not yours. Can we let Marikowski put them up right now to slightly disrupt the normal process? To confirm, yes. Please, 456. That's for confirmation, right? Julia Volodymyrna, we're five minutes after him. Well, to finish this block by voting, and then you'll speak. Please, 456.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u44	456 lashes. A pre-regulatory amendment, which, according to articles 116, 118, has not been properly applied (unfortunately, we also have such procedures), severely violates Directive 98 on waste. That is, it suggests that waste be determined by non-waste if they have been sorted. That's absurd. For only those objects that meet the valid criteria can declare the status of an end to waste. These criteria are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for each type of waste: scrap metal, plastic, and so on. Therefore, this amendment must be annulled, cancelled, rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u45	Yes, colleagues, committee, Kirill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u46	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u47	Okay. Amendment 456 National Deputies Bondarenko, Nesterenko. She's a committee member. The committee proposes to continue to support it. Please vote. [[13:27:53]] For 226 Decision taken. Please check your account. 501 on, Marikowski. Oh, no? Next? What's that, 1177? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u48	Because she's 501. 504 didn't pass, so there's no point in putting it. 1177 is also a non-regulatory amendment that completely clears the main conditions for burning waste. Just think: Before the burning! In line with Directive 75, they were voted in the first reading. This sets the conditions for handling waste burning temperatures, which should be at least 850 degrees and gives green light to the Energy plant. People will continue to be poisoned in Kiev. Please look, this is the one thing I want to reject, if only one. Please demonstrate your ecological consciousness and position. Let's just turn one down, that's all. I don't have a license anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u50	I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this amendment, leave it. Because it's manipulation, and there's no answer to that question. That's why we vote and we support, and we're going to do everything really environmentalally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u51	Thank you. I'm betting on vote 1177. She's a committee member. The committee requests that it continue to support it. Please vote. [[13:29:48]] For 202 The edit is not counted, so it is rejected. I hope that this will not result in the need to apply 131 articles now to us. Please, Marikowski, have you finished, yes, your brilliant breakthrough like this? Please, Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, right? You can go to the rostrum, Julia Volodymyrna. Oh, no? You're fine there. Okay. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, let's just be honest about what this law is about. In fact, you know that there's a mob around every dumpster today that gets some of this junkyard, and it doesn't exactly work according to European standards on these garbage dumps, it doesn't sort this garbage, it doesn't process it. The maximum they do is they choose the most interesting things in these dumps or they put pipes in them to get biogas. But the garbage dumps remain, poisoning our land. You know how much of Ukraine's colossal land is under these dumps. This has nothing more dangerous ecologically than the grief we have. And it's because there's a mob around every dumpster that won't let any investors or normal crews that can process this garbage, that's why they're not being processed. What does this absolutely lobbyist law entail now? That now these garbage dumps will not be communal property, but they will take away these mafias that have worked on them for decades. They're well known to everyone by name, these people behind it. They're taking private property and they're going to continue this destructive business for Ukraine, in paws and paws. I want to ask you, what are you doing? Moreover, if there are real investors who want to process this garbage that wants to deposit money, they will have to make a deal after this law starts working, not with the councils, not with the mayors, not with anyone, not with the community. They're gonna have to make a deal with this mob that's got these junkyards. So tell me, why are we doing this? And in addition, this law also states that it is necessary to burn garbage. But in the world, they don't burn this garbage for a long time. Moreover, it has to be sorted, it is not clearly stated, this requirement. There are no competitions there to privatize these garbage dumps by the mafia that works there today. It's a totally corrupt, absolutely lobbyist law, which unfortunately not only will not get us out of the garbage dumps, but it will fix this situation, which is today, unfortunately, in Ukraine with this misery. And so in fact, our hundreds of rights that we put into this bill were foresighting very right things. First. These are the right technologies for garbage treatment, which are completely environmentally clean, our remedies have not been taken into account. We predicted that only those companies that would compete with the recycling technology and make the best, ecological proposals could be launched to privatize these garbage dumps. They didn't count it. So tell me, for whom is this law made, and why is it made? In order for the mob to become law-abiding garbage dumps? So I just want to ask the MPs: read the bills, study them before voting, somehow put these bills together with the national interests of the country, somehow learn what you're launching and what you're opening up strategies for the country. What you now accept is contrary to all the European Union's requirements for Ukraine's entry into the European Union. First of all, there's corruption, second of all, there's no transparent procedure here, third of all, it's about fixing this mess that's already based on private property, it's practically not investing in this sector. And so the question is, who are we now adopting this law for? Notice, too, that during war this law was somehow defined as a priority. Not what needs to be done for people today, who are refugees, not what needs to be done for our army, but what laws are now adopted is totally corrupt and lobbying. Who allowed such corrupt and lobbyist laws to be imposed during the war? And that's why I urge you not to support this, because in my concept, this bill is not fit.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u53	Please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Dear colleagues, we are preparing to vote. Please take your seats, invite MPs to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that another one of yours or what? Four? Please, Victoria Greeb. You just didn't get along, so we didn't get along. You want every minute or so.?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u54	Give me two minutes instead of four.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u55	Two minutes and four adjustments. Okay. Please, Victoria Greeb, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I also propose to abstain from voting for this bill because it is not a priority today and it needs to be worked out. If it's accepted in the way we have it today, it won't just work. This is going to be a field for corruption. So I'm asking you very much, or let's take the motions anyway, or not vote for the bill. And now I'm asking you to support the four revisions: 104th. 106th, sorry, 276, 681 and 1473. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u57	Let's do it one by one again. Is that all you've done, Mrs. Victoria? It's all your work, isn't it? Okay. Let's start with the first one. 101st, right? 106th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u58	The first is 106th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u59	106th Amendment of the People's Deputy of the Gryb, she's rejected by the committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u60	Colleagues, please reject and vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u61	Please, I'm putting to the vote number 106 of the people's deputy, Grib, she's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:37:31]] For-74. The decision is not taken. What's next, Mrs. Victoria?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u62	276.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u63	276. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u64	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u65	Decline. I'm betting on the vote number 276 of the People's Deputies of the Fungi of Victoria. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:38:12]] For-64 The decision is not taken. What's the next amendment, Mrs. Victoria?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u66	684.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u67	684. And it's not your turn, Mrs. Victoria, it's Cradenko. Maybe some other number? What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u68	681.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u69	681.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u71	It's yours. I'm betting on the vote of 681 National Deputy Gryb Victoria, she's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:39:15]] For-72 The decision is not taken. What's the next one, the final one?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u72	1473.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u73	1473, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u75	All right, we'll check it out. Yeah, it's your paper. I'm betting on the vote of 1473 People's Deputy Victoria Greeb. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:39:58]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Is there no longer anyone who would like to be corrected? [[B in m in s a l in]] What? With motive? Well, it's not usually practiced. One minute, okay, with motive. Right away, invite your deputies into the hall while they speak out of motive. Please give me one minute. Please give me a minute of motivation. Please, Magera.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ruslan Alexiyovich, what are my motives if I don't have a decision to accept me to the committee from January? We don't even need a vote to put it on the agenda. I'm asking you to take it out, because you've officially promised me. So I'd like you to bring this up in the next few sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u77	Thank you. I would like to remind you, in accordance with the Rules, that it is worth speaking on the subject under consideration. Have you applied to this committee? And then, yes, that's the subject. Please put the vote to a decision on Bill 2207-1-d. Accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please vote on the draft Waste Management Act. [[13:42:02]] For 282 Decision taken. Let me show you through the factions. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Colleagues, as to the next question -- anti-corruption strategy -- we need to hold a faction council with the participation of the head of the anti-corruption committee. So I'm calling it a 30-minute break, up to 30 minutes. And we invite the heads of factions and the head of the anti-corruption committee to the office of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. There is now a proposal to move on to 5650. In particular, there have been papers in Fatherland, or, as we agreed, I don't remember. Do you have a speech or an application? Forests, forests, yes. Edit. Maybe even then? Oh, no? Here we go to Bill No. 5650: draft Act amending certain legislation on forest conservation. Please, you're in Fatherland. Can I get your license numbers? Or how do you propose? Eutushka. Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u79	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Chairman, I had four papers there. One count, three please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u80	Can I have the numbers? Tell me again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u81	Rule number 36, row number 42, row number 75. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u82	Can we give you two minutes and then three adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u83	Let's do it one at a time. Every single one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u84	On every side? Okay, fine. We have a committee representative on the rostrum. Please, Shepherd. Then please correct number 36. Eutushka. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u85	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, there are a number of warnings about every provision of this law regarding the alienation or granting of forestland to anyone who wishes. I tried, in principle, to make sure that even if a person wanted to take these forests, he would do so, not entirely, but with certain limitations. So I'm asking you to put the number 36, which says that forest management by forest owners or forest owners, whose total area is not less than 100 hectares. Please put the order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u86	Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u87	The Committee on Environmental Policy suggests rejecting this standard. This is a question of standardity. This standard directly regulates forest management by permanent forest users of municipal property on lands of the natural and conservation fund and other conservation lands, namely: it prohibits such activities from being regulated in other categories. So that's what you're doing, it's narrowing it down a little bit. Therefore, the request does not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u88	I'm betting on the vote number 36 of the national deputy Eutushka. The committee is not supported. Please vote. [[14:24:35]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next line is 42. The national deputy of Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u89	In 42 rights it is stipulated in the bill that citizens and legal persons may own forests created by logging on land owned in the established order, as well as self-sustained areas, without limiting their area. I suggested in my opinion that citizens and legal persons may own forests created by logging in their own land, as well as self-sustained areas of a total area of up to three acres [5 ha]. This area can be increased in the case of forest inheritance under the law. Also, dear colleagues, please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u90	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u91	Colleagues, please pay attention, this is not actually a direct contradiction. contravenes article 56 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, directly restricts the possibility of acquiring land for logging. In turn, before the second reading, we removed the phrase "limits in the area" to which there were objections, taking into account 45 revisions. Therefore, the request to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u92	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 42 of the committee. It's not supported, it's rejected. Please vote. Edit the national deputy Eutuska. [[14:26:24]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 75 lashes, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u93	At 75 degrees, I asked for a definition of the scope of work on forest recovery and logging, forest protection from fires, protection from pests and diseases, and other forestry activities, as well as the order and manner in which they were carried out. Instead, the committee left the standard in paragraph 7, the words "protection from pests and diseases" excluded. Please also support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u94	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u95	Colleagues, there are sanitary rules that are responsible for protecting the land and protecting the forest fund. The question of how to prepare forest materials leads to the need for operational time to prepare them and the need to respond to them immediately. So this is a process that needs to be solved now, and it needs to be rejected, and it doesn't need to be delayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u96	Please put to the vote number 75 of the national deputy Eutushka. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:27:50]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes. And then we go to the vote. Please, five minutes, Timoshenko. And then the position there will have to be sounded under the transcript of the committee. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u97	Honorable national MPs, respected colleagues, are talking about the forests of Ukraine. What it says here actually says is that we have forests turning into private property de facto, as it says here. Private forests are clearly located here. And I think you need to determine whether you support private forest ownership or not. I want to tell you that forests in Ukraine today are completely accessible to people. They can go and rest there, fry as we've been told, hazelnuts, they can pick mushrooms there, they can rest there. If we're going to have a decision to make these forests private, I think we're just going to have a fundamentally different country, where ordinary Ukrainians just won't have a place where fences will stand and where to get a place to rest, we're going to have to ask someone for permission, and they're not going to give it to private owners. The proposed bill amends a very large number of bills: the Forest Code, Ukraine's laws on environmental protection, land protection, land protection, land dispossession, and very, very many different laws that are now being amended. I just want you to feel that, as small as they say, laws change, but the reality is that Ukrainians are the owners, like the people, of all the resources that the state has. This is clearly contrary to the Constitution. The local councils are empowered to agree on the limits for the use of forest resources in the production of forest materials and the use of by-products, except for forest areas with a total area of up to 100 hectares, which are on the land of all categories, except for the areas of the natural and natural resources. This does not correspond explicitly to the Constitution. There is no provision for the adoption of normative acts or decisions by public authorities and local self-government by consent or in the form of agreement/disagreement. It's all just, well, really at every step of the way anti-constitutional things. The inadmissibility is that the use of forest resources in forest materials in areas of up to 100 hectares will not be controlled at all. Who will distribute it, and who will operate there? The draft law also proposes article 47 of the Forest Code to be edited according to which forest management in all forms of ownership of a total area of 100 acres [100 ha] or more is mandatory for each of the permanent forest users and forest owners throughout Ukraine, where they are once every 10 years. So for 10 to 20 years, there's still practically de facto private ownership of forests. I just want you and I not to ignore the Constitution first, because since the beginning of your power, the Constitution has been broken so many times, including the Istanbul Convention, which has now been voted out that in principle the Constitutional Court, which your authority has destroyed, cannot even respond to this. Do you understand? And you continue to violate the Constitution of Ukraine in every bill. And so I just want to ask all the deputies who don't want the forests to stop being state-owned and belonging to all Ukrainian citizens not to vote in favour of this law. And I just want to say that this is another corrupt, lobbyist law that goes on during the war. And I hope that along with us 45 deputies will sign a petition to the Constitutional Court, which recognizes this law simply, well, insolently unconstitutional. And that's why I think that there is now the possibility and right of deputies to adopt or not to adopt anti-constitutional and anti-Ukrainian, lobbyist corruption laws. You don't accept them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u98	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. One minute, they need to read something under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u99	Colleagues, the decision of the Committee on Environmental Policy has been reviewed, inter alia, by a technical legal order to 208 articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land. In particular, 173 rights, including Bondarenko's authorship and other authors, should be taken into account, not in full, but in part. And the end. This is a bill that regulates these gaps that we've solved with you since the land market. Colleagues, for the first time, deal with the issues of self-sustaining forests by law, make it easier to create forests. And the question of private forest ownership is very clear in the Code of Law, and article 12 of the Code of Forests is in force. Colleagues, please pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on Bill 5650: draft Act amending certain legislation on forest conservation. The proposal to accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please vote. [[14:34:42]] For 273 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The law is passed in general. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, and we are moving on to the final one today, but very important, the draft Law on the Principles of State Anti-Corruption Policy for 2020-2024 (Law No. 4135). Dear colleagues, we have spoken. Will someone put their adjustments first? It won't. Will someone make adjustments for confirmation? Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! In line with this debate, which we have had with Parliament's leadership and the leaders of the MP factions and the MPs, I ask that the amendment No. 511 be confirmed, and in this way preserve the independence of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. In the event of failure, we are prepared to vote for the principles of State anticorruption policy in general. Thank you. Please place number 511 on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u103	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please give me a brief position on the 511th committee. And we have to vote for this amendment or whatever you decide. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u104	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The 511 amendment in the table is taken into account by the committee, precisely because it is 511 amendments and allows us to declare the intention to ensure the independence of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Without supporting this amendment, we will say that we do not intend to ensure the independence of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and do not intend to fulfil our obligations under the Euro-Integration Track. We can't let that happen. So I urge everyone to support the 511 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 511 amendment, is counted by the committee, but Taras Ivanovich asks for confirmation. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. 511 repairs. [[2:37:05]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Dear colleagues, we now put the entire bill to the vote. So I'm proposing to adopt, in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Principles. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Cabatchenko? We agreed we didn't. Kabachenko. All right, let's get Kabachenko then. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u106	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction, Secretary of the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy. Colleagues, it is very important to understand that by voting in favour of this bill and taking into account the importance of this issue, the "Fatherland" faction supports the second reading of this bill. We want to point out this: that we are now voting with you for the strategy. Strategy, it's being adopted by executives, and now we're giving strategies the status of the law. Once we have voted this strategy with you, it will be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, where the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, based on this strategy, will develop a programme for the implementation of this strategy. So it's very important that we all understand to ourselves that, despite the fact that we are with you as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u107	I'm sorry, come on, we agreed, five more minutes, four more minutes, please, Cabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u108	We're not going to be involved in this strategy. I mean, on the one hand, you and I are the authors of this strategy, and on the other hand, we won't be able to join you in implementing and implementing this strategy as a program. Secondly, it must also be understood that this strategy stipulates that none of the legislators, i.e. none of the Ukrainian national deputies, will be able to change the strategy without the involvement of NAMK. If we're talking about the independence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this is number 31, it's very clear that absolutely every single one of us, absolutely every deputy in Ukraine can and should have the initiative to make legislative changes to the law of Ukraine. Thirdly, the bill continues to introduce a trend of external administration, because there are organs in the barracks. Because there are commissions in the barracks that are made up of most of the international experts. And the quorum is considered only when most foreigners, but not Ukrainian experts, are present at the meeting of this competitive commission. And so this also needs to be removed from the text of the bill in an ideal situation. But it stays here, and we compromisely, we, the "Fatherland" faction, we compromised ourselves and we will support this bill. The following risks to the bill. It is impossible to assess the essence of change because of the general formulation and the absence of specific mechanisms of achievement. What does that mean? This means that the text itself prescribes very discretionary powers, but which organs are these discretionary powers, and how they will be implemented, to this day unknown, even by the executives of this strategy, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is also unknown. The project identifies priority areas and key problems for each of them, as well as strategic results to be achieved. At the same time, there is no description of the actions to be taken to achieve these goals instead of the "problem, purpose, action" structure proposed by the structure "problem, expectation of result". The proposed document does not have a strategy, regardless of the name of the strategy. However, the problems that currently exist in this area do not require additional documentation; they are not in society. And finally, from the text of the strategy and the proposed changes to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, it is seen that the measures themselves will be defined in the State Anti-Corruption Program. In this case, however, the Supreme Council simply removes itself from participating in their determination. So we call on absolutely all parties, MPs to support and vote in favour of an anti-corruption strategy, and then to exercise parliamentary control over the decisions that will be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in the form of an anti-corruption program. Thank you for your attention. The Fatherland faction supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Principles of State Anti-Corruption Policy for 2020-2024, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:13]] For 310 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u110	Honorary colleagues, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council sign the bills adopted today as a whole by the Supreme Council and send them to the President of Ukraine immediately for signature. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[14:43:50]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. We're not closing our plenary session. We believe in our victory in the Armed Forces. With us is the truth, God is with us! Glory to Ukraine!
