ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our orders to organize the work of the Supreme Council under military conditions and to organize the work of the Supreme Council in connection with the act of armed aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine on February 24, 2022, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. President Vladimir Alexanderovich Zelenski and President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Doda, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] We invite you to the Hall of the Honourable Presidents. Hello. [[Applause]] Colleagues, we've been training. Again. Dear colleagues, President Vladimir Alexanderovich Zelenski and President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Doda, are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to the Hall of Honorary Presidents. Hello. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, also participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in our good tradition, let's begin our work with the execution of the State Hymn Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine! Honorable national deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council, are the national anthem of the Republic of Poland. [[The National Anthem of the Republic of Poland]] [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, arrive at the end of the third month of armed aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine. The Ukrainian people and their heroic warriors, demonstrating a high spirit of warfare, courage, and will to win, continue to destroy the enemy and his technology in a wretched way. It is hard enough to believe that in Ukraine in the 21st century, the price of the most expensive — the life of its citizens, then the blood — is to choose the normal right to determine its own destiny. I ask you to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of our courageous defenders and protectors who have fallen into battles in defending Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity. We also honor the memory of our peaceful compatriots who died as a result of Russian military aggression. The Kingdom of Heaven and Everlasting Memory! [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear guests, Andrzej! Ladies and gentlemen! A guest in the house is God in the house. This is the Polish proverb that I welcome today in Kiev to our guest, our friend and brother, the President of Poland, Andrzej Dudu. [[Applause]] This national wisdom that every guest of yours is God's grace. And this is a worldview, where from the very beginning of the full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation, the war of Russia against Ukraine, millions of our citizens, Ukrainians: our women, our children, our elderly people, and everyone else, at whose door on February 24, quite another guest came. Guests whom we never wanted to accept and who have other proverbs and other national wisdom. Russia has been proving this for 88 days. 88 days of madness: Their missiles, bombs, shells, and missiles fly to residential homes, schools, hospitals, museums, theaters, temples, and even cemeteries. At the same time, without realizing it, on February 24, the Russian Federation destroyed something else, a kind of refuge, a refuge of past conflicts between Ukraine and Poland. They're gone. [[Applause]] One day, it became clear that all these contradictions do not have the power, when there is the power of such a threat, to threaten the survival of our peoples -- Ukraine, Poland, the peoples of Europe. Andrzej and I longed for a real understanding among our peoples and worked together on this refuge. We planned to build a memorial of reconciliation on the common border of Ukraine and Poland. But Ukrainian borders have crossed those who want other memorials, and those dedicated to peace are not at all. On February 24, it changed everything, changed our nations, changed our countries. Although this is not an accident, I don't know if our astronomers Drogobich, Copernicus, have studied this phenomenon, but stars are always made up of Ukrainians and Poles in the most difficult periods of eclipse. They unite tightly and become side-by-side despite past differences and nebulas. We're protecting a common universe for us called "Freedom and Independence" at a time when someone is barbarizing on a cosmic scale. That is the extent of understanding, interaction, friendship, and brotherhood between Ukraine and Poland. On February 24, we started writing a new volume of our history, an important story in common. The unity of our nations must last forever. It should never again be repulsed by hostility. Saint John Paul II called the burning of hatred between us a screaming, screaming anachronism unworthy of our two great nations. In various letters to our nations, the pontificate said: "The new millennium requires that Ukrainians and Poles not remain once again sad memories of the past by committing to build a better future for all. And let them look at each other with a view to reconciliation." So much bitterness and pain have been experienced by two of our nations in the past few decades. Let this experience serve as a cleansing, and let everyone be willing to put what unites above what divides, to seek what heals, so that together they can build a future based on mutual respect, brotherhood, brotherly cooperation, and genuine solidarity. Learn to appreciate, distinguish, and choose. Ukraine and Poland have chosen one way: this way. We learned to distinguish our enemies and to appreciate our friends, to appreciate each other, and, most important, to respect each other. The time had come for Jerzy Gedroitz and Bogdan Osadchuk, who wrote about Julius Slovak, who is a monument in Kiev, and Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko, who is a monument in Warsaw. Today, President Andrzej and I understand each other in half. Our parliaments, our governments, generally our peoples understand each other more than ever. And it doesn't matter, Cyrillic or Latin, no matter how we write "will" and "independence," it's important that these things are spoken equally by Ukrainians and Poles. [[Applause]] And they're also willing to protect them. Ukraine is doing this on its own front, protecting not only itself but Europe as a whole. Poles know, value, respect, and help Ukraine. Not out of politeness, but like brothers and allies who well remember Lech Kachinsky’s words about who could be next. And that doesn't mean fear, it means willingness to meet the enemy and give him back. That's why, for example, we share the same perception of sanctions policy against the Russian Federation. We know that we can't use half-measures when we need to stop aggression. And now Poland is one of the leaders not only in the support of our state, but also in the protection, and in the promotion of sanctions, which are just essential to force Russia to peace. The vast majority of Poles support the energy embargo from Russia. It's just one manifestation, but it's important. The important thing is that we see the same political front in this war. I believe that the leadership of Poland will help at the European level to confirm what our peoples already understand. The unity of our people must remain constant. Not now, not in the future, no one has the right to violate this unity -- not our politicians, not our enemy agents, not even members of the Eurowachan jury. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian and Polish nations have placed 12 points in each other today and forever. [[Applause]] And I want to thank you for supporting all the Poles. I want to mention from this rostrum everyone to hear every voivodeship, country and gmina whose support and assistance are felt in every region, in every city, village, in every community of ours. Thank you, Warsaw, Cracow. Thank you, Lodz, Poznan, Wroclaw. Thank you, Gdańsk, Biedgoszcz, Thorn. Thank you, Lyublin, Katowice, Opole, Szczecin, Gojove-Velikopolski, Zelena-Gura, Jeshuv. Thank you, Joshua. [[Applause]] Who knows, he understands. Whitey, Olstine, Kelce. These cities are the brothers of our cities: Kyiv, Lviv, Odessa, Harkov, Kremenchuk, Kremenchuk, Cremenchuk, Cherkas, Luhansk, Donetsk, Sum, Izuma, Starabilski, Mariupola. Almost all our cities are Polish brothers, and our brothers are our peoples. The sisters are our countries. We're family. [[Applause]] And there really should be no boundaries or barriers between us. The Ukrainian and Polish nations have not mentally divided for a long time, so we have agreed to do so in a two - way agreement. First, for joint border-mites control. [[Applause]] And later, the only already conditional border when Ukraine is a member of the European Union. [[Applause]] And I am confident that all the decisions needed first for the status of candidate for Ukraine and then for full membership will certainly be adopted, particularly through the long-standing protection of Ukraine's Ukrainian interests on the European continent. And I am grateful for your willingness, Andrzej, to make, along with the President of Slovakia, Zuzana Chaputova's visit to the European capitals with the aim of lobbying the issue of Ukraine's membership in the European Union, in countries that are said to be skeptics. Actually, they're not skeptics, they're future optimists. [[Applause]] That's how I see our shared very important task in this direction. In particular, I would like to thank the Polish Seima for the recently adopted Law on Assistance to Ukrainian Citizens. This is an absolutely unprecedented decision, by which our citizens, who have had to move temporarily, Andrzej, temporarily to Poland because of the aggression of the Russian Federation, receive almost the same rights and opportunities as Polish citizens. [[Applause]] Legal residence, employment, education, medical care, social security. It is a great step, a great gesture of a great soul, upon which only a great friend of Ukraine is capable. [[Applause]] And this step will not remain one-sided. I believe that in the near future we should submit a similar mirror bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For God's sake, so that Polish citizens don't ever need all these advantages in their lives under these conditions, under the conditions of war. But these laws have a great, great symbolic meaning, in my opinion, which shows that Ukrainians and Poles are related and equal. [[Applause]] And I'm sure the deputy corps, the honourable Ukrainian national deputies, will support this bill quickly, and I'm sure, by a majority of the votes. In addition, before that talk, I signed a decree that marks the special role of the Polish city of Jesúv. I have established a special honorary city rescuer for the city partners of our state who are doing the impossible today -- impossible to help us, to help our people, to help our army. On behalf of the entire Ukrainian people, I express great gratitude to the city of Jeshu, the first city to be rescued. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I also want to thank Polish cultural actors, sports actors, the clergy, ordinary ordinary people who support us, give us big concerts, go out to compete with Ukrainian tape or come from Poznan to Butch just to bake bread. I believe that Ukrainians and Poles will soon gather at one large table to share this bread, to share among themselves the most important feelings, a sense of peace, to share the taste of victory, the victory of Ukraine, the joint victory, and to toast yours and our freedom. Without free Ukraine, there can be no free Poland. Historians, I know historians often argue who was the first to say it, who was the author of this phrase, and I think we have resolved this issue: it is the will of the Ukrainian and Polish peoples. [[Applause]] Thank you, brothers! Together and to the end. [[Polish Expression]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, we have negotiated here to remove any misunderstandings between Ukraine and Poland, and we are ready to vote in Parliament to vote on the decision of the Ukrainian jury at Eurowachen. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, before I invite the Honourable President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Doudou, on behalf of Parliament, to thank you and to state that you are the first leader of a foreign state to speak directly in the Supreme Council of Ukraine during a full-scale Russian military invasion. On behalf of the Supreme Council, allow me to express my deep gratitude to the Polish people, to you personally as well as to the Government of the Republic of Poland for their firm and firm support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and your powerful assistance. You opened your homes and hearts to the Ukrainians. It is noteworthy that more than 3 million of our citizens have been found in the Republic of Poland, and the brotherly Polish people have responded sincerely to the plight that has come to Ukrainian homes by providing our fellow countrymen with housing, food, medical care, and financial support. Such noble works are never forgotten. Yesterday in Ukraine there was a European Day, and on this holiday we solemnly raised the flag of the European Union before the building of Parliament, talking about our common values, history and culture. The acquisition of full membership in the European Union is an omrian goal of the Ukrainian people. And we hope that in the near future the European Council will adopt a strategically important decision to grant Ukraine the status of candidate for membership in the European Union. We highly appreciate the active efforts of our country's friendly Poland to the desired goal, and we believe that the flag of the European Union will take its place in the near future and that we have already come up with a place for it in the Hall of the Supreme Council. So thank you. And may I invite the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Dudu?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u4	Volodymyr, dear friends! I have to speak now when the excitement has taken away my words. Thank you from the bottom of my heart, Volodymyr. Thank you. Thank you on behalf of Jeshuawa, his inhabitants, on behalf of Podkarpatja, the entire border with Ukraine in Poland, the inhabitants of the region. Thank you for all the Poles. Thank you for your famous words. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. "Ukraine has not yet died both glory and will. And we, brothers of the Ukrainians, will be smiled at by fate." "Polish has not yet perished as long as we live. What foreign violence has taken away from us, we shall take away the sheblad." Congratulations, brothers! Congratulations! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Dear Mr. President, dear friend Volodymyr! Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, all the dear guests who have arrived here! Dear Ukrainian friends, I am today in the beautiful proud Kiev, in the capital of a free independent democratic Ukraine, which has been a heroic resistance to barbaric aggression for almost 90 days. I was also here on February 23, just for a few hours before the Russian invasion began. I was here to support Ukraine, as well as its people at an extremely difficult time, and to assure them that Poland will never leave Ukraine alone. [[Applause]] I was also a little over a month ago with the presidents of the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, with your country's proven friends to talk about specific help for you. But on my visit, that visit to Kiev in the first half of April, I was also in Borodianca and Irpen. I saw with my own eyes the traces of crime, I saw the magnitude of human misfortune, and I saw the terrible trials, the pain, the destroyed houses, I saw the unimaginable tragedy of your people, I know what terrible acts were being done in Butch and in other cities by barbarian invaders. For this they must be held accountable to international courts. This must happen if the world is to be just and free indeed. But in spite of the immense magnitude of suffering, the destruction that the Ukrainian people face each day, the Russian invaders did not break you, they failed. And I deeply believe that they will never succeed. And I want to say it with all my might: the free world today has the face of Ukraine. As President of the Republic of Poland, I have the privilege of speaking before you, representatives of the Ukrainian people, in the Ukrainian Parliament in a city where the heart of an independent, democratic Ukraine is beating. This is a huge privilege and distinction, and I take it as a great gesture of friendship with Poland and the Poles, and thank you for that from the heart. Thank you, my friends. [[Applause]] Honourable deputies, all deserving guests, but above all, Volodymyr, honourable Mr. President, Mr. Head, the historic moment is that Ukraine and Poland have an incredible political chance, like two close-minded peoples of this part of Europe. Mr. President Volodymyr, you yourself said that there are over 80 million of us together and that together we are stronger. We can't take this chance. Dear Ukrainian friends, I would like you to know that your relatives, your wives, your parents, your children, your grandchildren -- these millions of people who had to leave Ukraine for Poland, also Poland, fleeing from the tragedy of the war are not refugees in our country -- are our guests. [[Applause]] I assure you that if you fight so bravely for the independence of your country, they will be safe and safe in Polish homes to return to their Fatherland after you have defeated the Russian invader. And I believe deep down, that's exactly what's going to happen. It is a kind of paradox that has created so much good in Ukraine. I believe that this new friendship between millions of Poles and Ukrainians will cause us to be good neighbors forever. It's a big historic opportunity and a big historical break. [[Applause]] Mr. President Volodymyr! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! I stand before the worthy Supreme Council of Ukraine as President of Poland, I stand here to thank you, I want to emphasize, I stand here to thank you. Until now, you've said that Poland has opened borders for three and a half million Ukrainian refugees and has become a home for over 2 million of them. Yes, that's true. You're saying that Poland has given Ukraine a huge number of tanks, BTRs, anti-aircraft complexes, weapons, ammunition worth almost $2 billion, that we keep repeating another, that Ukraine should have the support of the free world. Yes, that's true. That Poland was helping and was not afraid of the Russian Moscow threat. Yeah, that's true, too. [[Applause]] You're saying that Poland opened its border and gave the Ukrainians the same rights as the Poles and accepted your children's schools. And that's true, too. But we're not heroes, so you're these heroes. [[Applause]] I speak with pride because Poland has given support to Ukraine because we believed and believed in you. Many months before the outbreak of war, I was convinced that Ukraine would effectively cut off Russia, which would be like the hero of the poem of the great John Frank, as "the spirit that beats the body to battle is fighting for progress, happiness and will." [[Applause]] Thank you today for protecting Europe from the scourges of barbarism and new Russian imperialism, for showing the tyrants their place, that you have proved that the spirit of a free nation is stronger. Thank you, from the heart. You've shown, Ukraine, what your hymn says is a Cossack. You're big! [[Applause]] I am addressing your soldiers, the soldiers fighting in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Guard, the territorial defence units, the heroic defenders of Mariupol, also those who are now in Russian captivity, and those who are resisting the invader on the entire front line. You are heroes of Ukraine, but you are also heroes of Poland, Europe and the whole world. Thank you from the heart for this. Accept our deep respect, our deep respect. [[Applause]] Thank you from the heart on behalf of the Polish people, thank you for your opposition, your dedication, your courage, your love for freedom and your love for the Fatherland, it will be the source of your victory. We believe that deeply. Ladies and gentlemen! The enemies repeatedly tried to argue with us, to direct us against ourselves. Today, they're still trying, scaring Poles by Ukrainians and Ukrainians by Poles, using painful themes from our past painful, from our history. But they're not going to make it. We know too well these methods, we know that tension in Polish-Ukrainian relations serves exclusively foreign interests, and we, Poles and Ukrainians, are hampered. Our two nations are the ages of history, the long ages of history. History is beautiful, but at many times it is also very difficult. We have made many mistakes, many of which we have paid a high price. Pope John Paul II spoke about this in Ukraine in Lviv, the great proponent of Ukrainian-Polish peace and reconciliation. I remind him, "Let all of you, through the cleansing of historical memory, be ready to put above that that which unites, from that which divides together, to build together the future, as it is grounded in mutual respect, respect, brotherly fellowship, brotherly cooperation and authentic solidarity," said John Paul II in Lviv. Today, more than ever, we are working together to implement this message, and we must continue to implement it, based on truth and mutual respect. During my last visit to the Vatican, I recently placed two crowns on the tomb of St. John Paul II -- white and red and blue and yellow. And I prayed with my wife, with our fellow workers, with the Poles who were then in the Basilica of St. Peter, but also with the Ukrainians present for the free, sovereign, independent Ukraine, who would live with free, sovereign, independent Poland, for the happiness and mutual cooperation of our two nations, for us all, for your families, for peace, friendship and for the future. [[Applause]] Dear friends, for the safety of the future, the Ukrainian people have been struggling heroically with the Russian invader for three months. Many nations, many experts, have predicted that this would be Russia’s swift and victorious war, that Kiev would fall within three days. But they could no longer fail: they did not fall in either three days, 33 days, 53 days, or 83 days. And it won't fall! I have no doubt about it. [[Applause]] And when almost everyone, convinced that Kiev would fall, evacuated its embassies, Polish Ambassador Bartos Tzihotsky stayed in Kiev, was here during the bombings and during the attack on Kiev with you. And he's with me today. Thank you, Ambassador. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for being a worthy representative of our country here, where it is most necessary. [[Applause]] Thank you from the bottom of my heart. Ladies and gentlemen! The victorious battle for Kiev, the victorious battle for the Harks, the heroic defense of Mariupol will remain on the pages of history, no one will erase it. Ukraine has shown to the world that it is in a position to oppose imperial Russia, even though no one believed it, and this has happened. Russia has not achieved any of its strategic goals, suffered huge losses, and carried them all the time. It's the great success of the Ukrainian state, it's the great success of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it's the great success of the Ukrainian authorities, it's your great success, of the entire Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] The Western world was united around Ukraine. A great credit to the United States and the leadership of President Joe Biden. The real threat confirmed that strong American leadership is still needed by the world. Kiev is a place that clearly shows that we need more America in Europe, both military and economic. Sadly, in Europe recently there have been voices of concern, requiring Ukraine to submit to Putin’s demands. And I want to make it clear that only Ukraine has the right to decide its future, only Ukraine has to decide its own. The world, the international community, must demand that Russia end aggression and leave the country completely, stop trampling on international law. There can be no negotiations and decisions behind Ukraine’s back. Nothing about you without you is an iron principle, you have to stick to it. [[Applause]] Today it's not you, it's the Western world that's testing the reliability, the probability that its values mean anything. If, for the sake of the holy tranquillity of economic interests or political ambitions, Ukraine is sacrificed at least one centimeter of its territory and its sovereignty, it will be a huge blow not only to the Ukrainian people, but to the entire Western community, I have no doubt here. [[Applause]] This is the time and your future will show that the foundations of the Western world, such values as democracy, human rights, solidarity only sound great, but in the face of harsh reality, they don't matter very much, do they? We cannot allow these words to be empty. We can't let that happen. It is a great responsibility for the West to Ukraine or a great responsibility of the international community to your people and your state, I have no doubt here. After Butchi, after Borodjanka, after Mariupol there can be no return to business as usual with Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, the presidents, the prime ministers, the honourable deputies of all the parliaments of the world, there can be no turning back to business as usual. An honest world cannot do this and move to the order of the day over crime, over aggression, over the trampling of basic principles. Dear friends like Poland, we have long warned Poland against the imperial incursions of Putin and Russia, against the desire to rebuild the Soviet Union's influences, perhaps the royal Russia, before it depended on Russian energy carriers. We said it was essentially a weapon that could be used against Europe against the peoples of Europe. We spoke, but unfortunately we were not listened to, ignored by our warnings, accused of Russophobia. Today the world quietly agrees that we were right, but it's a very bitter satisfaction, believe me. President Lech Kaczynski, my professor, my teacher, my president and a great friend of Ukraine, spoke of the threat from Russia on many occasions of sacred memory. I saw him fighting closely to accept Ukraine, Georgia, to NATO. It has just passed, 14 years since the Bucharest summit, where these historic decisions could have been made to give Ukraine a plan of entry, a plan for NATO membership. If we had listened to President Lech Kaczynski, there would probably be no aggression in 2014 and there would be no war today, there would be no great destruction and no human suffering. History would have gone differently. It must be a great reproach for some European leaders, so it is important that today we do not repeat the same fatal errors that lead to such misery and suffering. You can never let that happen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, Poland has supported and will support Ukraine. I will not rest personally until Ukraine becomes a member of the European Union to the fullest extent of the word. [[Applause]] This is my great dream as President of Poland and as a man so that we can build a future together. This is very important not only for us, but for future generations, for our children, for our grandchildren. So what's going to be the coming years of our part of Europe, how people can live here, I think they're going to be free, happy and build their future and develop their future, and I believe in it deeply. I want to remind you that this is Poland as the first state to recognise Ukraine's independence in 1991. In 1992, we signed our first presidents of then independent states, signed a treaty on good neighbourliness, mutual neighbourliness. But today I think it's safe to say that the historical moment has long been shaping our relationship, these are the facts that I've been talking about and that no one can deny. Today is the time, in my profound opinion, for a new Polish-Ukrainian tract, a good-neighbourhood treaty, a tract that takes into account all the things that we have built together in our relations in at least the last few months. Today’s war has also shown what is not the best network of roads, railways, infrastructure between our nations. It's time to make up for this delay. The Polish-Ukrainian border should unite, not divide. That should be our great goal today. Let one of the permanent signs of our relationship be the rapid railway connection between Kiev and Warsaw. We'll build it together. And I believe we're going to do it in the next few years. And as I assured you just now, as Poland will be actively supporting Ukraine on its way to membership in the European Union, and now to candidate status with all its might, but also to full membership in the EU. Because Ukraine’s free and democratic place is in a united Europe. I know that, but you know it. And I am convinced that this will be your society, your people in the future, that this decision will be made by the Ukrainian people, that it will be expressed when the time is right. [[Applause]] I believe that we will work together as soon as possible. Personally, it is also very important for Ukraine to join the Trimor initiative, which unites the countries of our region of members of the European Union. This initiative with Ukraine will be much stronger. We want to maintain your energy independence, and we want to participate actively in rebuilding your homeland from the destruction of war. You need special funds to rebuild. I'll talk about it in the near future with world leaders during the Davos summit. But we remember that Ukraine must be rebuilt primarily at the expense of the aggressor. Such requirements of historical justice. At the expense of the Russian Federation, which is coming to Ukraine, which is destroying a house in Ukraine that is destroying the Ukrainian industry that is stealing Ukrainian grain that is killing people in Ukraine, Ukraine should be rebuilt from military reparations. For this purpose, the Russian currency reserves that are frozen in Western banks must be assigned primarily, and they are huge, huge. It was Russia that destroyed Ukraine, and Russia has to pay for it. There's no doubt about it. And I believe that no one honest in the world has such doubts. The obvious thing is who the aggressor is, who has been attacked and whose land is destroyed. Dear friends, during our conversation with Vladimir, with your President, we often mentioned the Polish-Ukrainian Euro-2012. Maybe someone will be surprised that I'm talking about this here at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But remember those happy days there, remember that huge action there, these huge investments that we were making at the time, this joy that was brought into our societies by what we were able to do, that we had a big project together. I deeply believe, dears, that there is not one such project before us, that we will continue to implement huge European and world projects, as well as sports projects, but also others. Ukraine wins war, overcomes hardships, and will be rebuilt even better than before Russian aggression. I'm sure of it! Long live free, sovereign, independent Ukraine! Long live Poland!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u5	[[Polish Expression]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the Parliament for their participation in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, we're taking our seats. Thank you again, Mr. Andrzej. [[Polish Expression]] Mr. President. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 59, 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Calling of the Ukrainian Deputies Group, a short title: "Delivery of Ukraine", made up of 17 national deputies. The head of the Ukrainian "Resurrection of Ukraine" group elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Abramovich Igor Aleksandrovič and Jefimov Maxima Viktorovich. Welcome. Thank you. Let's get to work. During the Conciliation Council, we agreed that there would be talks today from MP factions and groups, from time to time for up to three minutes. Requesting permission to sign up for an appearance from the rostrum. Thank you. Please, Voice. Who's with the Voice? Juršin Jaroslav Ivanovich, please. Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I welcome and thank our Armed Forces of Ukraine that we will soon be able to gather in this room and adopt the necessary bills. Yes, indeed, what's most important today is the continuation of the state of war, and we're going to be dealing with it, it's a question that concerns our economy. But there are things that, unfortunately, have not yet been found in the Supreme Council. What is it? If our Armed Forces are doing everything they can to destroy an external enemy, then you and I must do everything we can to help our Armed Forces to fight their enemies inside. For one thing, they are collaborators and racist influences both in politics and elsewhere. What do we have with you right now? Yes, you and I have banned Russian parties, the pro-Russian parties. But we already had a period when Russian agents of the Communist Party of Ukraine were banned, which had just been eliminated, or the Party of the Regions. Our task is to find mechanisms so that members and leaders of these parties will never again be able to be in power. Yes, you and I have passed laws that allow you to charge money for racists and collaborators. I very much hope that this law will be signed by the President, because all his proposals have been taken into account with you. Now the question is to put this law into practice as soon as possible. But there is still a very important third component, which, unfortunately, is not closed to you at all. These are Russian influences in the ecclesiastical and cultural spheres. Regrettably, the Moscow Church is still operating legally in Ukraine. Yes, it's not in accordance with the law, and now it seems to be positioning itself as the Ukrainian Church. But Moscow’s poppies continue to betray the position of Ukrainian fighters. Moscow’s poplars continue to try to review our cultural achievements and even call Tomos what led to war. Although it was Russian agents, such as the Moscow Patriarchate, that led to war. There are still no sanctions accepted with us, calls for sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a delegation of the Italian Republic, headed by an interparliamentary group of friends from Ukraine, Ugo Kapellacchi. We welcome our Italian colleagues, thank them. The delegation is in the guest room of the Supreme Council. Welcome to the Supreme Council. Thank you very much, Grazie, for supporting the Ukrainian people in the Italian Republic. Thank you. [[Applause]] Next up, I'm focusing on the "Platform for Life and Peace" MP group, please. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, today, there are 23 draft laws and regulations. Our MP's "Platform for Life and Peace" group will certainly support these draft laws and these legislative initiatives, such as those that, to date, are somehow able to support the economy and the social sphere. But we would certainly like to highlight and update those software-friendly macro-economic and monetary models and policies that are now capable and will have the greatest integrated socio-economic impact. First of all, it's the restructuring of government debt and the debt policy of the country. This is an extremely important issue, even though by the end of March this year the government-guaranteed debt of Ukraine was almost $97 billion. And the budget for this year according to Appendices 2 and 3 provides that 576 billion dollars, that's 32 percent of all expenses we're going to pay off the service of government debt. I am convinced that this year the government will have to take all the appropriate steps to ensure that these costs remain in the national economy and are accumulated for all these processes. The other one. This is, of course, the State Budget Sequester. This is an extremely important question, even though the fact that 456 billion dollars is the marginal amount of government budget deficit this year. If you have a budget ratio, that's 25 percent. And that's why it's extremely important today to prioritise the spending portion of the government budget, which is aimed at overcoming the negative effects in the destroyed regions and many other things. Third. It's inhibiting and slowing down the inflationary debasing spiral. Because we see with you the negative result of devaluation of the national monetary unit, where the value gain and the cost of the produced product goes. There is a negative trade balance, resulting in an increase in the cost of the national monetary unit, more specifically its cost, and an increase in the price index for goods and services. For this government, first and foremost, it is necessary to maintain and implement state price regulation for goods of primary necessity. I would also like to point out briefly that the very important question, this fourth question, is the write-off of debts for housing services for the most vulnerable citizens of Ukraine, those who have suffered, whose homes have suffered for today, this debt has to be written off. And the fifth and most important. It's support for micro, small and medium-sized businesses. It's going to have the cumulative maximum effect on the national economy, because working businesses are paying taxes and assemblies, it's an internal consumer market, jobs and so on. So we will continue to support those initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u10	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, "European Solidarity", Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, first of all, we thank our soldiers on behalf of the Ukrainian people and on behalf of the peoples of the world, who gave a convincing witness to President Poland's statement. They heroically protect our people, our country, Europe, and the world. I would like to point out that the issue of national security is much more multifaceted. And I'd like to stop at the moment of unlocking the Ukrainian economy, the Ukrainian ports, restoring supply to the world markets of Ukrainian grain, exports and food products, because this is one of the main currency arrivals in the Ukrainian budget, it means financing the army, and it's one of the world's main sources of food. Exports of more than 22 million tons of Ukrainian grain will bring billions of dollars of foreign currency. And Putin is how mad he has gone in the war against Ukraine, which he certainly can't win, which threatens the world with nuclear war, chemical, bacteriological, and now he wants to put the world on its knees before hunger. Moscow has great experience in organizing famines. But if this has been done in Ukraine, today it wants to be distributed worldwide, and a fifth of the world’s population faces the threat of hunger — Africa, Asia, Latin America. For this, Russia is doing what has declared the island of Snakes part of its sovereignty and the Black Sea part of Russia's inland waters, to which we want to draw the attention of Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania and other NATO countries. We must immediately convene a special session of the UN General Assembly to discuss the world food crisis. This is a direct result of Russian aggression. Four options to be united. Option one. The UN proposal to block Russia, the trading fleet, if Ukraine is not unlocked. The other one. The security of the trading fleet must be guaranteed by NATO convoys with strikes in response. Third. The supply of antiaircraft, anti-shipment weapons for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which it will unlock. And the fourth. Dry ports on the western border. This is a scenario where Ukraine, NATO and Europe have to win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u12	The hero of glory, Peter Alexiovich! Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, dear friends, Ukrainian society! Three months of war, wars that continue and know when the end will be, this war, which the world and Europe have not seen or remembered since 1945, has been the result of the destruction of objects, victims, and atrocities of the aggressor. You know, there's no difference between totalitarian structures, whether this totalitarianism has a sickle and a hammer, whether this totalitarianism has a swastika, or if it has a Z-letter, it's all totalitarianism, which is equal to Nazism. And the European community, and the civilized world, as in the case of Nazi Germany, must do everything to eradicate this totalitarianism from the face of the earth, because it contradicts civil choice, morality, culture, spirituality and human progress. What I'm saying is, we don't know how long this war is going to take, but we need to be able to predict the development of Ukrainian statehood from the point of view of its survival, in terms of economics, energy, in terms of the social status of our society. Today's historic day is an address in the Ukrainian Parliament of President Andrzej Duda of Poland. I think it's a performance that's going to go into history. You know, without an independent Ukraine there can't be an independent Poland. No one said more strongly in terms of Ukrainian-Polish relations, as those words came from the mouth of the great philosopher Jerzy Gedroitsa, Poland. And I think today's visit to President Duda only confirms that. Without Poland's support, our war would be more difficult for us. The Poles became our brothers and sisters, and this was emphasized today. This is a sacred war for us, and it will last as long as it takes to conquer good over darkness and evil. That is why we thank the Poles today. We thank you today for this visit by the first President of the country in the context of the war in the Ukrainian Parliament. And for today, we want to say on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament the following: [[Next expression in Polish]] Praise the Ukrainian soldiers! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, this is an air raid. I ask that according to the markings that are posted there, everyone go down to the premises that are foreseen for this period. I think we'll meet in the hall right after the air raid is over. People's deputies please go down to the shelter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u16	Airtight. Request to go down. We're going to report continuation through factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. Please, "Serve of the People," Mezentsev Maria, three minutes. We continue to perform from factions. There's a "Serial of the People" faction, Mezentsev Maria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u18	Thank you, colleagues. May I have your attention, please? Because it is the 9th call of Parliament that will enter the history not only of Ukraine, but of the whole subcontinent of Europe. My friends, you and I are working together today as a team in Ukraine. On June 24, as President Zelenski said, we look forward very much to 27 member countries to meet in Brussels at the European Council in order to grant the status of candidate to the state of Ukraine, which historically, financially, technically, politically fully meets all the criteria. And in accordance with Article 49 of the EU Treaty, two respondents have been presented in a historically short time, which has been accepted by the EU government, i.e. the European Commission, and we expect literally 10 days from now a positive outcome to which those countries mentioned by President Duda, as those who understand us less because of the geographical distance, will not historically be as close to us as the Polish State, for example, has entered very difficult times. Friends, today Ukraine is at the heart of an energy crisis, an energy issue, and more specifically, its solution. No State of the European Union has joined the EU's energy system in a time of full-scale armed aggression against it. This was done by Ukraine on the 4th day of the Russian war against us. In 48 hours. [[Unheard]] We are already exporting electricity to the EU without importing anything from Russia or Belarus. Friends, we're also in the middle of security, which is also related to the agrarian sphere, food safety. On what basis was the EU project based in 1952? Control coal and steel so that there will be no more wars in Europe and feed all the starving Europe. We've always been a grasshopper, and we're gonna stay. We are helped by our partners to ensure that this bread is not cut off, but delivered to those who buy it in a responsible way. These are our European partners. My friends, you and I have become historical legal officers regarding the tribunal. The ISS International Court is dealing with war crimes. And who will consider the crime of armed aggression, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine’s sovereign territory in all directions? I thank all the factions, the delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, who, a month ago, launched the International Tribunal, which this Thursday was voted by the European Parliament, which is working the Presidential Office together with the entire team and is supported by President Zelenski. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u19	Thank you, the word is given to Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, the "Trust" group, and then Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev. And let's move on to the issues. People's deputies please be invited to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u20	Dear Sir, my fellow Members, the 88th day is the war and heroic defense of Ukraine. We could literally celebrate Europe’s Day in Ukraine yesterday. But all our celebrations in the state stopped on the winter morning of February 24. Since that day, the world has divided in half into those who actively support Ukraine and those who try to maintain conditional neutrality or even the status of formal friendship with the aggressor country. The signing by the President of the United States of America of land-lysis has become a historic event. Ukraine is expected to receive $40 billion in financial assistance. We expect another tranche of 500 million euros from the European Union. Assistance also comes from Britain, Canada, Poland, the Czech Republic, the Baltic States, and other countries. Our citizens have found refuge in all parts of the world, for which we are certainly grateful to the international partners. We're waiting for the Patriot air defence system to close the sky. Because if our military didn't let Kyiv, the Harks, move the enemy north, carry out active hostilities in the south and east, our country can only protect the air defence systems from missile attacks. Dozens of foreign politicians and diplomats have visited cities that have become heroes in this war, including Irpine and Butch. The daytime routine of all the world’s operations begins with events in Ukraine. Newspaper stoves constantly publish information about our country. Today, everyone has learned that Ukraine is an independent subject of international politics, a strong European state. First of all, the strong spirit, the Armed Forces, continues to defend the freedom of the entire world. And Ukraine remains a forpost for all of Europe. Blockages of Ukrainian ports and sea routes make it impossible to export our agricultural products. Ukraine is unable to export about 100 million tons of grain by blocking its ports. This is because Russia has stolen about 400,000 tons of grain from our country. The UN report notes that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine poses a threat to international food security. Term assistance is now needed by some 400 million people, and food prices have risen disastrously. In the 21st century, there was to be no place for war or famine in developed technologies and the high status of cultural and diplomatic missions. And if our country stops the first problem in its territory, Ukraine stops, then the second one should not be allowed by every country in the world. And to do that, we need to increase the pressure on the aggressor to stop war and hunger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. And then, dear colleagues, let's move on to making decisions. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u22	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable People's Deputies! Now, for Ukraine, for the world, it's a historic day, because President Zelenski and Duda's speech in the Ukrainian Parliament as President of Poland says that the level of interstate relations is high. In both the Ukrainian and Polish people, it's not just a common story, it's a shared experience and a shared future project. We remember the Munich treachery that hurt the Polish people. We remember the Babylonian tragedy when the Ukrainians were empathizing with the Poles. But now we are grateful that the Polish people, as a true neighbor and as a good relative, have shown how they feel about how they can help. We remember those difficult days and nights when tens of thousands of Ukrainians were walking to the Polish border, waiting for support and assistance. And they got it. Both honor and gratitude to the common Poles, the Polish authorities for their support and support of the Ukrainians. Today, millions of Ukrainian women, children who receive support, and work continue to be in Poland. Our military is receiving professional medical care there. And for that, the honor and praise of the Polish people and the authorities. We should also talk about the fact that today President Zelenski and President Duda of Poland have announced a very pleasant news about joint border control with the Ukrainian border service, customs and border guards of Poland. This is an example of how our legal guardians will protect the border during the future when Ukraine will become a full member of the European Union, the European Community. The "Fatherland" team today decided to refer to the Kiev City Council to determine the name of one of the streets in honor of the capital of Poland. Warsaw Street should be in the capital of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! And the glory of Poland!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u23	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Showtime's up. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the vote is conducted by the national MPs by means of a sensory button. So let's make a signal vote, as we always do, in order to predict the results of today's vote. People's deputies please take their seats, prepare for the signal vote. Dear colleagues, are you ready? I remind you to press the "Z" green button and hold the sensor together until the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to conduct a vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:27:14]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The list of questions that have been previously agreed upon and given to you by the Conciliation Council is now under consideration. And so, first question. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 7389 first. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has approved the Presidential Decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. According to section 31 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 20 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law, the President of Ukraine, on 17 May, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law (registration number 7389) approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the military status in Ukraine. You've been given the right materials electronically. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is considered by the Supreme Council without voting on its inclusion in the agenda in the first reading and adoption of the law as a whole. In accordance with part two of article 113 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the proposal to discuss the draft with a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, we are voting on a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. [[14:28:52]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council meeting, we said that we were talking, but let's do this: a brief report by Alexia Mechaslavovich and then only the factions that want to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm in, but we have factions that have explicitly stated what they want. Guess what. Alexy Mechaslavovich, please have two minutes. The report is given to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Alexia Mechaslavovich Danilov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear friends! Good afternoon, Mr. Head! The aggression of the Russian Federation, which lasts for 30 years in our country, is now an active phase of February 24. You've made three decisions, we've been entering, we've been continuing the military state for a month. Unfortunately, the end and the end of these things are not yet seen. Moreover, the upsurge on the front for today in the territory of Donetsk, Lugansk, in the territory of the Hersonian region, in fact, our intelligence, which reports every day, expects that in the coming days, in the coming weeks and months, we will not be cute. I don't refer to those who said it would be over in April. The enemy is powerful. The enemy is presumptuously doing his job. Unfortunately, thanks to those in the territory of our country, because of their agency, which is very and very, very sadly, a lot, and therefore, to think that we can handle this incursion in a month, is to deceive ourselves. The Ukrainian Security and Defence Council, at the suggestion of our military, has decided to continue, propose, for 90 days, to continue this military state. The decision was made unanimously. The President's decree is signed. I ask you very much to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u25	Thank you, Alexy Mechaslavovich. Dear colleagues, we agreed, one faction only wants to speak. The "ES" faction, who's it gonna be, please? Irina Volodymyrna's character. Thank you, Alexy Mechaslavovich. Have a seat. Take your place. Thank you. And the rest of the factions don't insist. Then we go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u26	The people of Ukraine, of course, voted every time for the continuation of the state of war, for the continuation of the mobilization, are the difficult decisions behind which the fates of specific people lie. We are well aware of the subtle and powerful Ukrainian enemy and how the Ukrainian State must unite in order to repay him. And it's very good that today the authorities are talking about the fact that the cappicious moods don't answer the questions of time, because the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which are heroically holding the entire defense today, have to get our enhanced support, funding and, of course, joint work on the diplomatic front in order to have more weapons, more weapons and more weapons. Of course, we thank our partners, who today are handing over weapons not only of the old pattern but of the Nazi cures. And obviously, we want to hear from the authorities, too, a very clear message that Ukraine is moving not only to the EU but also to NATO. Because NATO alone is actually a guarantee of security outside, and the guarantee of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity is exclusively the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And you know, 150 heroes of Ukraine have already been named hero of Ukraine for these three months. More than seven hundred and a half thousand soldiers were rewarded for their heroism. But why do we not know their names? Why do we actually have natives of all regions involved in the unity marathon, but they don't tell us about these heroes? That's why our faction requires that the national unity marathon contain the heroes of Ukraine, the heroes of "Azova." And I'm asking you to give a big round of applause right now to mention Saintess Palamar, Sergey Wolinski, Dennis Prokopenko, and their entire team that we have to talk about every day as a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 5 of the Law on the Legal regime of the State of War, the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 7389) on the approval of the Decree of the President of Ukraine on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine is adopted. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:35:00]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. We have the next bill, according to paragraph 31. This is Bill 7390. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has approved the Presidential Decree on General Mobilization. According to article 85, paragraph 31, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 20, of the first article of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the Law on Mobilization and Mobilization of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law (registration number 7390) on the approval of the decree of the President of Ukraine on the continuation of the general mobilization period. You have been provided with the appropriate materials. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is dealt with by the Supreme Council without voting on its inclusion in the agenda in the first reading and adoption of the law as a whole. In accordance with part two of article 113 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to discuss the draft with a reduced procedure. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[14:36:24]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it's the same format, if you don't mind, because factions are, but they insist. Look, I'm in, but there's a faction that doesn't want to go like this. Irina Volodymyrna, wait. Irina Volodymyr, you, not Daniel. First I'm giving Alexia Mechaslavovich, and then you're going to perform. Please. The word is given to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Alexia Mechaslavovich Danilov. Please, Alexia Mechaslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u28	With the aim of providing an immediate response to the dangers that today are on the side of the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support Presidential Decree No. 65 on General Mobilization, which was voted for 90 days at a time. We have the deadline of 24 May and 90 days, to continue the overall mobilization, dear friends. There is a proposal for the Supreme Council to support such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexia Mechaslavovich. Dear colleagues, you are still insisting on your speech. Let's do it if the rest of the factions don't have performances. Irina Volodymyrna, please proceed to the vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u30	My fellow Members, I would like to remind you of a very important thing that the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and we sincerely thank the Chief guarantor of Ukraine's independence, today defend not only Ukrainian territories, but Ukraine civilised with free media and a strong parliament, and it is with you that our task is to protect parliamentaryism. Our faction truly thanks every man, man and woman, who takes up arms and defends weapons in the hands of Ukraine. We worship all who gave their most precious lives. We would like to remind you once again that this House has 150 Ukrainian heroes on its shoulders who have won this award, 7 000 500 other medals awarded today, orders for what they are fighting, and you know the names of these people are not in the "one marathon." There's no, by the way, in the council network and in our colleagues who have taken up arms today and are fighting for Ukraine. And our faction would like to thank the representative of the "Slug of the People" Yegor Chernev, the representatives of the "Golos" – Andrew Sharaskin, Roman Kostenka, Lozinski. The representatives of European Solidarity, who have taken up arms today, Andrew Parubia, Jani Zinkevich, Mikhail Zabrodski, Mikhail Bondar, Vladi Váterovich, if I haven't named anyone, I'm sorry. But these colleagues, who have also joined the ranks of the terrorists, are protecting the country in the same way today. And I think you and I should talk more about those who are next to our military, with our terror standing and protecting the country. Thank you very much. I think it's very appropriate if we're talking more about heroes in a single phone today. Not those who talk to the country in the rear, but those who defend the country with guns in their hands. Glory to Ukraine and glory to the Armed Forces of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. According to part 31 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine put to the vote for adoption, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law of Ukraine (registration number 7390) on the approval of the Presidential Decree on the continuation of the general mobilization period. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:40:57]] For 315 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Alexy Mechaslavovich, for your part in the work. Dear colleagues, we have further discussed with factions leaders, there is now a proposal to quickly vote on those laws that we have defined without discussion. We vote, we call and we go, okay? We meant no discussion of 7214, this is a re-examination of the President's proposals. Here's the bill. One second. Next, I'm sorry, report back to the interim commission of inquiry. Next, a project on making changes to article 30 prime. The Child Protection Act. Next, 7395, "The Final and Transitional Positions" on amending certain legislative acts to improve the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations. 7361, this is about making changes to chapter II of the Ukrainian Act on Change to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Functioning of the National Agency for Quality Assurance of Higher Education. 7293, about vocational (professional) education, change. 7313, this is "For Medical Devices" for restricting the circulation of medical devices in Russia, Belarus. And that's it, and then we'll go in the order we have. Okay? Then I'm starting, my dear colleagues, we're starting our consideration of 7214, this is the proposal of the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the proposals of the President of Ukraine, "Prohibition of the propaganda of the Russian Nazi totalitarian regime, armed aggression of the Russian Federation as a terrorist state against Ukraine, symbolising the military invasion of the Russian Nazi totalitarian regime into Ukraine" (registration number 7214) are proposed for your consideration. The President's corresponding proposals have been made to you electronically and can be consulted on the official website of the Supreme Council. We agreed to consider the matter without discussion. We move on to the vote on the proposals proposed by the President of Ukraine. Three proposals were made by the President. As we said, first three proposals, then the law as a whole. I'm betting on the President's vote under number one. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:28]] For 309 Offer accepted. The President's motion under number two is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:47]] For 311 Decision taken. The President's motion under number 3 is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:07]] For 312 Decision taken. Offer accepted. So, honourable national MPs, all of the President's proposals are accepted, so let's move on to voting on the law as a whole. In accordance with article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine of the Law on the Prohibition of the Propaganda of the Russian Nazi Totalitarian Regime, the Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation as a State Terrorist against Ukraine, a symbol of the military invasion of the Russian Nazi totalitarian regime into Ukraine (registration No. 7214). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:54]] For 313 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. That's what we had the President's offer. Thank you. Next we have a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of cases and causes of violations of the rights of the child during the decentralization of child protection powers, the reform of the institutional care and upbringing system, the realization of the right of the child to family education and adoption, the development (modernization) of social services (draft No. 7073). Dear colleagues, we're voting right now. I put to the vote for adoption as a whole the draft Ordinance (Registration No. 7073) on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of cases and causes of violations of the rights of the child during the decentralization of child protection powers, the reform of the system of institutions of institutional care and upbringing, the realization of the right of the child to family education and adoption, the development (modernization) of social services. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:15]] For 310 Decision taken. The report of the interim commission of inquiry is made public. The authorization of the reports of the interim commission of inquiry shall be terminated in accordance with part seven of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. The next thing we know, we don't have a discussion of 7,200. This is a draft law amending article 30-1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act on the representation of some children in the conduct of war in Ukraine. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we had no discussion, no amendments. So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing to adopt, in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 30-1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act concerning the representation of some children during the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. Bill No. 7200. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:47:28]] For 307 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Yes, another Bill 7395. 7395, one second. Dear colleagues, as we prepare, we need to make a decision, first: to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion of Bill 7395 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:48:41]] For 304 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was a decision on the basis of the whole as well. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending paragraph 1 of Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the improvement of the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations (project No. 7395). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:49:21]] For 301 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general, congratulations. Next we have draft Law 7361, this is the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. We need to put this issue in the order of the day session first. Dear colleagues, please vote, 7361, inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[14:50:02]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we also agreed on a basis. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine "On the Amendment of Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education" (7361). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:37]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 7293, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Vocational (Professional) Education on specific aspects of the training of skilled workers in conditions of martial law and economic recovery. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[14:51:14]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we had an offer to accept him as the basis. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Vocational (Professional and Technical) Education on specific aspects of the preparation of skilled workers in conditions of martial law and economic recovery (Law No. 7293). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:51:50]] For 306 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to cut proposals (amendments) and prepare for the second reading (legislative registration number 7293). Please vote. [[14:52:19.]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 7313, no discussion. It's a draft law on introduction. The Committee's conclusion, right? Now, just a second. Dear colleagues, it's a second reading, isn't it? This is the second reading. What's that, colleagues? Under the phonograph, under the stenogram. Yes, please. Please, once again, 7313, Mikhailo Borisovich under the transcript and we continue to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u32	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, if you please, I will only announce the end under the stenogram so that I do not take the time. At its meeting on 22 May, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the final drafting of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on the Restrictment of Medical Equipment, which is located in the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus (Registration No. 7313) on second reading and generally as a law with technical law. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I put it to the vote? Dear colleagues. Wait a second. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, taking into account the decision of the committee that has been announced, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on the Restrictive Circumstances of Medical Devices, which is located in the territory of the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus (project number 7313). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:54:43]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, look, there's some information, I understand, so that. Who's gonna sound it? Dear colleagues, can 7337 be voted on without discussion? It's about pensioners, isn't it? Dear colleagues, I would then like to propose, first, to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Act amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons" on improving the payment of pensions (registration number 7337). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[14:55:57]] For 293 Decision taken. The other one. I'm going to take this as a shortcut. Let's not cancel out, let's just give it as a base and as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an offer to take it as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Julius Volodymyrically, we had this arrangement when the factions were taking us in. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you don't. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the proposal on the ground. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons on the Improvement of Pension Payment Order (registration number 7337). Please vote. [[14:57:04]] For 292 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, since we only accepted it as a basis. I'm willing to cut the line to the second reading by 7337. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:57:29]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have the ARMA. Maybe we should vote on it, too. Oh, no? Okay. Audio books? Let's do the audio books. Now. In general, yes, someone might say that. What's the number? Dear colleagues, 5876. Dear colleagues, he's been put into the order of the day session, so we're only voting on the basis as a whole. Arthur, come on, let's put it on. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept as a basis and as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Tax Exemption from Tax Added on Transactions in the Supply of Ukrainian Audioicbooks (registration number 5876). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:58:48]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. We have, I think, four GNI denunciations. Let's not discuss it on such a day, bury them all and put a dot. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please, come on, time. I just got a note from you to announce the break. Dear colleagues, I'm happy to compromise in this room, we're all voting for 145, 2 minutes of Windy. Is there any objection? Everyone else is voting like that. Let's start with 145. Dear colleagues, I would like to make an offer now to consider 0145, this is the draft law on the withdrawal of the Treaty on the Emancipation of the Memory of Courage and Heroism of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. I'm asking you to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[15:00:10]] For 277 Decision taken. As we agreed, 2 minutes is Wind, and then all denunciations and ratifications are voted on without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, European Solidarity supports the withdrawal of this agreement as well as the withdrawal from the rest of the agreements within the SND, which has been going on for the past five years to implement the decisions of the SNA and the President's decree. In this particular case, it is a treaty that Ukraine signed and ratified, apparently in the days of Yanukovic, whose purpose is to spread Russian Communist propaganda about World War II, a propaganda that is fully used by modern Russia in the modern war against Ukraine. Ukraine's exit from this agreement is another step towards Ukraine's complete release from Ukraine's dangerous Russian occupation. But an even more important step on this path is to change to Ukrainian legislation, which still anchors Stalin-putinian Victory Day May 9 as a national holiday and a weekend. These changes are provided for in Bill 7297 by various factions. He sets May 8, the Day of Victory over Nazism in World War II, and allows May 9, along with all Europe, to celebrate Europe’s Day. It is a shame that a completely unfounded blockade has not yet resolved this issue a month ago. However, nothing prevents Parliament from considering and adopting it as a whole, as recommended by its profiling committee. This bill is simple and logical. Ukrainian society has reached its full maturity, according to sociological research. Unfortunately, we see that Parliament is still lagging behind in this matter. I refer to Parliament's leadership and I stress that this bill has passed and received support from the profiling committee. Please put him to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we've discussed all these bills. So I'm going to start with this, and then we're going to put everybody else. Please take your seats, let's move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept as a basis and as a whole the withdrawal from the Treaty on the Emancipation of the Memory of Courage and Heroism of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 (Registration No. 0145). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:02:48]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we also have a way out of the deal, 0074. This is a draft law on the withdrawal of the Cooperation Agreement between the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against illegal migration. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft law on the withdrawal from the Cooperation Agreement of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against illegal migration (registration No. 0074). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:03:33]] For 287 Decision taken. The whole law was passed. The next bill, 0084, is a draft law on Ukraine's withdrawal from the Agreement on the Common Agricultural Market of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. So we agreed, I'm putting the whole project under registration number 0084. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:04:11]] For 287 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next denunciation 0146 is the draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property to prevent tax evasion. I propose to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. This draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property and on the prevention of tax evasion (register No. 0146). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:05:05]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, another ratification of 0150 is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Treaty (the Ukraine-Enhancement of Energy Stability for European Energy Integration) between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Guarantee Treaty (the Ukraine-Enhanced Energy Stability Project for European Energy Integration (the establishment of hybrid electricity generation systems in the Ukraine-International Bank for Reconstruction and Development) between Ukraine and the International Bank for Development, which acts as an implementation on behalf of the Clean Technology Fund. I bet it's 0150. I'd like to make a proposal to accept as a whole the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement, Project No. 0150. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[15:06:09]] For 295 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we've denounced, we've laid it down. Dear colleagues, we have a statement from two factions, the Fatherland faction and the EC faction, to announce a recess for 30 minutes, which means today's meeting. Oh, I'm sorry, let's vote an immediate signature for me. Let's do what we've accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u36	I propose that the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should immediately sign the bills adopted today by the Supreme Council as a whole and send them to the President of Ukraine immediately for signature. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[15:06:58]] For 287 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have not been able to complete all the questions today but under objective circumstances. But we are not closing our plenary session. You will be notified of the location and time of the next meeting in advance We believe in the victory of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. With us is the truth, God is with us! We work together to win. Glory to Ukraine!
