ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that according to our orders: the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022 – the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary session on a continuous basis. So today, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. In our good tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ukraine's distinguished national deputies, the 118th period of self-reliant struggle of the Ukrainian people for their independence and territorial integrity, the simple desire to be masters of their land and the right of the nation to choose its own future. The courage and resilience of our fellow countrymen are engrossed in the whole world. So I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the fallen hero soldiers who courageously stood up for Ukraine. We also honor the memory of all civilians who were victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Let's get to work. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give time to three minutes to the daytime affairs of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. So I ask the factions and groups to sign up. The word is given to the national deputy Dubela Valerija Alexandrovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, welcome! Well, first of all, I want to inform you that after the Istanbul Convention yesterday, our team is addressing the Constitutional Court. We hope that one day this Constitutional Court will appear in Ukraine at last, not as it is today, driven under the plentuse. And the second. We will appeal to the people of Ukraine to sign a petition to the President of the province about the denunciation of the Istanbul Convention. I want to say that every person in the country, thanks to our work, will know who voted, how it all unfolded, and what the consequences for Ukraine will be. I just want you to know that we're not going to stop in order for society to understand what happened and how we can protect ourselves from it. I would also like to draw your attention to the beginning of real mega-corruption in this Supreme Council. I don't know who the initiator is, but I'm sure the only center here exists, unfortunately. And that's why I want to tell the Supreme Council right now that right after June 24, when Ukraine becomes a candidate for the European Union, our team starts preparing cases for the European Union about what's going on in Ukraine with democracy, what's going on with corruption, what's going on with freedom of speech. And I remember when we were working with the monitoring mission of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe during Janukovitch, and that's why the world was consolidated around preventing Ukraine from going to authoritarianism. And today, like yesterday, we're going to include in this case bills that relate to the allocation of 100 hectares of forest for 20 years for which persons are unknown and, of course, without any procedures or forest protection. Today we're going to include in this case a bill that deals with privatization of state and municipal property. We'll talk to you about the authors of this ending. And besides, three bills relating to mega-corruption in NAC Naftogazi. I want you to know that when there is a Sabbath like this happening in the country today and during the war, there is an opportunity to fight it if there is not enough internal effort. We will not allow Ukraine to become an authoritarian territory, into corruption, without freedom of speech, without parliamentaryism and without taking national interests into account. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u3	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the City Jury Ivanovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u4	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to give the floor to national deputy Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u5	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I sincerely want to say that I must have been one of the biggest Eurosceptics in this room. Not because I was against European choice, but because I had some experience, the information about what we were there, in a mild sense, was not waiting for. But perhaps I am one of my few respectable colleagues who is closest to Europe. My parents were born in Hungary, studied in Slovakia, worked in the Soviet Union, gave birth to me, and I had already given birth to my children in Ukraine. And what I want to say is that yesterday's decision, I hope that tomorrow-after tomorrow we will get this candidate status as a member of the European Union, then I want to believe that we will be able to achieve this membership for a maximum of 18-24 months. There was a lot of talk about Hungary. And I want to say, and thank Valery, and even Mikola, that yesterday, Orban decided to vote for our country's candidate status. So all the speculation around Hungary's position has been removed. Given the importance of tomorrow’s summit, which will begin tomorrow, I want to thank and ask. [[expression in foreign language]] To the Hungarians, to the Slovaks, we thank you for that. [[expression in foreign language]] I want to believe that. Unfortunately, I do not speak German, not French, Italian, Spanish. I'll learn, I promise. But I also want to believe that European grandiries will support us tomorrow. That tomorrow we will be supported by Sweden and Ireland, for which we voted so hard and intensely yesterday. It's a very difficult way. This is the path where human rights are guaranteed. This is the path where freedom of speech is guaranteed. And we have to go this way with dignity. Now we have to recognize, feel that European choice for the first time in 30 years of independence becomes a reality, and much depends on us, much depends on our military. And I am convinced that the European perspective is no longer a carrot, but it can become a reality if we unite around it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u7	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u8	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome this hall with a historic decision yesterday. Yesterday's vote at the Istanbul Convention is a step forward. I'm sure this room knows that since the word "gender" came about 982 times in Ukrainian legislation, the Ukrainian family will not be dissipated from it. What I'd like to welcome you all, and I'd like to say no to the manipulations that unfortunately came out of this rostrum yesterday throughout the day. But unfortunately, not everything that is happening in Ukraine right now is so positive and progressive. And the next time I come from this rostrum, I want to go to my colleagues in the hall, first of all to the representatives of the Education Committee and the Health Committee, about the critical situation that we now have with the training of doctors. The decision taken by the Ministry of Health minosvets to recruit any kind of medicine is absolutely harmful. Friends, do you want your children to be treated by doctors who have not been able to pass an entrance exam at the minimum pass point? 150 that we've had before, since 2017, was a pretty low threshold. Now they're canceling it in principle. You realize that in order to get into medicine right now, you're going to have to come and take an intro exam and you're going to have to take the "b" answer and you're going to have to score enough points to get into medical school. Whoever told me about the desiccation in the future is all outright manipulation. This is a totally harmful decision, which unfortunately is not the first harmful decision made by the Ministry of Health regarding the preparation of doctors. Because I also want to remind you that the decision to conduct an international medical examination has been overturned, which could actually in any way dissipate students in the learning process. This means that any student who enters this year will receive a doctor's degree in six years, in eight years they will come to treat your children. Would you please not be afraid to think about it? Now that respect for the health and life of every citizen (citizens) is important, the training of doctors should be brought to a much higher level of discussion. That is why I look forward very much, and I am now officially calling on the educational and health committees to consider the disastrous medical education situation in Ukraine in order to guarantee that we will have qualified doctors. Otherwise, my friends, we are on our way to a disaster when the question of whether we have a good doctor to advise is about to be heard more and more. I very much hope that this call will be heard and the appropriate decisions will be taken before this introductory campaign begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u9	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of "European Solidarity". Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At this tragic time when Ukrainians are dying, protecting their state, when a large number of our people are living on fire, when some of our citizens are forced to flee the world behind our eyes, when others are trying to destroy us, we have the opportunity to be as close as ever to a dream, to return us to our European civilizational space. And we have with us a direct responsibility, a colossal responsibility, before this Supreme Council, not to waste this historic opportunity, because the price of coming home is extraordinary. It's another front of war, and we have to understand and realize that. Because European integration is, in fact, the death of the heir to the Russian Imperial Order -- and the beginning of a new era not only in European, Ukrainian, but also in world history. So, colleagues, I would like to remind you that Ukraine's European integration has begun to take root in our society in the Dignity Revolution, when we, with crazy losses, have regained our right to build a country that we believe in: a democratic, free, successful, prosperous country. We started many reforms eight years ago: from decentralization, from the rule of law, from the construction of anti-corruption institutions, from freedom of speech, from the creation of a social language, from party building through the financing of political parties, from corporate governance, from government administration and many more. Sadly, many of these reforms have already been attacked or even destroyed. We are now facing the immediate challenge of restoring this reformist order of the day even during the war. You and I, colleagues, have no right to waste this chance. You and I have to understand that yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine really approved a series of Euro-Integration Bills, which are important in our anticipation of the European Council's decision on June 23-24. And we hope that this decision should definitely be positive for Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian people. But after that, our mission with you, the task of this Supreme Council, the task of this government, the task of this President -- to really continue to show the political will to change, to transform according to European principles. I'm counting on you to have this responsibility here in this room. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u11	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Konstankevitch Irina Miroslavovni, the MP's Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, after this, please invite the people's deputies into the hall, and we will begin our meeting. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I'm going to start by rephrasing the popular expression: we created Ukraine, and now we have to create Ukrainians as a nation. And obviously we're on a long and complicated road, because we have to create Ukrainians together that will be organic in the European community: highly educated, highly cultural, who respect each other's rights and freedoms. But at the same time, these must be people — with a deep national origin, a historical memory. They're people who know the cost of living who've been at war with a Russian aggressor, and that's why they're people who have chosen the right to the future. As a Parliament, we have already taken several important steps for this future, especially with regard to the restoration of historical memory, we have passed the right laws against the "Russian world" against the protection against racist ideology. These are laws that will work in the sphere of culture, in the sphere of education, in humanitarianism in general. And now we think that we need Parliament and central executive power to formulate the vision of the future: what it should be and who it should be for. And on the sacramental shoemaker's question, "Who are we? Whose parents? Kim, what's the big deal?" - soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, volunteers, the vast Ukrainian civil society responds to 118 days of defending Ukraine. And we are convinced that now Parliament must also tell what the future should be like and for whom. The Future Group believes that the focus of parliamentary work should be on education, on culture and on issues that concern children, young people and quantity and quality parameters of future generations, that is, on demographic issues. Human capital issues have always been updated after the war. I'll remind you, dear colleagues who hear me that, based on two wars -- World War I and World War II -- Ukraine lost 15 million -- it's the smallest estimate. What will be the quantity parameters at the moment, we don't know, but we can do everything we can to make these losses as small as possible. So let's rebuild ourselves through education, through culture and to take care of our future, a future in which everyone is precious. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u13	Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. And then we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! On this special Euro-Integration Week, on the eve of that historic decision of our nation, when everyone says, Ukraine is granted the status of candidate for the family of the peoples of the European Union -- right at the time when we are together with you and the whole society are preparing for this important status of our nation, when we are adopting appropriate Euro-integration, appropriate anti-corruption, appropriate social laws, we also need to understand with you that living in Europe means also high European wages for our defenders and protectors, for our medics, for all of our students, for the whole budget sector of our country. And to pay people's wages, and this is a huge proportion of Ukrainians working in the public sector, it is absolutely necessary for everyone, working in their jobs, to work in Europe as well. In Europe, he paid taxes purely and purely, because for a European, the number one per month is tax pay. Therefore, we are definitely in favour of returning the prewar state of taxation to definitely return the import duty to the goods. However, Europeans are also those who have the ability to drive and buy cars and not to blur across European Union countries. Since we are already becoming a candidate for membership in the European Union, let us consider that Ukrainians continue to have the opportunity to buy and import cars without blurry. This is overwhelming for every Ukrainian, for he will pay the same tax when he buys gas with a new car or a used car from Europe. He will pay the tax when he transports the goods, one or the other. So it's going to be the economy anyway. So, again today, I urge you, by restoring taxes on wages, to save the opportunity for Ukrainians to buy and import a European car in the family without import duty. Special attention should be paid to our defenders, who are now working hard on different borders. They will come, and they will also need definitely cars for their families. And they have to get them without paying any import duties. This will certainly work in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the performances. The time for the performances is over. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Nelly Illovna Yakovlieva, "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] And Anatoly Igorovich Urbanski, Party for the Future. Let's also say hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we want strong health, the peaceful heavens, and the swiftest victory. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held to predict the results of the daytime voting. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote by clicking on the "Z" green button. So I remind you that by holding the sensor button, you have to press the "Z" button on the green and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the vote, that is, before the results appear on the board. Please be prepared. Dear colleagues, the signal vote. Please vote. [[10:26:32]] For 265 Dear colleagues, look, you don't have to run when I say, let's vote, you've got to be in the workplace, not creating a brownie movement in the hall. Let's move on, dear fellows. The list of questions that have been submitted. which was previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you are given. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have a 12:05 speech by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark. So if we're even going to be in the question, I'm asking, we're going to take a break, we're going to listen to the speech, and then we're going to continue. Is there no objection? None. So let's start with the first question. Dear colleagues, this is 7451. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property and other Ukrainian legislative acts to facilitate the relocation of enterprises under military conditions and the economic restoration of the state. Dear colleagues. Wait a second. Dear colleagues, we have to vote on this issue in short notice. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:28:10]] For 229 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Economic Development Committee, Alexy Vasilovich Movcan, to speak. Please. Yeah, four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u16	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! Draft Law No. 7451 deals with promoting the relocation of enterprises in conditions of martial law and the economic recovery of the state after our victory. And this is an important and necessary change in the system of government ownership. The bill consists of two parts. The first part is about saving the economy during the war, and it's crucial. These are temporary standards for the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Law on Privatization for the Period of War, which are aimed at preserving jobs and businesses that can still be transported from areas where fighting is taking place. This part is about how, in terms of limited competition in the military economy, it gives entrepreneurs who run from war the opportunity to acquire unnecessary state assets. In addition, the bill proposes to speed up and digitize privatization procedures during wartime. All that is needed is that the purchase of a facility for the purpose of relocating enterprises takes place quickly and without bureaucratic barriers. Another part of the bill is about restoring Ukraine's economy after the war. Here we are making changes to the body of the Privatisation Act and other legislative acts, most of which are aimed at clearing up the august state-of-the-art property, which is often fed by force or corrupt policies. The bill proposes to speed up and simplify the preparation of facilities for privatization and to eliminate laziness in legislation that delay the privatization of state enterprises. Let me give you some numbers to understand. Today, there are 634 state-owned enterprises in the trust fund for privatization. Only 10 percent of them can be privatized. Nearly 30 percent of enterprises have been arrested for property and other hardships that block further privatization. In another 12 percent of state - owned enterprises, there is no one to prepare the enterprise for privatization. Other businesses cannot be sold because they are in bankruptcy, have no assets, or are in temporarily occupied areas. Most of the barriers to privatization are being removed by this bill, which will lead to transparent and open privatization for the restoration of Ukraine’s economy. In addition, we offer to sell objects of great privatization through electronic auctions, not as before, through a auctioneer and a hammer. The Committee's conclusion. The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 20 June 2022 considered Bill 7451 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the project be adopted on the basis of further elaboration in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u17	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Sign up: two for, two for, please. B Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u19	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I don't think I'm calling you for the first time to ask you to still read the draft laws that are being submitted for consideration in this room. I would like to refer to the authors of the draft law, which, in disregard of our thinking, because exactly the same mirror bill was considered in the hall on April 21, this year, and was rejected by all of us, so disrespecting our opinion means that you want to cheat and commit a project that is not supported by most of the people's deputies. I don't know what could lead to this bill being passed in the hall today at least as a basis. It seems to me that the debate on privatization needs to begin, but first of all let's take a change to one of the most important norms that exists today in the Law on the Legal Regime of War. This will reverse the ban on great privatization. This is going to be the first step. This means that we tell society, or that we have a long war, or that we have no other source of budget filling, how to sell all state and municipal property for cash. Or actually say the real reason why you want to do great privatization. So once again, most importantly, without changing this law, you ignore the legislation of Ukraine in general. You violate the standards that are right on guard so that sales are not made at such times at no cost. There's nothing here about help with the relocation of businesses, nothing, not a word. Where is your conscience when you say you're doing it to restore the economy? What kind of economy?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Treyakova. But he's giving the word to Kisilev, I understand? Please. Quiet, huh? I'm sorry, what do you want? Are you the answer? We don't have any answers. Will you report from the Servant of the People? You will report from the Servant of the People. Please, Be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u22	I'd like to clarify some points. Colleagues, this bill is not identical to the one voted on April 21st, is manipulation. Yeah, there's a bunch of similar standards, but it's purely ideological. This bill on a tool for relocating business to state enterprises. That is, so that business from Kharkiv, Ohttirka, Donbas, from any other region that today suffers from fighting and Russian aggression, can acquire unnecessary assets in the state, but only according to the stated principle. And that's what I need to note to those who criticize our bill, that it's written in the bill, when we're selling not everything in the state that's free, but only those objects that are wanted by entrepreneurs in the territories that are suffering. That is, privatization only opens after it has shown its desire for such an enterprise. And that's why we have to do it so that the business that is still working today can continue to work, pay taxes, create jobs and add value. There is no great privatization in the text that is currently being voted on during the war. It's also not true, it's forbidden for a period of war. So we have to make decisions just so that business can reposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u23	The word is given to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, let's get back to the basics. How many state-owned enterprises do we have? 3,300. Half of them, 1,500 of them, and even now, after the war, they don't work anymore and they never work again. These are documents, or barns, at best, which are only drawn from the budget. The other part is half of the damage, and half of it is almost made. And only probably 5 percent is what brings money into the budget. So the logical action of any state, the more that remains in war, is the Sarai, the enterprises, the property that is in any way, to transfer the business that comes out of my native Mariupol, the Kharkiv region, the affected areas of the Kyiv region, the Chernigiv region, and so on. And that's normal. This bill has some nuances, and we talked to the committee about them. And I hope that we will be working on the second reading, especially when it comes to weight issues. But if Transparency International supports it, if it's supported by our experts, if it's supported by international partners, it probably deserves to be accepted in the first reading. But most importantly, we have a unique chance that every politician, not everyone, but most politicians, came, sat down for 30 years and fed them to people who have left the areas that have been affected by fighting, and want to create jobs here in Ukraine, not in Poland, not in Hungary, but in Ukraine. And that is why I would like to vote in favour of this law, and I ask you to do so. So we're going to support it until the first reading. To the second, hopefully, we're working on weight issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u25	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u27	Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, I've seen in the Supreme Council a lot of different bills and how they were passed, but, yes, you know, somehow, I don't have another word for it, as this bill is introduced, I've never seen it before. Last week, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was reviewing Bill 7402, which fully coincides with the bill. I want to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine rejected that bill. That is, part two of article 107 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - and the Rules - are the basic laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - cannot be passed this bill and the content of the current session. Dear colleagues, what are you doing? This is where Mr. Silent stood and told you the absolute lie that this bill does not repeat that. So you take it, and I, Mr. Head, will prepare, as a national deputy of Ukraine, my appeal to you officially and will give a legal lecture on the rules of this law repeating the rejected bill. And one more thing. He sees what happens in this law. This law is completely out of the process of privatization, of the concentration of shares, of an institution like the Antimonopoly Committee. So for today, two officials gathered, had a drink, had a bite to eat -- and they say, let's raid that stock company. The judge’s decision is taken in the morning, transferred to the ARMA, and the ARMA passes it on to the other owner. That's it. So this law actually allows you to work in a mess with legal persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, who else? Julia Volodymyr is also. I see. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u30	Dear friends, well, it's you who understand that it's just masculine corruption. You know, privatization, in principle, during war is absurd. Try selling your apartments during the war. What a price you'll get for them, I'd like to understand that from you. But it's not just that. Imagine how this privatization will take place. The first is that without a press release, there is no more press release. Not at a real valuation price, but at a book value, without competition, with prices down by 50 percent and 100 percent. This does not include anything about creditors at all. In addition, it is beautifully described that objects of great privatization can be sold in private. Tell me, what's this all about? And a lot of other wonderful things. It's pure corruption. And we're preparing this case for the European Union. Don't vote for corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u31	Please, Shahov, and this will be the final word. People's deputies please take their seats. Then we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u32	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly discussed in this room the "acquisition" of many objects that need to be checked out, which were "covered" back in the 1990s: how they were destroyed; whether they gave jobs to those who privatized those enterprises that were cut into scrap metal destroyed our state. There's a war coming. And I would like to point out once again, if everything was bombed on Donbas now, so that what they're privatizing doesn't get cut out again. Once again, please do an audit of all the enterprises that have been "accepted" over the past 30 years that have been cut out and marauded completely in Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, take your seats. And I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property and other legislative acts of Ukraine to facilitate the relocation of enterprises in conditions of martial law and economic recovery of the State (project registration number 7451). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:44:55]] For 226 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Show the factions, please. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7451. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:45:31]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The 116th you asked for, I immediately put it to a vote. So there are no questions. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear friends, we still have three quick votes. It's just that we've got three bills, we've got internal disagreements. So I took advantage of my right to read article 131 of the Rules in order to correct and move on if possible. There's two bills. One bill applies, we've broken the law there and there's internal disagreement within the bill. And two other bills are sports. A letter came from the international organization VADA, asking for some position to edit. So with your permission, I'm going to ask these three questions right now -- and we're going to move forward in the daytime. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll tell you what. You have it in order of the day. 4279, yes. There's no discussion, I'm sorry. You may or may not vote. And if you don't vote, I'll sign what it is. There's no discussion here. Guys, let's go. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I'm teaching this as a 131st reconciliation. You don't agree, you don't vote. I have been asked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy to remove inaccuracies and inconsistencies in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 25 January 2022 of the Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (for taxation of customs payments of goods moving (moved) in international postal shipments, international express shipments and the order of their declaration). During the drafting of the text of the law, it was established that the text contained editorial disagreements between its positions, in particular in section I, paragraph 6, of this law on the introduction of article 236 of the Ukrainian Customs Code in a new edition and chapter II of the Final and Transitional Positions. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy (the Committee’s meeting protocol of 29 April 2022) proposed proposals aimed at eliminating inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the adopted law. Proposals for the settlement of disagreements have been sent electronically through SEDO. If. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this document to the vote for adoption, so I'm putting in proposals that are being initiated. I am voting on the proposals initiated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy on the Elimination of Disagreements and Inaccuracies in the text of the adopted Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the Taxation of Customs Payments of Goods Moving (moved) in International Mails, International Express Transfers and the Order of Declaration) (Registration No. 4279). Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[10:49:05]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, and two others. This sports committee turned to the VADA letter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Right now, Irina Volodymyrna? All right. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, this is what just happened. With the Rules being broken, the bill was simply amended and the green light of smuggling was given in general to ensure that everything we actually cleaned in the previous law was now introduced by this change. And since we haven't been able to explain in a professional way what's going on, I'm going to inform you that we're going to make 27 decisions to call off today's vote. And we ask very much, Mr. Stefanchuk, to pay attention to factions. If they're asking you to speak in order for a minute, please give us that word. Because I would like to point out that Mrs. Yuzanina raised her hand to explain in a professional way that now you've actually completely changed the logic of the bill that we voted and cleaned in the hall, in the committees, including with the experts during the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u35	I'll use my right to a replica, Mrs. Heratschenko, if you don't mind. I made the decision that was made by the committee today and referred to the record of the decision. The decision is taken under the 131st Rules, which does not provide for any other discussion in the Hall. It may or may not be accepted. I also recommend that you study the Rules. Because the deadlines for introducing any issues related to the adoption of this law came two more days after its adoption last time. And no decisions are made by blockers. That's right, in general terms. Let's move on, dear fellows. Dear friends, two more of these elaborate decisions. I explained the situation, and the Committee on Physical Culture and Sports asked me about antidoping. Dear colleagues, I have been asked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth and Sports to remove disagreements and inaccuracies in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 26 January 2022 of the Law on Anti-Doping in Sports (registration No. 5099). During the drafting of the text, it was established that the text contained editorial inaccuracies and inconsistencies between its positions, as well as some provisions which conflict with the international legal obligations of Ukraine in the field of anti-doping activities, the requirements of the global anti-doping agency VADA. The experts at VADA also made some comments. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Youth and Sports (the Committee’s meeting protocol of February 16, 2022), and after consulting international experts, proposed proposals to eliminate inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the adopted law. Proposals for the elimination of inaccuracies were made electronically through SEDO. I am voting on the proposals initiated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth and Sports on the elimination of disagreements and inconsistencies in the text of the adopted Law on Anti-Doping in Sports (registration No. 5099). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:53:02]] For 305 Decision taken. And the final clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth and Sports to remove disagreements and inaccuracies in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 26 January 2022 of the Law on the Amendment to Article 52 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Activities of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory (registration No. 5640). During the drafting of the text, it was established that the text contained editorial inaccuracies and inconsistencies between its positions, as well as some positions that were contrary to the international legal obligations of Ukraine in the field of anti-doping activities, the requirements of the World Anti-Doping Agency of VADA. The experts at VADA also made some comments. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Youth and Sports (the Committee’s meeting protocol of February 16, 2022) proposed proposals to eliminate disagreements and inconsistencies in the adopted law. Proposals for the elimination of inconsistencies and inconsistencies were made electronically through SEDO. I am voting on the proposals initiated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth and Sport for the Elimination of Disagreements and Inaccuracies in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on the Amendment to Article 52 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Activities of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory (Registration No. 5640). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:54:46]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of issues related to disagreements and inaccuracies in the texts of the legislation already adopted. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next question we have is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislation on the review of individual tax benefits: 7418, 7418-1, 7418-2, 7418-3, 7418-4. Dear colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda the above-mentioned drafts. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:55:40]] For 263 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:56:02]] For 253 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, reports, "two-for-two-again" or "two-for-two-again"? [[B in m in s a l in]] Reports, right? Friends! Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u36	You know, Mr. Head, I don't even feel sorry for you because you've just voted down what you've literally rejected recently in full measure. Now you have no correction, no error, no technical error, and no postage. And it's basically allowed all mails to hand over to recipients without an identification number, without a code to legal or natural persons. These are large shipments of smuggling that are now being broken up through postal operators, always have been, and we wanted to stop. Are you saying you're fighting corruption and smuggling? And now you've got her full-blown! All mailers have a system that fully provides identification. You told them we didn't need it. Congratulations, you're the first corrupters to vote here for this change. As far as this bill is concerned. In fact, you have to think about putting in such benefits for business. You said you heard the business, you understood the complexity for entrepreneurs of a simplified tax system, a general system of taxation, so you took those steps. It's been three months -- more than 20 billion -- that's not budgeted. But we do think it's a circulation cost for business, don't we? This is what they have left, or physical persons, so many speakers have spoken. And I think the first thing to think about is that the budget is empty, the army is underfunded, there's no money, there's no involvement, there's very little input from partner countries. Stop hiding information. At least here you can tell each other the truth? So think first of all about how to push your populist stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u37	The word is given to National Deputy Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u38	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The bill that is currently under consideration, among other things, provides for the cancellation of a foreign car from abroad to Ukraine. The question is very sensitive to Ukrainian citizens, because many people would like to take advantage of this possibility, especially our soldiers who are now on the front, and for objective reasons they cannot avail themselves of this law, which they are now trying to repeal. And, you know, it's interesting that in this session room, they're very often thrown from extremes to extremes. First, cars were imported without payment of time. And what did this lead to? And the result was that the cars started to drive around mass cars when our neighbors saw the Mercedes, the lexuses, the expensive cars themselves, wondering and saying, "What's going on in the front, on the war?" Is this the country that's asking for humanitarian aid? That's what they did on the one hand. On the other hand, they are now trying to cancel out precisely for those who need it: volunteers who buy very low-cost cars for the front; soldiers who would have had the right to use them to buy a car; those who lost their cars when their property was destroyed during active military action. So the position of the Fatherland faction is that before you do anything, you have to think about what to do. We demand that if this law is even adopted only in the first reading, correct it until the second reading. And yet, to those who need help from the state, to leave the benefits to the military, to the volunteers, to those who lost their cars in the military, and to socially vulnerable groups. Then it'll be fair. But let those salons who have transported expensive cars return the funds to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u39	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u41	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the Life and Peace platform will only support this bill. I agree with previous statements that the norm that has been introduced in other legislative acts has, unfortunately, not been used as an assignment, and we have to return to the standards that were. But the draft law still amends the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance. Article 1 of which is a member of the congregation for compulsory government pension insurance includes a separate standard, which includes light cars equipped with solely electric motors, one or more. So in theory, if it wasn't for military time, in principle, we were implementing, we were canceling the PD, we were canceling the bribe, we could cancel that rule, and there would be no payment to the Pension Fund for 5 percent of those who drive electric cars, they're registered here. But when we have a pension deficit of 220 billion dollars, which is covered by the government budget, when we have a government budget deficit of 744 billion dollars, when we borrow 1.1 trillion dollars, I think that's probably not the case today, and I suggest we go back in time. This time. The second point is regarding support for domestic automobiles. Because when we talked to you about these moments, and in general in theory, what was the purpose of the car import security, they were all about supporting domestic car building. So if someone wants to make appropriate parity changes, please give it to him. And the third. The explanatory note states that 3.5 billion dollars will be added as a result of the return of what they were. It's about moments for regular cars. Where are the figures, how much will the Pension Fund lose from you cancelling the payment rate? Thank you for your attention. And all I'm asking for is a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u43	Please, Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u44	Please give me the word Pippi Natalia Romanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u45	Pippa Natalia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u46	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Here from this rostrum, you know, an alternative bill was also passed by my colleague Galina Vasilchenko. We fully understand the need to fill the budget, and we consider this initiative to be an adventure. But it's really good about the participants in the fighting, which, unlike other citizens, are protecting us now, and the ability of those citizens to bring in the car without blurry. So we're going to do exactly what we're going to do, and when there's a blur, we're going to do this through the Act, and we're going to apply this rule so that those involved in the hostilities one year after the end of the state of war, having a license, and not for reselling, without the possibility of alienation, can get a car like this. We will continue to uphold the rights of those who protect us and enable us to see the peaceful heavens. That's the first one. The other one. I want to go to a self-constructive president who, I don't know, is so often shown on television and at what cost he lives on, but he's confused countries a little bit, because I'm going to name a country where there are no activists. This is the country that is now doing the genocide of the Ukrainian people, Russia. And all the best things in this country are thanks to the active people and activists who are now on the front. I can't help but mention Roman Ratushny, who died. I can't help but mention Arsenius Dimid, who died. And there are thousands of these people, volunteers, because everyone who does not do it at the expense of money, but with an idea, is an activist. Because no passive person sitting on a couch doing nothing did good to his society. So I ask you very carefully to choose words, because in a neighbouring country where there are no activists, there is no freedom of speech or country. And there was one vice president -- Janukovic, everyone knows how he ended up. Then I'm asking you to choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u47	Please, Paul the Bakunets, and at the end of Danilo the Gethmans, and then we will proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, two more speeches in one minute and we're voting. Please take your seats. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u48	Dear national deputies, please listen to the thoughts of those whose chosen ones you are in today’s vote. Of course, restoring taxes on goods companies will be mandatory, but it is absolutely necessary to leave this standard — zero clearance for transport vehicles. Therefore, the law as a whole cannot be voted on today. We've passed an alternative law that says it allows for one-time import without paying any car duties for those involved in the fighting, for those citizens who stand up for our state today. This is very and very important, please, hall, pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u49	Please, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich. And let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we were in May when we decided to cancel VAT and import duties. Russia was under Kiev, and the country was threatened with a deficit in the general consumption of goods. So you and I have decided to release goods imported into Ukraine from taxes. We solved the deficit problem, the economy is recovering. Today, this decision harms a domestic business that asks us to restore the customs as quickly as possible, to restore the VAT, because their goods are cheap for foreign goods, which is totally wrong. I ask you to support this bill on the basis and in general to enable our domestic producers to make money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I wanted to make a point: the committee's decision, based on the committee's proposals and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Fatherland faction against. Although, once again, this decision was made on the Conciliation Council, the Honorable Colleagues, the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this decision was made on the Conciliation Council, based on it as a whole. Wait a second. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies please take their seats. I'm making the decision as it is. Yeah? Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to the committee to take the basis and, in general, to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. This is Bill 7418. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, are you against the whole thing? Well, we discussed this on the Conciliation Council, colleagues! We discussed this on the Conciliation Council with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we discussed this on the Conciliation Council, let's stick to these issues. So once again, I'm going to make a proposal: to accept as a basis and generally, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7418. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the review of individual tax benefits. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:10:09]] For 235 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is 7420. We agreed without discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] How so? We agreed without discussion, Arthur Volodymyrovich. 7420. It's a project. Let's see the factions. Draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on certain matters of implementation of Chapter 5 of Chapter IV of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, on the other hand. I'm told we had a deal, no discussion. So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include Bill 7420 in the agenda of the day session first. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:11:22]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer. Okay, so then I'm going to make an offer to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[11:11:54]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if discussed, then two in favour, two in favour. Please sign up. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Veliczovich Mikoli Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u53	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u54	Colleagues, isn't it really interesting to sort things out? I'm going to the controlling faction. In view of the fact that many in the vote of the previous law have raised the issue of injustice in relation to natural persons and the blurry of cars so that you can pass the three draft car sweeping laws through Acts at the next meeting. Because our advance faction voted, and I worked with my colleagues to vote in favour of the previous law, because I see you didn't have half the factions voting at all. So, if we can, at the next meeting we have to do something useful and look at these three draft laws. Thank you. Now essentially this bill. Dear colleagues, these are really the most important changes we make in the process of integrating our customs, such things as the implementation of certain directives and norms into our customs legislation. It's incredibly difficult for you to know. You will recall October 2019. I was here presenting an alternative bill to your Law on Authorized Economic Operators. It's been three years and it hasn't worked. So these changes to the Customs Code, they're too hard to follow in our legislation, and they're barely being implemented. Any such global change, I would ask you to immediately set up a responsible person, so that at least 10 percent of what we accept, or we will never set the order on the customs. And please don't creep into simplifications so much that we're supposed to be original people. We have both buttons now, so we're already doing everything for the customs office, because we can't do anything, not track down, not order, not answer for our functions, our powers. So I'm addressing you, this law still needs to be worked out. I don't know how he can be worked out like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u55	The word is given to the national deputy, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this bill is very, very important for, in principle, the work of the entire economy of Ukraine, and especially those who encounter customs in any way. In fact, we are introducing European integration on customs matters, border crossings, and all that is involved. This system is called NCTS. It's very complicated, it's been developed for a very long time, it's been developed by the European Union. And if it's very easy to explain what this is, it's the ability of our customs, our customs authorities to get information from at least 25 other customs officers, from countries that import us or when we export our products accordingly. This bill is made up of more than 200 pages. He's got a huge number of comments. At least, if I am not mistaken, there were five working groups, and there is still work to be done. All that Nina Petrovyn had said before was true of the customs comments. Therefore, this bill can only be adopted on a basis and further elaborated. And here I have a huge request to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry responsible for the Customs and Tax Block to make for the second reading, if we vote for business, and, of course, the customers of this law are the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, the Council of the Ukrainian Business, the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs, to receive a letter from them for the second reading of each national MP about what they are asking to support this law. Because now it's a letter just with notes to this bill, which is certainly a lot. So we're only going to vote in the first reading with an advance until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u57	The word is given to the national deputy Pauluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u59	Owl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u60	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We heard comments from colleagues about the bill. But what I want to add is that in terms of war, we cannot and do not have the right to delay the introduction of integration processes that can strengthen our country. The main commitment of our country to the economic part of the Association Agreement with the EU is to accede to the Convention on common transit procedure, which is currently in national application. This bill is necessary for the implementation of the next phase of international application of these procedures, i.e. the accession to the Convention on Shared Transit. This will help get rid of the line of trucks at the checkpoints, reduce the duration of their processing, which will contribute to the increase in freight traffic. I want to say that in 2019, yes, we adopted the so-called Authorized Economic Operator Institute, but unfortunately, it's not working today, only one enterprise got the tax, benefited from the benefit. The bill therefore proposes to remedy the shortcomings contained in the current provisions of the Ukrainian Customs Code regarding an authorized economic operator. We've gathered several working groups with the Minfins, the Customs, the business, and we've already started discussions. All the remarks that are, we'll take into account, and we'll make this a bill to be for people, for business, for the state. At the meeting of the working group we supported it, and now I ask you to support it in the hall on the basis of further development of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich and Shahov, then we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we have just talked about the need to join forces in matters that may contribute to our economic situation. Well, at least it's stabilizing. We need to understand that at this difficult time, the unity of the Supreme Council is to demonstrate to the whole country that we are ready and trusting today those authors who are concerned about economic stability. It would be irresponsible to balance this situation in the hall. Our faction will support this bill. Thank you for your attention. Our group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u64	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, our group will support this bill on the basis, and as rapporteur Alexander Yuriovich Owl also called for the hall. And I would like to point out that it has been the volunteers since 2014 who have carried the burden and the wars that began in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and in the Crimea, and now they're all over Ukraine. It is therefore necessary to make the most of the effort, to work out this bill, and to enable development, and to help volunteers who are still carrying this economic burden in Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on certain matters of implementation of Chapter 5 of Chapter IV of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, of the one part, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, of the other part (project registration number 7420). Dear colleagues! Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:21:48]] For 269 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply and amendment deadlines. You don't have to? I just have this offer. No, it means no. No questions asked, let's do it. Then let's move on to the next question, we took the previous one as a basis. 7427 and alternative 7427-1 are the draft of the Law on the Specificities of the Regulation of Relations in the Natural Gas Market and in the Field of Heating during the Operation of War and Further Recovery. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include these issues in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:22:45]] For 256 Decision taken. Vadim Eugeneovich, have you reached out or changed your mind? Okay. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[11:23:16]] For 248 Decision taken. Who's with the procedure? Julia Volodymyrna? Please, Your Honor, sit down and let us see Julia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u66	Dear Head, I have an address for you. The point is that there are laws that are fundamental enough, deep enough to be discussed. And putting them under a reduced procedure is wrong. Let's just put Parliamentarianism back in this room. And let's just say that if the law is short, it's clear to everyone, in this same sense of reduced procedure, and where the complicated bills that require detailed, substantive discussion don't put in a shorter procedure. Because that's essentially how you ruin the whole parliamentary debate on important bills. And I very much ask you, let's go to the Conciliation Council and raise this question because the Supreme Council has already turned into a service staff where there is no parliamentary process at all. And I propose that this law be considered in full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u67	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. The decision has already been made. I am guided and guided by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which clearly stipulates that the procedure is chosen by 150 national deputies, not by me. All I can do is make that offer that came to me. If it was supported in the hall, the hall would consider the procedure set out in the hall. There's not going to be 150 -- we're going in full procedure. Such order, indeed, is and will be. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. I invite the first Deputy Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Vlasenko Yuri Mikolaiovich, to report on the basic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u68	Good afternoon, honourable deputies, honourable chairman! Allow me to present to you the legislative initiatives aimed at guaranteeing the protection of the population and consumers of Ukraine from rising prices for natural gas, heat and satellite services in terms of military aggression against Ukraine, stabilizing the activities of economic operators in the relevant areas during the war period and further restoring them in order to ensure the continued period of the autumn and winter period of 2022-2023. Ukraine's draft Law on the characteristics of regulation of relations in the natural gas market and in the area of heat supply during the war and further recovery is a basic project that envisions a moratorium on the price of natural gas and tariffs for thermal energy and satellite services to ensure the availability of these services for domestic consumers in conditions of war and post-war conditions; a set of compensatory measures aimed at stabilizing natural gas market entities and thermal power companies operating in the event of a moratorium; and ensuring the emergence of crisis situations caused by armed aggression against Ukraine in the gas and heat markets segments of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u69	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. The author of the alternative bill, Timoshenko, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, what I want to say first is that there is a decision by the Committee on European Integration that this bill does not meet the requirements that should be taken into account for membership in the European Union. That's the first one. The other one. It's a real mega-corruption law. This Parliament has not seen in principle. I want you to feel, well, here's what's going on inside, and make your own conclusions. Look, it's required by the state budget of 226 billion dollars for aid, which is projected in the United States. So this amount of money is going to come and then we have to give it to NAC Naftogaz. Now, for what it's worth, it's important. The first one is. Well, in fact, you know, our Ukrainian gas, it buys NAC Naftogaz at Crushing. So we extract our gas, and then NAC Naftogaz buys our gas. What Does It Do? NAC Naftogaz in this law? They buy $7.28 for a cube at the Crushing, and then they sell 30. I have a question: what kind of homage is this, and what do our mining companies have to pay 7.28 during the war, and then our Ukrainian payers have to pay 30 for the heat? Because this is the grant that the budget will be between 7.28 and 30. This grant will not be paid by the people, but by the international aid budget. Where will this money go that will come from at NAC Naftogaz? Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of this law. I don't have time for you to open other positions, but don't vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u71	Please, Your Honor, let's move on to the discussion of these bills. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u72	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u73	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, in fact, at our committee meeting, we were trying to understand the substance of the basic draft law that the Main Committee was considering, and so we had to get into those special procedures and operations that are now proposed by the Basic Law. For one thing, it seemed to me right now that we were voting 7,451 on privatization, that it was somehow even related to this draft law. I can see that this bill was made specifically for subsidies to pay subsidies to those nationalized liars. It seems to me that this second stage might be privatization because of this pool that you're talking about. But before that, the state will give 76 billion to private entities from its budget at the expense of the payers, which we still don't have at all in the Armed Forces. Private entities whose debt is not identified, unverified, have no basis at all for presenting it to us now. I asked you a question. NAK Naftogaz, who doesn't have any income right now, but you're saying he's going to pay for the 76 billion special fund where he's going to take it? It's either going to be taken forward, or it's going to be based on donor funds that absolutely donors won't even know how we put private structures into the account system. I think we should stop now. If there's a committee of professionals involved in a committee to the point where they can't look at such draft laws, then it's our business in the hall to figure it out and not to let corruption advance in this system at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u75	Please, Julia Timoshenko, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u76	Okay, I can go on. Dear friends, one know-how of this law, that this huge amount of money that will come into the Naftogaz NAK is exempt from tax under this law, which is that even the budget will get nothing out of it. I'm ready to talk to the MPs who are interested in talking directly under this law. But that is not all. Our team has calculated the total gas balance for the year it takes for the country to live this year. Remember, we don't have 50 percent of the production now, and that's a reduction in natural gas consumption. Unfortunately, some people have left Ukraine, and they will not use heating, including gas. And so the point is that we don't need as much gas as NAC Naftogaz wants to buy at government expense. The maximum we need is 20 to 21 billion. We're provided with our natural gas for the winter, and we need to sell it in a war at the price that Naftogaz NAK buys gas at Crushing. Why does he speculate on our gas and take into the budget the money that's practically meant for our defense, you know? And against that background, they still want to take the heat from our communities for their debts, take them completely, and this is also provided for by this law. In addition, this law provides for enormous money during the war, which is shared with NAC Naftogazi. Are you aware of the Bentley purchase case? Are you aware that more than 900 million dollars are currently being paid to several NAC Naftogazu managers who actually shared this with each other today? Don't vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u77	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich by the faction of the political couple "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u78	Please give it to Inni Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u79	Sussun Inna Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u80	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, it's not so bad that now, in early June, we're starting to care about what the heating season is going to be like next year. And we have to admit that this is going to be a very complicated heating season. And those decisions that need to be made now need to be made with an understanding of the complexity of the situation that we face. Obviously, citizens will not be able to pay higher tariffs. Obviously, we're going to have problems with the country's gas supply. And these things have to be admitted. Just as we have to admit that we have a very high risk that even the planned quantities of production that are now being recorded at meetings, in discussions, with high probability may not happen. Do we understand that the Russians are going to bomb the mining sites? Do we realize that we can lose much of our production, and then we will have a question about how we will go through the heating season? So one of the key issues that we need to address right now is the issue of reducing our dependence on gas. We need you in the districts right now, high-ranking colleagues, through centralized management mechanisms, to decide how to switch from gas to electricity. We need to think about it now. And in fact, whatever resources we're going to spend on the heating season, we have to put money on it. In addition, we need to be as transparent as possible with our Western partners. If we are already hoping to get money from them to buy gas, let us at least not adopt those bills that have the negative conclusions of our anti-corruption committee. Let's clear out the bills so that the laws that we adopt with them can actually go to Western partners and talk about how to help us. And don't create problems in an equal place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u81	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u82	Thank you, Mr. Head. I give my word to our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Maxim Efimov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u83	Please, Jephimov Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u84	Can you do that? Mr. Head, dear colleagues! During the war, citizens feel an acute need for social support from the State. We know what the cost of services to the population is. Gas tariffs are 67 percent of the cost of heat. We've kept tariffs for the population for the rest of the heating season, but the war hasn't stopped, it takes extra steps to support people. I would like to point out that heat - efficient tariffs and hot water require compensation in other tariff structures rather than just fixing the cost of gas. Enterprises are experiencing inflationary pressures, fuel costs, and other technological costs. For the second reading, it would be appropriate to examine this aspect and not translate the burden into local budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor. Checkmate, please. Dear colleagues, also the national deputy of Shahov, and we move on to the vote. People's deputies would like to invite you into the hall and take your seats. Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u86	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, let's not forget that war is coming and the enemy is not stopping. We keep talking about corruption in gas, tariffs and so on. People have suffered so much, and today they're in trouble all over the country, and we're still hearing that the gas is 7.28 and it's going to cost 30, it's going to sell, someone's going to take it. I'm pointing out that you have to bring the monopoly back to the state at all, and that the state distributes gas to people, you can do it for free, just like it did at the time, twice what it was, and it could be. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u87	Thank you. I'm sorry, factions and groups have the right to speak. Join factions and groups -- and get all the same rights. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, two bills. We're going after the committee. People's deputies please prepare to make a decision. I propose to adopt Bill 7427 as a basis. It is a draft of the Law on the Specificities of the Regulation of Relations in the Natural Gas Market and in the Field of Heating during Wartime and Further Recovery (7427). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:40:33]] For 229 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading. Please vote. [[11:41:03]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, no questions asked. Let's move on, dear fellows. 7428, 7428-1, 7428-2. This is a draft law amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine to ensure the stable functioning of the natural gas market during the war and further restoration. Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill, these bills, be included in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:41:59]] For the 250. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:42:21]] For 239. Decision taken. Please invite the First Deputy Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Vlasenko Yuri Mikolaiovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u88	Good day again, Your Honourable Chairman and People's Deputies. Today we present to you the draft Law amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code on the Stability of the Natural Gas Market during the War State. The aim of the law is to balance the tax burden on natural gas market entities in the implementation of measures that provide for debt management caused by the State regulation of the natural gas market in the past periods under the Ukrainian Law on measures aimed at overcoming crises and ensuring financial stability in the natural gas market (No. 1639). The purpose of this law, namely, to justify its need, is to warn additional charges that are not secured by the payment source resulting from the implementation of the measures provided for in Act No. 1639 of Ukraine, as well as by the complex financial situation in which the State regulation of prices for tariffs and other forms of national regulation of the natural gas market is carried out according to the management sphere involved in the provision and distribution of natural gas, which, as a result of the extremely low level of consumer accounts, are deprived of sources for timely and complete credit and tax and tax calculations, but are required to maintain the necessary level of energy security and to prevent a humanitarian crisis in situations of military aggression. In view of what is suggested by the adoption of the prescribed bill, which is an addition to the basic bill that has just been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u89	Thank you. Please invite the author of the alternate bill, Julia Volodymirovna Timoshenko. Who's it gonna be? Puppy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u90	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Please listen carefully to me. Ukraine is in a state of war, our glorious sons and daughters are killed. One of the main causes of this war was political corruption in Europe, when the political tops of the European countries for money were purchased by RAO Gazprom, extended the North Stream, 2nd and sat on the Rao's Gazprom and Russian gas. I assure you that the same political corruption in Ukraine is now taking place with the money of NAC Naftogazu, who wants to put everyone on his needle without exception, completely monopolize this so-called market, and continue blackmailing the entire country, the entire nation, the Armed Forces, the budget for a small sum -- 264 billion, without which he, you see, will leave us without heat and without gas. One fact. When the budget committee considered this question (this will be the third question), what right did you have to deal with this issue without expertise, without any conclusion, without the basis of this crazy amount? You've been relying on a letter from some deputy finance minister, Draganczuk, on Euro-Integration. Remember, boys and girls, if the minister does not sign this conclusion for 264 billion, he realizes that he will be able to walk tomorrow. So I'm saying that this deputy minister of finance, who prepared and waved this expert conclusion, has a corrupt, unfortunately, relationship with Naftogaz, because his closest relative, Yuri Vitrenk's mother, is working as councillor with a salary of 350,000 dollars a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u91	I invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danil Alejandro Gettmanchev. As the author of the alternate committee, four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing a bill that is derived from the previous one that we have just supported. In fact, he's talking about what we're exempting from taxing those gas-supply transactions, and the Naftogazu, respectively, in making payments for the operation. The law is not political, the law is related to the previous one, and it applies only to taxation in the course of the transactions. We're on the committee, working on the text of a bill that was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, working on it, and correcting the flaws that we found in determining the tax consequences of income tax. That's why Bill number two, alternative bill number two, came up. On the committee, we decided to support the bill, which I now report, 7428-2. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Dear colleagues, please write down: two for, two against, so that we can make it. Because in literally 15 minutes, the Danish Prime Minister will be joining us, so I'm asking you to finish in these 15 minutes. Sign up: two for two against. Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, "The Fatherland" faction. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I want you to note that our team has introduced an alternative bill. What does it predict? First, clearly calculate the balance we need for this year, it's important. There's no balance today, no one's seen it. The other one. We need to go to a system where if NAC Naftogaz buys 7.28 of this gas bracelet per cubic meter in Crushing, we need exactly that price, plus transportation, plus maybe 5 percent of the NAC supplement Naftogazu, sell at this price to our thermocommunerge. Because then we don't need any money from the budget. So the grant today, the subsidies that are being considered, are considered to cover the difference between 7.28 and 30 bracelets, which is just a speculative NAC price for Naftogazu. We have to get back to this. We're also proposing to make an advance on past debts, this has to be written down in real terms. And we also suggest that we do maybe a crisis purchase of about 2 billion cubic meters in the event that you said if there's any stress or crisis, to put it in the vault. But instead of taking direct budget money, it's taking credit from the state bank. Because then, when people pay for it and TKE pays for it, we can just get this money back to the bank, we don't have to take direct payments from the budget. And by no means will the NAC, which today collects all the money all over the country, be exempt from taxes. Because then we're reducing tax revenue to a government budget that's still barely holding up. If we do these things, we'll go through the heating season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u95	The word is given to Velitchovich Mikoli Romanovich, faction of "European Solidarity". Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u96	I would like to make your work a little easier and draw attention to the conclusion of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the EU that the previous basic law does not comply with paragraphs 1 and 22 of the preamble to Directive 73/2009 on energy stability and security of energy supply, as well as the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy, which noted that it does not meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation in a separate norm. That is, if we are to continue to work on the adjacent law that we are currently considering, we need to deal with the basic law first. It is mandatory to invent the debt, to find out the reason for its existence, because the deputy minister who is to relieve the tension is to report all the key things to all the deputies in the room, he said, read from the letter what is not exactly applicable, because it is a narrow-profile committee issue, for example, to reduce the tax burden when these compensations are received. I'd like to point out that in any case, if you're taking a large amount of money out of the state budget right now -- 76 billion dollars -- you don't care what happens to military funding, you're in charge of preparing for the heating season to do this big scheme. So please consider why this money that comes to commercial structures should also be exempt from taxation. What's the difference now with Naftogaz? Why are we correcting not only the value added tax, which is absurd, because no one has to interfere with the VAT electronic administration system? This is a complete registration system.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u97	The word is given to Inni Romanovni Sowsun, the Voice faction. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, this bill is not really what I want to explain in two minutes, and two committees, I don't think all the national MPs have been able to figure it out. It's a simple task. If you voted in favour of the previous bill, which was the main one, then you should vote in favour of this bill, because it's purely technical, it's tax-related, it's about how debt is going to go down. This is very simplified, what this bill is about and how you should vote. Now, using the possibility, I'm going to try to make it as simple as possible. The government, the Ministry of Energy, along with Naftogaz, want to make calculations to clean up their financial statements. They have debts, and they have debts to lie and other subjects. And they want to do this wire that's going to have 72 billion dollars or 73 billion in total. So so that this wire doesn't bet VAT, and then it doesn't go into receivables, it doesn't go into income tax cuts, we, that is, they, the authorities are proposing a bill on tax changes. It's very, very simplified, and then there's probably a long explanation. But one more time. This bill is conditionally technical; it allows this wire between Naftogaz, the government, the special budget. A special accountant on the budget and, accordingly, entities that are partially nationalized, partially non, and in some ways, to close this debt. I will not personally vote for this, nor has our faction supported this bill in the first reading. But once again, as the head of the working group on this project, I'm going to say that this is a technical issue that relates to the previous bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u99	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Dear colleagues, after that, we move on to making a decision. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we need to understand the situation now with the consumption of gas, its price and the extreme complexity of our industry. It's essentially complicated, but let's look at what's going on in the country right now. First, we've taken a powerful step to support the gas companies, and we've deferred the rent based on the cash method: sold the gas -- paid the rent. It was the support of the state, it was a step towards meeting. What happened? That gas companies all: both state NACs, or Crushing, and all private companies attach gas to the vaults, wait for winter and price rises, create an artificial gas deficit and raise the price -- pay attention! - 62,000 dollars per cubic meter. In a state of war, when a state speculates on the economy and on our businesses that barely survive, it's not the same as on the part of gas mining companies, you can't call it. We're talking about stability and the development of the domestic economy, and we're killing ourselves with our decisions, our decisions of power. We can't support this bill until a fair, controlled price of energy is established under military conditions. Someone's a war, someone's a mother. So, dear colleagues, we need to support manufacturers and stop this robbery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now give the floor to National Deputy Shahov, and then we will move on to making a decision. And after the decision is made, we will have the inclusion of the Prime Minister of Denmark. Therefore, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. So the order is: Shahov, we vote, Prime Minister of Denmark. Please, National Deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u102	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we must take care of entrepreneurs who still pay taxes in our country today. We have to take care of families who fled Lugansk, Donetskina, from all the cities where mad dog aggression today has forced people to flee their homes. And today we should consider the families of those who defend our nation today. We're talking about gas. What about alternative fuels today? It's electricity, it's coal. And I'd also like to go to a profile minister. No wages are paid to those miners who are still working in our country. Can you please tell me when the profile ministry report on these issues will be? When will there be a report of families suffering without pay today? They don't want to be in trouble.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt Bill 7428-2 as a basis. This is a draft law amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine to ensure the stable functioning of the natural gas market during the war and further restoration. Registration number, again, 7428-2. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:00:11]] For 240 Decision taken. I'd like to ask if we should put in a shorter term. Because the last one we didn't support, probably doesn't make any sense. You don't have to. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, 12 o'clock. Five minutes later, the prime minister of Denmark is included. So I have a request, let's be in the hall, now let's take a little break. But I would like to welcome the presence of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the Kingdom of Denmark, Olie Egberg Mikkelsen, in the guest room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please, if you'll allow us to be in the hall. Because literally three minutes -- and hopefully, there'll be inclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, today our video session is attended by the distinguished Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark, Matte Fredericksen. Hello. [[Applause]] I will also remind you once again that Mr. Olie Egberg Mikkelsen, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Denmark to Ukraine, is present in the guest room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us once again welcome the Ambassador. Thank you. [[Applause]] Madam Prime Minister, on behalf of the Supreme Council, allow me to express my deep gratitude to the Danish people, to the Danish Parliament, to the Danish Government, personally to you for your strong support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Our nations are more united than at first sight. Let's ask every Ukrainian if he's read stories about "Standing Lead Soldier," "Crassalo," "Russalonica." Everyone knows about Hans Christian Anderson, because we're a people of romance, so we're all mentally close. That is only a small part of history. In terms of modern times, in these crucial days for the democracy of the world, Denmark has given its hand in helping Ukraine. You are in solidarity with us in the heroic struggle against the Russian aggressor. We are a nation of defenders, and therefore we are grateful to everyone who helps us to protect our land, our family and loved ones, our democratic principles and spiritual values. Denmark’s military assistance from the beginning of Russia’s full - scale invasion is invaluable. And we thank you for that. You, Madam Prime Minister, have shown real leadership in this matter. Yes, June 20, Denmark officially joined the Common Defence Policy of the European Union, and this was another powerful step. We are a people of labor, capable of being resurrected and being rebuilt. You have also recently made a statement of willingness to provide financial support for the reconstruction of Ukraine, and this inspires us. And to the end. About our Euro-integration aspirations. Over the past few weeks, the term "the achievement of the Copenhagen criteria" has probably become the most used not only of me, but also of many colleagues in this room. Yes, yesterday our Parliament adopted an anti-corruption strategy and ratified the Istanbul Convention, which brought us even closer to European legislation and signaled that Ukraine was ready to implement the necessary reforms on the path to European integration. We will work hard and sincerely on this process, and Denmark's support for Ukraine's candidate status as members of the European Union is extremely important to us. I believe that our people will live in a united Europe, as stated in the Constitution of our State, and Denmark will be our trusted partner on this path. Therefore, honourable national MPs, the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark, Matte Frederiksen, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u104	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, honourable members of the Supreme Council, I am very honored to speak with you today. I want to start talking to you about our famous Danish freedom fighter Kim Malte-Brun, who was executed by the Germans. Before his death, he wrote a letter to his mother. And I want to share with you what he wrote to his mother. "My mother, come with me. I never regretted going that way. I'm not old. I shouldn't die, but somehow it looks natural. You know, I don't have much time left, but my mind is bright. I see everything I want to see in real life. I think that my ideas and my inspiration will always be with you. I want these ideas to be lived by children. I want children who will continue to live in a light and free country to take the broad road. I want our country to be united so that every citizen of our country understands what we're fighting for. And I want to say, Mother, I want my only woman always to be sown by stars. And, Mother, good-bye. Your only son, Kim." Kima was executed by the Nazis. He was only 21 years old. Honorable members of the Supreme Council, distinguished national Ukraine, respected friends, 117 days you've been protecting your country, you're fighting brutal aggression. In words you cannot describe what you are suffering. Thousands of lives have been lost. Millions of people are forced to flee their homes. A large number of war crimes are taking place in Ukraine. A large number of people are dying. We're gushing our minds at you. I can't describe in my own words all the pain you're feeling. All these ruins. I could see what was happening in Borodjanka. I met people who suffered evil. But I've seen one more thing -- something that will resolve the outcome of this war. I mean, I've seen the great power of Ukraine. I saw a proud nation. I've seen people's iron will. You defend yourself, you fight against an enemy that dominates you in numbers and soldiers and strength. You've been holding Mariupol for so long that no one could have thought you'd be holding on for so long. You've been protecting Harks, you've been protecting many other cities. We're standing. You protect yourself, we protect you with us. Dear Ukrainians, on behalf of the Danish people, I want to express my deep respect for you. You're not only fighting for your country, you're fighting for freedom of all countries and for all values. You have to win because no one wants us to lose this war. That is, it is now a defining moment for Europe, because it will determine not only the will of Europe, but who we are. 70 years ago, European nations rose from the ruins of World War II and we built the European Union. The European Union is built on democracy, on human rights and on the right of any nation to choose its own future. For many years we boasted about these values, but the thing is that there were moments when we didn't reach those values, when we couldn't really understand what was going on very quickly, we didn't do everything we had to do. This, for example, happened in the 1990s in Yugoslavia and Ukraine in 2014, these were not the moments that Europe could be proud of. But, honourable national deputies of the Supreme Council, now is a very different moment. We need to show you and the world that our European values are not just words, they are what we live for. If we don't help you, if we don't expel Putin, that means we won't help ourselves, because your freedom is our freedom. All Denmark is behind you. The whole of Denmark and the whole world behind you. Together, we imposed historic sanctions on Russia to weaken its economy and Putin. And we're not done yet. The point is that Denmark is ready to continue imposing sanctions and further pressure on Russia’s invasion and Putin. But I know that now you need more weapons than just talking. So Denmark decided to give you the weapon, not just to give it to you, but to put it in order to help you overcome Russia. Of course, we provide humanitarian aid and financial assistance, and we will do everything we can to give you everything you need. Denmark has undertaken to help rebuild Ukraine. Many Ukrainians are returning home, and we are helping them with the exchange process. And this is the first step in starting to build up the territories from which you expelled the Russians. And then we will continue to keep our promise to President Greensky to rebuild the Mikolai. You made a choice eight years ago -- you chose Europe. There is no doubt that Ukraine is a member of our European family. I want to use Shevchenk’s words because Ukraine is a member of a European family, a large family, a new one. You're fighting Russia for your freedom. I welcome your desire to join the European Union, and Denmark supports the granting of candidate status to Ukraine. The road to EU membership can be long and difficult. There are requirements to be met. Thank you. Thank you very much. You know, the path to EU membership can be a long way to go. There are requirements that need to be met, that cannot be changed, but we support you at every turn. You belong to Europe and Europe belongs to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council, distinguished Ukrainians, 117 days you've been fighting, and none of us know when this murderous war will end, but we see your strength, your courage. I'm sure you'll win this war. And I am also sure that after the war, Ukraine will become a new, strong Ukraine. Democracy prevails, peace applies, and you will be free! Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u105	Madam Prime Minister for taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I hope that the decision of 24 will be as quick, as progressive and as positive as your presentation today in the Supreme Council. Thank you very much. Thank you, and we'll meet you directly in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! Thank you, Ambassador, for your excellence. And we keep working. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for his presence here. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please don't break up, we're in the middle of our daily work. We have the next bill, 7429. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2022 (for financing measures aimed at regulating relations in the natural gas market and in the area of heat supply during war and further recovery). Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include him in the agenda of the day session first. Please vote to include Bill 7429 in the agenda of the day, please. [[12:18:00]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Or we can vote because. There's a need, I get it. I realized that there was a need. Dear colleagues, then I propose to consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:18:31]] For 229 Decision taken. I invite you to take the floor of Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Energy, Vlasenka Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u106	Good day again, honourable deputies, your presiding officer! The aim of the project is to ensure the implementation of a set of compensatory measures aimed at stabilizing the activities of natural gas market entities and the thermal energy enterprises envisaged in the draft Law on the Specificities of the Regulation of Relations in the Natural Gas Market and in the Heat Supply Sector during the Wartime and its subsequent recovery, and to prevent the occurrence of crisis situations caused by armed aggression against Ukraine in the gas and heat segments in preparation for the heating period in 2022-2023. The draft law also defines the sources and funding mechanisms of the basic bill of compensatory measures and the stability of the natural gas market and the areas of heating exclusively from the Special Fund of the State Budget, namely, financing measures aimed at overcoming the debt crisis in the natural gas market, under Law 1639, the debts of past periods amounting to 76 billion dollars. The verification will be carried out by NCRE KP on the basis of non-taxable and tax payments of NAC Naftogazu, intermediate dividends of 64.5 billion dollars and advance income tax of 11.5 billion dollars. Funding of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's compensation for the costs incurred in carrying out its special duties, reduced to actual revenue derived from the execution of $150.1 billion in international and donor assistance due to the coming of the Special Fund of the State Budget for the Financing of these Expenditures, as well as the financing of the difference in tariffs for the amount of 38.2 billion dollars in the amount of international and donor assistance due to the coming of the special fund of the State budget. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u107	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. Yuriovich Aristov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u108	Honourable Ruslane Alexiyovich, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs has considered Bill 7429 — on changes to the State Budget Act of 2022. The committee concludes with a detailed report on the GNEU-Minfin draft, in particular that the bill is derived from Government Bill 7427 on the characteristics of regulation of relations in the natural gas market and in the field of heat supply during the war and further recovery. So the decision has to be made to him as a result of the consideration of the basic bill, we've already done so. Thank you all. The bill does not provide financial and economic calculations on the amount of income and expenditure proposed. Some of the provisions of the bill require technical and legal clarifications to reconcile the legal rules to the requirements of the legislative technique. The Ministry of Finance notes that the bill is balanced. Therefore, on the basis of the consideration of the matter and taking into account the need for its urgent settlement by the Committee, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 7429 to include in the agenda of the day, to consider in the first reading after the adoption of Bill 7427 and the outcome of such a consideration to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. But in view of the fact that the basic bill was adopted as a basis, we suggest that we also vote only on a basis. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u109	Thank you, Yuri Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, so please sign up. Well, two factions want to discuss it. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. Please, Deputy People's Dmitry Davidovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u110	Colleagues, an important bill. Please support and proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u113	Jaroslav Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u114	This bill is a little easier. But still, just to be clear. If you voted for the first major, vote for this. If not, do not vote. What is proposed? A $260 billion special fund is being created, of which 180 billion, even more, is expected by the authors to come from international partners, from our donors, they have to somehow fund our tariff costs. The other 70 billion are virtually billions that go to that particular race, to close debt with lies and everything else. So once again, this bill is purely technical to previous ones. If you voted for them, vote. If not, do not waste time trying to figure it out or simply vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Zagradni Yuri Ivanovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I'm asking you to give the floor to the national MP, Shufritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u117	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Our group supports this bill, understanding the need for a concentration of money to buy gas. But today we have to answer to our citizens in terms of military condition honestly, why the gas of national production, by the way, the state company that costs the maximum rent today, the paid rent, the 4.5 thousand dollars, why people buy it in the same company, I'm not talking about private companies anymore, for 62,000 dollars. I say again, in terms of military conditions, when we're hurting for the stability and preservation of the national producer and the economy as a whole, it's no different than stealing. We have to stop this mess and set the price limits for gas, which is domestic production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u119	Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. I understand he's handing over to Kucherenka Alexi Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear friends! Alexy Kucherenko. Now, calmly and professionally. Nestor Ivanovich, look, you're saying you need to buy gas. So Julia Volodymyrna tells you that a maximum of 2 billion at current price is about 60 billion dollars, you know? So why 264 billion? You'll balance the budget. First. I'm paying attention to all the majors. You come to the districts, especially those who have suffered from war, from gunfire. People say to you, how do we get the place back, how do we get ready for the winter, where the money is? And there's no money because you're so easy 264 billion at NAC Naftogaz, into a black hole, you're running on pretzels, on holes, on all their schemes. Now the second one. Please listen calmly. The Ukrainian City Association supported our – Timoshenko-Kucherenko – bill. You probably didn't know that. Didn't the faction's leadership tell you? So know, please. Now the third one. Remember the simple numbers of balance. If there's a wish, write it down, I'll make it quick. 7.7 billion consumes the population, write it down. 4.7 billion is TKE; 0.8 billion is the internal manufacturing and technological costs of counterfeits. The total of 13.2 billion cubes is what it takes. What do we have? 12.9 extracts the Blackfish, the Ukrainian state company. 1.7 billion is Naftogazu gas in landfills. And another billion are mined by Ukranafta. That's 14.6. So why do we have to budget this black hole -- NAK Naftogaz Ukraine? You're not gonna explain this to me, believe me, not us, not Timoshenko. You will be in your constituencies to your electorates, your mayors and your deputies, because Fatherland will provide a thorough bill for these two weeks, at the level of local councils. Get ready for this, my friends. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies, please. Oh, I'm sorry, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. I promised. Please, Nina Petrovna. And, dear fellows, after this speech, we move on to making a decision. And Shahov still, right? After Shahov, we vote. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, you're tired now and you want to hurry. In fact, these economic laws had to be put in place yesterday, they all needed a broad discussion, and today we are doing everything in a hurry. Remember, when we talk about helping people, it does not mean stealing 150 billion. I'm talking to some of the colleagues here who are saying, let's support people. Let's just not assume that we're going to spend 150 billion in a completely opaque way. That's the money that compensation for NAC Naftogaz, because there's going to be compensated for even less profit. Well, please be careful and responsible. We're against corruption that turns right on the spot, and it's all covered up in wartime. We will abstain from voting on such projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, please, Shahov. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u124	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, why don't we today look at the lies and transit gas that people pay for today, pay entrepreneurs during the war? Who today owns this transport system of gas? Who will be responsible for people building these pipes, and today we pay for every millimeter of that gas? Why don't we turn the fakes back into the state? Could it bring the gas transport system back to the state, as well as 150 billion dollars that will be stolen? Yeah, maybe we can still put control over every penny that's going to be paid off from people's pockets into the budget? Let's control it together, let's make a temporary commission of inquiry on this issue together, and let's be careful about this. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear friends, I propose to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2022 (for financing measures aimed at regulating relations in the natural gas market and in the area of heat supply during war and further recovery) (registration number 7429). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:30:46.]] For 240 Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have two laws left in the second reading: 5688 and 5689. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, wait a second, guys, I can't do that. Vote. "European Solidarity," how many amendments are you going to make? 14 — 40 for confirmation? Yes. Well, then, let's do it now. counting, counting, and 40 confirmations. Please, Engineer, what are you going to put on? How much? Three repairs. Corrections to Confirmation or Account?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u126	That's what I'm talking about. My repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u127	That's what I'm talking about. Who else will it be? Let's do it then. I'm sorry, I saw someone raise their hand for the future. Then let's do this, if no one else does, let's start with some adjustments. Is this confirmation all going to be? Two minutes, and you won't bet, will you? Let's start with those that count. Please 14 on the basis of European Solidarity and 3 on the basis of Voice. Let's start with Voice, that's less. Please, who will be and what will be the correction? Call the repair number first. Rustling.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u128	111th, please look. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the rapporteur to explain exactly why it wasn't accepted, because this law prohibits the actual use of profits, profits, profits, or participation in the park, for our own reasons. So if you're outside the park, you've paid 18 percent of the income tax, and the rest is yours to order, here in this case you don't have the right to do it. And that's a pretty significant invasion of property rights, because in the park we have to make better conditions for people to go to the park than others. So they're uncompetitive compared to enterprises that are outside the park. I actually want to ask, why do I do this -- hand over the Cabinet of Ministers, actually, the authority to write a manual on where the profits should be spent in this park? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u129	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u130	The position of the committee is rejected. Because in order for everyone to have equal, equal conditions, the committee proposed and decided that the income tax could be used by an industrial park company to work in an industrial park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 111th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Rušišin. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the argument of the parties. I'll bet this amendment on it. Please vote. [[12:34:38]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Please, National Deputy Ruššin, two more amendments. Please give me the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u132	127 and 362.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u133	Please, 127th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u134	127. The amendment tells us exactly who should manage the profits that the industrial park participant in the industrial park has to make. We're handing over these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers. And what I want to stress is that ownership has three properties: first ownership, second ownership, and third ownership. We take the right to command our profits into a park participant and hand them over to the Cabinet of Ministers in that way. I want to remind everyone that the main goal of entrepreneurship is natural profit, not industrial park development. On the contrary, we have to make better conditions in the industrial park than other businesses outside this park. Please explain why this is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u135	The amendment was rejected by the committee’s decision because it contradicts the basic concept of the distribution of income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 127th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Rušišin. You've heard the argument of the parties, the national MP puts it on the line. Please vote. [[12:36:16]] For-99 The decision is not taken. And 362 corrections to the engine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u137	Thank you. This bill gives local self-government the right to determine from the point of taxation of industrial park participants to its tax rulings, where local self-government is extended to the extent of local self-government. But I don't understand why we don't publish this, why we don't have this decision of local self-government to publish and put into judgment the community in which this industrial park is located, because this is a violation of the principle of the publicity of local self - government, decisions that local self - government makes. Please, Your Honor, respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u138	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u139	The text was rejected. Local self-governance, I think it's perfectly transparent working within its competences, communicating with its communities. And those decisions that would displease one community or another will be discussed in local communities as part of such a competitive struggle for investors and for industrial parks.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 362 amendment of National Deputy Ruššin, was rejected by the committee. The National MP wants her to be taken into account, so I'm willing to take 362 amendments into account. Please vote. [[12:37:58]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Then I have 14 amendments that will take account of the factions of European Solidarity. Yes, colleagues? I'll get started. First, please. Nina Petrovna's gonna put everybody, right? 39 amendments. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I'm going to hold you back a little bit, but please bear with me. Because we have two great laws in force today. It's about State support for investment projects with significant investments, so-called "investment," and about stimulating the digital economy in Ukraine, it's the City Act. So they already have a number of criteria for the participants and a list of the benefits they are given. I have a rhetorical question. Now, by creating as new, regulatory conditions for industrial park participants, my amendment is that it does not apply to producers of precious metals and jewelry. That's what 39 is about. I'm asking you to rule out these kinds of activities within industrial parks. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovina’s 39th amendment, is partly taken into account, but the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's 39th amendment. Please vote. [[12:39:44]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. The next amendment is the same thing as editing. No, it's different. 41st. It's rejected. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u143	And now, of course, it would be necessary for the reporter to talk about who we're making a new package of benefits for right now and what kind of benefits we're putting in, the deadline for their operation. Because it's very important that we all understand well that when we create non-competitive conditions for business, when we give preferences, that we understand why we do it, what the State will benefit from it. So my amendment here (I'm going to skip, I'm sorry, I'm going to announce the amendment): we've been freed from paying the "investment" tax for five years, and in this draft law we've been doing for 10 years since the application was filed. You can imagine an enterprise entering an industrial park, starting to work, making a profit, but one day, it's going to file an application without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u144	Committee position, brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u145	You asked who it was about. Participants of industrial parks. For non-competitive conditions, this applies to all industrial park participants without exception. And you're right, we're proposing, and the committee supported the ten-year income tax rule. And I, by the way, thank you to the members of the Economic Committee who have made a professional argument on every request, case and such an appeal at numerous meetings of the Supreme Council Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 41 amendments, national deputy of the South. She was rejected by the committee. The author requests that it be taken into account, so please vote. [[12:42:01]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 42. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u147	Well, I'm still trying to tell you that you're the laws of the economy, you don't cheat, the economy works by its laws. And no matter how long you go through these changes, they don't work. "Investors" didn't work? As far as there is, 50 applications are dealt with by a special body, and they haven't met one yet, because the ears of corruption are sticking around: you won't pay, you won't take advantage. So it seems to me that right now you would just have to understand in more detail whether you're going to be proposing to the state at all new systemic approaches to stimulate the economy to go to a level even though it's pre-war, I'm not talking about the development of the economy anymore. And in this particular case, these are all the norms that we've worked on in the previous summons, you've just reworked them there, they don't answer my question. You're doing this for someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u148	Thank you. The 42th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:32]] For-88 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 118. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I still can't understand what the state is planning to have from industrial parks. Imagine, a participant in an industrial park where the term “participation ” is not regulated. You can be a month, two, a year, three, five, but for 10 years you're free from income tax, at any time, you can imagine what you're doing? The second question is regarding 118 amendments. What are the requirements for an industrial park participant? Maybe 1 million, 2 million, 10 million, as I suggested, investments in the development of my company? Nothing. Or is it more than 50 percent more than the average in the region? Nothing. It seems to me that it would absolutely have had the law of being blocked now by the Ministry of Finance and still not to be considered. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u150	Please make the 118th amendment of the national MP of the South. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:06]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The next 142 is an amendment. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, we understand that the income tax may be higher than the amount of investment invested. So if in "investigators" we said that the amount of aid from the state can't exceed 30 or 50 percent of the investment there, we don't have any restrictions or requirements here at all. So I said, for every million euros, 10 jobs. I'm asking you to support this amendment because it defines for us at least some benefit from what we're creating now, where 50 by 50 is going to be useful, and 50 percent is going to be non-competitive conditions relative to companies that are literally doing the same kind of work. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u152	142. Nina Petrovna’s amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:28]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next 230. Nina Petrovna, too, I think, is yours. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u153	All the adjustments are mine, but it's very hard for me to run on the table right now, so I'm going to talk at all, probably on each of the issues as essentially, and that's it. 230 revisions. This led to a block of aid for the import of equipment and equipment and VAT for such entities. You've just been having a hard time voting for the difference in the benefits of importing precious VAT-imported goods. Instead, the government is operating a fully efficient and efficient VAT dissipation system in the import of equipment. You're ignoring what's already done and working and giving you control, you're canceling the VAT payment at all. I don't think there's any representatives of the Ministry of Finance here, they should be on the ledge right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u154	230 of Nina Petrovna’s amendment The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:59]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next 235. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u155	Please tell me, with your hands in Project 1210, 5600, these laws are already in force, they have also continued the term of the rule that is overworked, which is controlled, which provides understanding and incentive to import new equipment without paying VAT, with VAT decommissioning. And given the total impact of the tax on production, we understand that we can not give the frustration for 3 years, for 5 years. Five years from now, the payer will have to pay his tax debts and close them with his tax credit. Now they want to cancel the VAT, and that's all there is to it. I'm very concerned about that. You're doing this simplicity around here, so that all the organs are going to cancel out their work. So you can dissolve everyone -- both the customs office and the tax office, why do you need them?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u156	235 of Nina Petrovna’s amendment The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:30.]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 247. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, please tell me, can we now afford this failure to pay VAT in full again? When I suggested to you in the working groups or at a committee meeting to consider the very procedure for the decommissioning of VAT, for 10 years, break up, tie up the subject’s work in an industrial park for 10 years. But it has to be completely controlled and understood, even though statistics on what will happen to imports of equipment from industrial park participants who have no obligation to work in an industrial park, the deadline for their work. So I think that the profile committee here has completely worked with certain corrupt risks and hasn't heard from the Ministry of Finance. By the way, they are absolutely against this law, the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u158	247 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina The committee has rejected it, and I ask you to identify yourself and vote. [[12:51:01]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment to 279 appears to be Nina Petrovna, too. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u159	The territorial defense in the Poltava region cannot do the work entrusted to them by the Ministry of Defence and the Chief of Staff, simply because it cannot pay for the fuelling of the technology that is there to complete a full list of jobs. There's no money in the budget. So far, we're looking at a project that has exactly the same risks of corruption. Two hours ago, they passed a law on the elimination of VAT benefits. And now they're back for the benefits, just for the chosen ones. Then why did we vote on the previous law? We should not have voted. Then let it be, however small business subjects, for this is 1, 2, 3 groups had benefits from imported VAT. At that time, they had to be left behind. What are you setting us up for? Why does the majority fraction set up the entire hall and all the deputies who voted in favour of filling the budget when you are now canceling the VAT payment again?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u160	279th. Do You Want to Answer? 279 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina The committee turned her down. Please identify yourself and vote. [[12:52:39]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Please read the following amendment 282. Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u161	You know, we've actually lost understanding of industrial parks in other countries by this law. I mean, what's the use? What degree of control? Does the country’s work in this regard have a positive effect? We have everything where there's different payments or differentiation, or the ability not to pay, we usually use it. And there's nothing this bill does to control. So you're opening another hole for budget revenue. I'm sure in a year, or perhaps sooner, you'll go into the hall and suggest that these standards be repealed. I'd like this bill to be re-readed so that after working with the Ministry of Finance, and perhaps after waiting for your reform plan, which will allow you to resuscitate.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, 282 amended by Nina Petrovna Jujanina The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:15]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 285. Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u163	I'm sorry, my fellow officers, to review our approach now, and all the subjects in the area where the fighting took place, and who suffered, all became the only area of the industrial park. Such an approach, with balanced, prescribed, including and as momentary for the State, could be accepted. To be close, for example, to two areas, three areas where activity is actually taking place or where tax policy is being approached. That would be right. Now to say that we're carrying on such benefits and in those areas that can work successfully or successfully, I think that's our failure. I don't want to say any more bad words. But I'm definitely asking you to go back to the second and let the Ministry of Finance work.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, 285 amendments to the National Deputy of South Carolina. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:47]] Z-74. The decision is not taken. Next 288. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, this is an extreme amendment to the VAT box, well, I don't know how to convince you yet, maybe the numbers will give you confidence. On May 1, 2021, 283 decrees were made on the extension of VAT to 563 million dollars, and 148 decisions have already made tax commitments. So we've heard in the working groups a control system that the customs service can do when they import such goods, they put in a special regime, and then they track the fate of this equipment so that it won't be implemented without payment, so that the benefit won't be paid in vain, with a certain profit, by the state. Why now, please answer this question, why is the payment of VAT now cancelled by a separate category of payers?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna’s 288 - degree amendment to the committee was rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:17]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next, 341st. Nina Petrovna, please. That's the answer to your amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u167	What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u168	341th, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the two amendments that were taken into account the previous time, by the way, so many, when the committee worked the previous time, they took my amendments into account, but when they were working they rejected them. Is it that I don't give them, or that I should return what was thought out from the beginning by the authors? This applies to the directing of property tax and land tax to the development of the activities of the park’s participant. People good, please tell us the benefits we're giving, where do you think we're going? Well, this isn't a profit to be made as dividends, is it? When the state says at this time that we let you pay nothing, and the state doesn't say that and that you reinvest that money in your development, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, 341 of Nina Petrovna’s amendment The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:50]] For-78 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of Nina Petrovna of the South, which she wants to put into account, 363. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, if you appreciate the role of the state in our country, I ask you not to support this bill now. I repeat, please wait for your own project to restore Ukraine's economy, and you will take these wishes into account. Do not work under individuals you are responsible for. You don't have to do this. All of Ukraine is suffering now. Let's wait for your reform package and then we'll take tax changes, they're essential for the whole business. And this has to be a completely different approach. We've worked on these projects before the war. They were relevant, well, at least 15 years ago, not now. There are different priorities now. Please do not vote in favour of this bill. You're going to do a new project. You're going to do a new policy. You will be the bearers of the healthy one that needs to be accepted by the State. Do not accept shameful changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u172	363 of Nina Petrovna’s amendment The committee's been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:23]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments we've made. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know. We've been through all the adjustments that we've been taking into account. Now I have two petitions: from the national deputy of Magomedov and from the national deputy of Julia Timoshenko. They put out a list of the amendments they want to make, but instead they ask for 5 minutes of July Volodymyr and 2 minutes of Megmedou. Do we have a deal? Not from the rostrum, Julia Volodymyrna, there's a reporter. Please, who's first? Julia Volodymyrna's first to five minutes, Mahmoud's two minutes, and we can go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, as a faction we have very many rights both to Law 5688-d, and to Law 5688-d. In fact, there's a lot of law enforcement. But now I've taken five minutes because there's no point in taking this time. I'd like all the deputies who really want Ukraine's good economic prosperity right now to just listen to what I say. Industrial parks and technology parks were used in many countries of the world, but they were used in very strict methods. All industrial and technology plants were created only for those industries that are unique, that produce high-tech products that have no competition in the country where industrial and technological plants were created, so as not to destroy competition. Next. These were built industrial parks also in parts of countries, but with customs territory and virtually only for export to avoid damaging competition within the country. This has become a world practice. What is suggested by the whole package of laws that apply to our industrial parks? Now you're essentially putting an atomic bomb under the entire economy of Ukraine. Why? Because, in fact, the industrial parks you're offering are full offshore areas in Ukraine, where there's no taxes, there's no congregations, there's no land, there's no network, there's no engineering. So in other words, by creating an offshore zone by these laws, you're going to put someone looking outside an offshore zone that's going to be a sansifier to let someone into this offshore zone or not. And no conditions are discussed. It's going to be total corruption. Either you have to run all the businesses into these offshore zones, or you don't have to start anyone. Because if you run a part of the enterprise into this offshore zone and part of it doesn't, you'll essentially destroy the entire economy of Ukraine. Let me explain why. Because in previous laws you've adopted a list of activities that basically says that everyone can be launched into an offshore zone, not just unique high-tech productions that are out of competition in the country and can actually be produced with minimal taxes. So what you're doing right now is going to look like this. For example, the production of some ceramic tile in this industrial park, read, in the offshore zone, will compete with the same production, for example, the same ceramic tile outside this offshore zone. But the cost of producing someone who has entered the offshore zone will be incomparably lower than that which an enterprise can produce outside the industrial zone. And then it turns out that all the enterprises that are going to be left out of these industrial zones and actually off-shore zones, they're going to be uncompetitive both inside Ukraine and outside Ukraine. So you're essentially creating these selective offshore zones, which you call industrial parks, you're killing all the other production in Ukraine. You're killing the economy of Ukraine. I understand that those who have prepared, maybe these bills, have no economic education, don't understand what they're doing. But now I'm addressing every deputy in the Supreme Council: you still have the opportunity not to be a part of these corrupt weapons, not to launch this "nuclear weapon" against Ukraine's economy. And I have a request to stop this madness, don't vote in favour of these bills, and it will all be possible then to build on the right approaches that have been used in other countries. I'm asking you to think about the country right now and vote against both bills -- and 5688.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now Megmedov – two minutes, then the Ironborn – two minutes, the Gethmans will put 411 orders and three minutes – Nina Petrovna, and we will put seven amendments to the vote there, and we will have to vote as you wish. So, please, two minutes--Mahmedov, two minutes--Ilezniak, one amendment 411 Getmanchev and then Nina Petrovna, a few amendments for confirmation, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, please place the number 38, 39, 181, 236 on the confirmation board. This bill is correct and timely, because we need to create the most convenient conditions for the restoration of the Ukrainian industry. The rights of the people's deputies of South and Gettmantsev make it impossible to access the incentives provided by the bill in industrial parks for metallurgical, coke and oil companies. During the last few months, the rasists destroyed Austall, Austava Koksochim, Kremenchucki NPZ is steel, coke, petroleum products, these are big taxes and jobs, the country's currency exchange rate, exports, import. We all realize that it's very difficult to get external funding to rebuild these businesses because of the significant business downturn. So if the state discriminates against them today, I very much doubt that there will be an investor who will build new factories. Industrial parks are a tool that, once the fighting is completed, can restore the lost production funds and activate the technical and engineering potential available in the country so far, and with these rights, we can destroy the hope of restoring the basic business sectors of Ukraine's economy. Whether we are ready to deprive Ukraine of the potential to restore basic industries such as metallurgy and oil chemistry. Are we in agreement with the loss of billions of steel exports? Does it have a per cent import dependency on the supply of petroleum products from abroad? Not me personally. Therefore, I ask the presiding officer to place amendments 38, 39, 181, 236 on confirmation, and I ask that he not support them during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u176	I'm sorry, but we had a slightly different arrangement that I'm giving you time to play, and we're moving on. So let's keep going as we agreed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The railroad for two minutes, then the Gethmans for 411th Amendment and then Nina Petrovna for seven more amendments. Okay, and then we vote, we give her three minutes and we vote in a row. Please, Iron Man 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! You know, sometimes we have to study economic history. We do have Prime Minister Julia Timoshenko, who in 2005 had exactly the same problem, the existence of special economic zones that were offshore. And I'm grateful that she canceled it because it was a tax pit that everyone used to avoid taxes, and we're now going back to the same thing. Okay, even if you want to. You're all listening to the same finance minister that I am, he's telling us 250 billion dollars, we're making 80 billion, hole 150, at least. We've just returned a bribe to a car in this room, which was very unpopular because the budget is insufficient. We've voted to take $5 billion in partners, because the budget is short of money, we've already got 190 billion in Nazbank, and we're now doing tax benefits. Okay, you want to do this, but let's do it in some way. We have a common system in the country at the same time, singles, 2 percent singles, Dia City, investment babysitters, now there's going to be taxes on industrial parks, it's some kind of schizophrenic. Six tax systems in one country don't work, it's complicated. Okay, even if you want to. Tell me, if you're doing this, it's going to be more in Western Ukraine, that's a fact. How will we then return investors to Chernigivsk, Kiev, Kharkivsk, Lugansk, Donetsk, Zaporzik? Well, Nina Petrovna says, well, take one project that's going to be associated with the government, how we're going to restore the economy, now it's a partial decision that I honestly don't understand very well how we're going to explain not to international partners, but even to our citizens, why we're doing the benefits here, and we're ignoring it, and we're returning all the other taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, a moment of attention, a technical question, while you and I were preparing this bill for the hall, we've already adopted an appropriate standard in another bill. So in order to avoid duplication, I ask you to put amendment 411 on confirmation and not vote for it, not vote for it, it's a technical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone understands. The 411 amendment, according to Danil Alexandrovich, is provided for in another law, so for technical cleanliness it needs to be taken down now. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 411 amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:16]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Nina Petrovne, you're going to put 85th, 151th, 225th, 371th, 315th, 318th, 319th on confirmation. I remind you that it takes 226 votes in the hall, so I ask the national deputies to take their seats. Nina Petrovna, please. I'm giving three minutes to justify these amendments, and then we're voting on them in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I am now personally addressing the first speaker in this block to restore our industrial powers in areas that are still suffering from fighting, where everything is destroyed. I told you, these territories are supposed to be solid industrial parks, all of them. Therefore, no restriction is involved. And when it comes to restrictions on this type of activity in Western Ukraine or even in Central Ukraine, you're not exactly going to build a coke factory destroyed here. So it's very important that we understand the same thing and know that the country needs a real economic recovery plan. And these could be different choices. Now we're reading a lot of the experts who are offering. I'm sure your National Council for the Economic Recovery of Ukraine will also do something. And this will be the start that will allow us all together, side by side, to build the economy of Ukraine, not to use preferences for those old ones. You know, they move in and out of this law, they move in and out -- well, stop, you've had enough! See, you've moved industrial parks. What are you up to now? Make 20 million investments and work. Where are they? They're gone. So stop, please, sir. You are tired of making endless changes. I'm asking you to make 85 amendments just because in the first draft of the law there was a requirement that a member of the industrial park would have the status of such a participant for at least 10 years and those 10 years. Even that was canceled in the second reading. I don't know, honourable colleagues, who, I won't call the authors of these amendments, but understand, please, you want to make unlimited benefits. It's so wrong right now, at this time. I'm sure everyone who prepared the amendments to this bill was before the war. Now it's war. Make yourself at home, please. All the amendments that I've made to confirm, they provide more extensive benefits and uncontrolled existence and work in industrial parks. Please do not support and return, at least until the first reading, the standards that were changed during the consideration of the amendments. And I'm stressing, this was the second review of the amendments that changed this law to the worst, because the lobbyists just don't stop walking, walking and walking, extorting and extorting. If this law works.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. And now we're going to vote on these amendments for confirmation. The committee, I take it, is demanding that these amendments remain confirmed. That's why I'm going to put them on the line. I'm making amendment 85. It's counted by the committee. Counted by the committee, Nina Petrovna asks for confirmation. So I'm putting this amendment in for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:16:38]] For 217 Correction not counted. The next amendment is 151. It's taken into account by the committee in part. The 151st. What's 158? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we had a deal, so we're leaving. 151 revisions. It's partially accounted for. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the partial count? Yes, it's counted. That's what the chart says. Arthur Volodymyrovich, again. The list of amendments is written by you personally, by your hand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a second. Just out of procedure, Arthur Volodymyrovich! Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich from the procedure. I'll answer you then.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u183	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear colleagues! When I approached you, you said that Julia Volodymyrna's list contained some adjustments that she wanted to make for confirmation. But if one national MP doesn't apply for confirmation, that is, the physical fact that there wasn't a confirmation bill, then any other MP can do it. Why? Because the Rules limit us to just one: the law can. be at the confirmation only once during the sitting. Was the 88th ever scheduled for confirmation at any time at this meeting? No! No! That's why, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm asking that all of Nina Petrovna's amendments be made now because Julia Volodymyrna didn't put them on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u184	Arthur Volodymyrovich, I answer you immediately. When you came here, we talked to you about Julia Volodymyrna (her official letter). I think she wants to bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! I didn't interrupt. She wants to make these amendments for confirmation. She chose five minutes of the performance and did not give it. But they are. All right, they're losing their status. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop! We made a deal with you. Again. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I'm correcting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich, which one do you want? 88th set? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it won't happen again. We made a deal with you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Then on what basis did I give Julius the Volodymyr word, please tell me. [[Applause]] You don't know, do you? I'll tell you. Because I have an official statement about where she was exercising her right. All of it. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! The 151st amendment. It's partially set. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] We agreed otherwise, a great power of parliamentaryism. Nina Petrovna is refusing all the amendments except for the 88th. Let's vote together for Amendment 88. Dear colleagues! 88 amendments. The 88 amendment is the correction of the Rušin and Klimenko. Dear colleagues, the correction of Rušin and Klimenko It's counted by the committee. Nina Petrovna, ask for confirmation. I'll bet you 88. The committee proposes that it remain confirmed. Please vote. [[13:22:19]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. All of it. Dear colleagues! I'll bet. Please prepare to make your decision. It hasn't been in this room in a while, has it? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to create favourable conditions for the inclusion of large-scale investment in industrial production (registration number 5688). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:42]] For 236 The law is passed. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill, thank God, the less amendments, no one will insist. Can we move immediately to making a decision on this bill? Arthur Volodymyrovich, may we? Thank you. One minute to you? For what? Arthur Volodymyrovich, you can come in, I'll give you three minutes in my office. Let's finish. Dear colleagues, let's finish this beautiful day. I thank everyone very much for him. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to create favourable conditions for the inclusion of large-scale investments in industrial production (project registration number 5689). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:25:09]] For 230 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Alexander Sergiyovich. Wait a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u185	We propose that the Head of the Supreme Council be given immediate authority to sign the bills adopted today as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u186	An immediate signature of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u187	It's what it's always been. Please vote. [[13:25:45.]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I would like to warn you not to leave because we have heard information that there will be a decision to cancel for the first time in military time. Three days from now, we're going to take them off. So please, this is the graph.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u188	Your Honor, this is a procedural decision, you can put it again, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u189	Again? Okay. If the colleagues come back now, we'll try to vote it out, won't we? I think my colleagues are gone. Oh, no? Can I put it again? Okay. I would like to place a motion on the vote to the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the bills adopted today as a whole and to send them to the President of Ukraine immediately for signature. Please vote. [[13:26:59]] For 219 The decision is not taken. We're not going to bet for the third time.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u190	No, we won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u191	Then, colleagues, I'll meet you here soon to withdraw the cancellation orders. We'll let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-21-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. We're not closing our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of our next meeting in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, with us the truth, with us God, we will conquer together. Glory to Ukraine!
