ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for your electronic registration. I remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold down the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep it up until the end of the registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:01:38]] There are 215 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, in Ukraine, the head of the Defence Committee of the House of Commons of the British Parliament is Tobias Elwood. Mr. Elwood is now in the Hall of the Supreme Council. Welcome to our distinguished colleague. [[Applause]] The distinguished guest, Mr. Elwood, takes an active pro-Ukrainian position, strongly condemns Russian aggression and military threats, upholds the territorial integrity of Ukraine, favours further political support and practical assistance from the United Kingdom. Dear colleagues, Mr. Elwood showed a desire to give a brief talk. If there are no objections to national MPs. Is there any objection? I'd like to invite the guest of honor to the rostrum for a brief presentation. Is it accepted? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased to invite the head of the Defence Committee of the House of Commons of Great Britain, Tobias Elwood. Please, Mr. Tobias.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u2	Mr. Chairman, what an honor it is for me to address the Ukrainian Parliament today! Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Thank you very much. What a warm welcome, Mr. Chairman and Parliamentarians, Madam Ambassador, it is a great privilege to be here. For any British parliamentarian to visit another parliament is really a great honor, because we have a very long, very difficult road on the way to democracy. Sadly, though, our world today is going through a difficult period. Russian adventure, it scares us, but all the democratic forces have gone up against it. But this too. Unity unites us. And the world never looked so weak. I want to welcome you with your democratic path, and we want to express our absolute support in these times of trial. You have a authoritarian regime, a powerful regime that cannot agree with the direction you have chosen for your country. Instead, they try to impose their model of autocracy on you. Today, Ukraine stands at the zeroth position of the battle between authoritarianism and democracy. I can only say and commend for your insurgency, your nation. And I'm proud that the British government is with you in teaching, in helping. And I hope this goes on. But I also want to say that I believe that the West can and should do much more. When Russian fighting groups started gathering very numerous groups on your eastern border, I was the first to say that NATO should respond to your call for help and that we should put a division here in Ukraine. But we did not fully understand the situation, and we hid behind excuses because Ukraine is not a NATO member, so we have no obligation to help. However, NATO has sent its troops to both Afghanistan and Kosovo and Libya, but they, these countries, are also not NATO members. And I think, and I absolutely believe that the decision to show its power in this way, not to start a war, but to warn the invasion, is what the West regrets now. Because this big picture of what's happening now is now understood and understood. Because Ukrainian security is European security. And if there's an invasion, it's going to affect food prices, and gas prices, everything. And this is going to be a disaster for all of Europe. And where can Russia go on? But for me, a big bell like this, for the West, was that the long-term strategy of Putin now became clear. He wants to geopolitically unite Russia, move away from the West and unite with China in order to form a new alliance of the 21st century. But that's how we get into a new age of instability, because that can lead to a very dangerous interpretation of our order based on international rules. And in Western Europe, we can easily forget that Putin blames the West for blowing up the Soviet Union. And since the world is moving away from organic fuel, how long can countries like Russia rely on gas exports before cleaner energy is used? And Putin has been doubling both his gas exports and his military power for decades, and so that was a blow to what we stand for. And we understand the long-term goal of Putin is to unite the country with China. This is a threat to Ukraine in another context. Any sanctions we impose can actually help Putin convince the Russians that they have to get back to China faster. Putin and President Si, they've been thinking for decades, and we're thinking about days. All of our recent diplomacy has played on his Putin, he likes that he's under the spotlight, and he thinks Russia is now very great. And we need to understand that these are very dangerous times, because the West has to group very quickly. We need to remind ourselves what we stand for, what we believe we want to protect. Because as long as Washington, London, Berlin and Paris don't agree on how to resist Russian aggression, we'll watch and we'll act separately, and we'll exploit our weakness. We have to admit that this is a turning point in history. How the West will function in the coming months can determine what the years will look like. Perhaps a modern Casablanca conference is needed to help Western leaders understand the severity we are facing in order to strengthen our international ties and thus change the direction the world is going. And of course, we need strength to achieve what we believe in. I think NATO countries need to move to 3 percent of GDP as defence spending. Of course, it is too late for Ukraine to mobilize NATO. But it's not too late to introduce a nativity flight zone, a no-fly zone. And that's what will make Putin think twice, and I'll talk about it when I speak tomorrow at a security conference in Munich. I also want to welcome the new alliance that was created between my country, your country and Poland. This was announced by my prime minister last week. I know that Ben Wallace, our Secretary of Defense, is involved, is a great potential for us, and parliamentarians from all three countries can create such a tripartite committee to help move this idea forward. And I'm willing to do my part. Mr. Chairman, honourable parliamentarians, thank you so much for inviting me to speak, it has been a real honor for me. I am with you, and I will do everything I can to bring others together to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u3	Thank you. Thank you very much, Reverend Tobias Elwood. Thank you to the British Parliament and Government for the support that Ukraine has always felt. So let us once again thank our guest of honor for participating in today’s plenary session of the Supreme Council and for the firm and unwavering support of Ukraine’s independence and territorial integrity. Thank you. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies. Robert Ivanovich Gorvat, "Trust." Hello. [[Applause]] Julius Volodymyrovny Ljevkony, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Hello. [[Applause]] Igor Petrovich Marchuk, "Serve of the People." Hello. [[Applause]] And Vladimir Jaroslavovich Timothychuk, "Serve of the People." Hello. [[Applause]] Honorable colleagues, strong health and long - winning work for the benefit of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today. Let us go to their consideration. Starting with the first question is ratification. The first is the day-to-day ratification, which is the draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement on Urban Public Transport of Ukraine II between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (project registration number 0135). Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[10:15:27]] For 215 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Anna Stanislavna Jurchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement "Urban Public Transport of Ukraine II" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank is being submitted to your consideration. The bill is drafted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the Financial Agreement on Urban Public Transport of Ukraine II between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, signed on December 9, 2020. The agreement provides for a 200 million-euro loan financing that is needed to implement the project. The aim of the project is to implement sub-projects for the development of urban passenger transport in large and medium-sized cities in Ukraine, the population of more than 100,000 people, and towards the development of environmentally sound and socially significant transport, including measures for the renewal of tram, trolleybus, subway, bus, construction and reconstruction of tram and trolleybus lines, replacement of tow stations. Today, 18 cities throughout Ukraine are participating in the project. The project is a continuation of a common existing project with the European Investment Bank, which has been successfully implemented in 10 cities in Ukraine, showing good results. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite the head of the Committee on Integration with the European Union, Mr. Dmitry Valeriovich Ljuboto. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The financing agreement provides for a 200 million-euro loan to the European Investment Bank to finance a project that will support sub-projects of urban public electricity transport in medium and large cities aimed at acquiring a new mobile warehouse: trolleybuses, trams, subways and electric buses, or the restoration of existing public transport infrastructure, or its expansion on account of new elements. According to the explanatory note to the project, the repayment of funds (loans) is to be made entirely at the expense of the end-beneficiaries of utilities and local governments. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union discussed at its meeting on 26 January 2022 the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement "Urban Public Transport of Ukraine II" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and considered it appropriate to ratify it. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u7	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Pavlovich Fedienka, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u8	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Gorenjuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u9	The word is given to the national deputy of Gorenjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u10	Good morning, dear fellows! Horenuk Alexander, "Serial of the People" faction, the city of Odessa. Last plenary week, when we were looking at the electronic ticket bill, we had information from Tom's international company, anti-rating cities with the biggest traffic jams in the world. I want to remind you that Kiev was in seventh place at the time, and Odessa was in eleven. So, recently, new data came in for 2021. Among all the cities on the planet Odessa is in sixth place, Kyiv holds third place in the world's largest anti-rating cities. The same is true of Kharkiv, who has twelve seats, and Dnipro has twenty - five seats. And the only really working tool to fight congestion is modern, high-quality public transport. Ukrainians must get rid of outdated dirty yellow routes and get new modern - day high - quality buses, trams, trolleybuses, and other forms of public transportation. The bill offers this opportunity, and hundreds of new mobile units will be on Ukrainian cities soon. I want to draw the government's attention to the distribution of funds to the Odessa region, because it is in Odessa that congestion is one of the biggest problems. And thanks to this bill, Ukrainian cities will get new big buses, electric buses, trams, trolleybuses with pandas, air conditioners, with a normal number of cities inside the living room and a working electronic ticket, for which we have already voted in the first reading of last week's plenary. So today we're voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. I'd like to invite you to the words of Ukrainian National Deputy Julius Leonidovna Klimenko, faction of the political party Voice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this ratification, and this is a continuation of the actual agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. But we want to pay attention and support the previous speaker that we need to invest in modern and future transport. Because to finance existing routes that pollute, which actually, half of which work illegally, half of which don't pay taxes and so on, is a big problem. So, colleagues, come on, there's a package of laws in the Supreme Council concerning public transport, public transport reform, when they pay for a mile and actually for public transport. So let's go along with this agreement that we're going to support and vote on, let's take on the reform of public transport. Otherwise, you and I are going to take credit and finance something old that's never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, We urge our colleagues to put public transport reform on the agenda and solve many problems of communities and large cities, including congestion. Because if we have quality services, big buses, and it's clear where the money from the tickets sold is going to go, then the communities and the state will have the money to finance quality public transportation. And so far in this public transport, more than 40 billion cash are being diverted on the routes, perhaps to some, but not to Ukrainian citizens. Let's still do quality public transport services for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u13	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u14	Please give the floor to my colleague Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u15	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, obviously, "European solidarity" will support this ratification, but we need you to understand that this is only a point in solving a partial problem with public transport. I absolutely agree that we need systematic decision-making to change the quality of public transport services in Ukraine. At the same time, I'd like to draw your attention to something else. We have already ratified many of the bills that ensure that Ukraine receives funding from the European Investment Bank. At the same time, these bills come from either the President of Ukraine or the Government of Ukraine all the time with a systematic violation of the Supreme Council's Rules, because contracts are signed exclusively in English and do not have authentic Ukrainian text, which may lead to further problems in the event of any misunderstanding with our creditors. That is why I insist that in the coming week the plenary prepare for the agenda and put forward a bill prepared by our Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union, No. 6572, which will systematically address the signing of treaties with European and other international creditors and the signing of treaties in two languages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u17	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". I understand, Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I give you my word to Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u19	Beautiful. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u20	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. What I want to say is that all the draft laws, regulations, declarations, ratifications, everything that is being considered in the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is extremely important, but today in Ukraine it is a very difficult, very difficult situation. The so-called U.S. government partners, the United Kingdom, are pushing the hysteria around Ukraine about a possible invasion, constantly calling different dates, and these dates are moving, and this has a negative impact on the economy, the economic situation in our country. We have investors coming from Ukraine, we have an outflow of capital, and the economy of our country is suffering. On another occasion today, small entrepreneurs, shopkeepers, who demand to protect their rights, their interests, their right to work, have returned to the territory of the Constitution. And once again, the troupes are standing on the square of the Constitution, the area that, coming out of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is to guarantee everyone the right to work, and today, the troupes are being deprived of that right by the laws that are being passed in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have to protect their rights, their interests, make sure that small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine work. And one more thing. Since August 29, 2019, a registered draft of Decree 1102 on urgent measures to end hostilities and restore peace in the country, the implementation of the Minsk Treaties, has been registered in the Supreme Council. I ask the Supreme Council to return to this issue because peace, harmony and social peace are the guarantee of our economic development.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. After this. I see, yes. Please, Paul Andryovich. And then Krulko will be, right? Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u22	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Clearly, on this beautiful and important day, when we celebrate 130 years from the birth of Joseph the Blind, we will support the ratification of this treaty. Yes, this credit for the city transport of Kiev by the European Investment Bank is important. I would also like to add that large cities use the same credit costs. A good example is in Lviv, where many infrastructure projects have been made with the European Investment Bank. Today, at the same time, it should be stressed that the European Investment Bank’s activities should also be extended to small towns, to new communities, so that they can also use such a tool and build up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, who will be Krulko or Yatzenko? Cool, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u24	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement, which will open up the possibility of obtaining additional funding for the purchase of urban transport. But the only condition that has to be for all of these kinds of contracts is that this transport that is being purchased, or other things that are being purchased for Ukraine, are Ukrainian production to develop the Ukrainian economy, because we understand that these are the credit costs that are going to have to be returned. That's one part. And the second. We were told that it would unload the cities because of the big corks. So cork is not just because we have old public transportation or lack it, but because of the fact that we have natural construction in cities, unfortunately, without any general plans, without underground parking, without social infrastructure, kindergartens, schools, all that is necessary for people. So that's the kind of natural structure that leads to the corks that we see in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, have you all made a statement on this matter? If so, I will ask the people's deputies to take their seats, and we will move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, we take our seats, we move on to making decisions. I propose the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement on Urban Public Transport of Ukraine II between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (project registration number 0135). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:30:51]] For 298 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Let's move on. The next is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, of the one part, and the European Union and its member states, of the other part, on common aviation space (project registration number 0144). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:31:36]] For 248 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Anna Stanislavna Jurchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union and its member states, on the other hand, on common aviation space. The agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union and its member states on common aviation space is provided for in Article 137 of the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine-EU. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the parties will ensure the creation of a common aviation space between Ukraine and the EU on the basis of identical aviation safety rules, air traffic management, social security for workers, computer security systems, environmental protection and consumer rights. The agreement will be implemented in two stages, which provides for the progressive introduction of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with EU requirements and standards. The common aviation space will create conditions for new commercial opportunities for the airlines of Ukraine and EU member states, facilitate investment in the aviation sector of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u27	Thank you. I invite a co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union and its member states on common aviation space (registration No. 0144), introduced by the President of Ukraine, and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. The adoption of this law will allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for this agreement to take effect. The objective of this agreement is to establish a common aviation space between Ukraine and the EU, based on identical rules in the field of flight safety, aviation safety, air traffic management, environmental protection, consumer rights protection, computer security systems, and identical rules on social aspects. The designated common aviation space will operate on the principles of free access to the air transport market and on equal terms of competition. This agreement is expected to increase competition in the air transport market and can have a positive impact on lower prices for passengers and improve the quality of passenger services: for passengers it is a greater choice of flights and a wider range of prices; for Ukrainian airlines it is a wider access to the European market; for Ukrainian airports it is an opportunity to take more planes and get more passengers. So our regional airports will get a chance to develop. Thus, the implementation of the agreement will have a positive impact on the market environment, ensuring the protection of the rights and interests of the owners, citizens and the state, regional development, the labour market, and the level of employment of the population. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ljuboti Dmitry Valeriovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Mary Mezentsev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u31	Maria Sergiyevna Mezenceva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u32	Good Euro-Integration Morning, dear colleagues! Today's next historic moment for our country is seven years of very fruitful work, which applied to aviation failure, if speaking very simplisticly. But today we're talking not only about civilian security, civilian transportation, but also freight and mail. We are in a number of countries, such as the Western Balkans, Georgia, Moldova, Israel, Jordan, Morocco, which already have this agreement. We're talking about aviation safety, we're talking about the possibility of not waiting for months to confirm routes for foreign Louksts that work in Ukraine because the monopoly has taken all these routes away for a long time, we're talking about an open and secure transport market, when your flight cancels and you get not just compensation, some water and a sandwich, but actually compensation for your expenses. And our security, and the safety of civilian aircraft, are paramount. This is proved even by the conditions of war in which Ukrainian aviation still operates and provides safe transportation conditions. I also want to point out that a given agreement will also have an impact on improving the environmental spectrum of our work. We take on a huge responsibility to become more ecologically responsible. The rights of Ukrainian consumers come first, and we continue to integrate. I want to thank all colleagues who have worked on this for more than seven years, the Euro-Integration Committees, the Transport Committee, and the Ministry. It's a historic event today. Dear colleagues, we vote yes and we want to see the constitutional majority on the board. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u33	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Bondarev, Mr. Constantine Anatoliyovich, the faction of the Political Party of Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u34	National Deputy Bondarev, Fatherland faction. The Fatherland faction has always and consistently moved in the direction of European integration. The Constitution provides for our path to NATO, as well as for the aspirations of the Ukrainian people, and this has been proved to connect with the European family. We will support this bill. But the desire to move to Europe is good, and we need to make sure that our actions are consistent with European attitudes, attitudes towards people, and business. We have some cognitive dissonance of what's happening on the street today in the Supreme Council. Some 30 minutes after the work of the Supreme Council, no words were heard about the people currently standing on the street. They want us to pay attention to them and do everything they promised them. Why aren't we working with our own business? We're being visited by many delegations from Europe, and let's take a look at their survey of what they did for their own business. They do not raise taxes, but they reduce them, for example, in Poland, by gas from 23 percent of VAT they have reduced to zero. And that's business support. What will agrarians do in two months, at what cost will they sow, how will they work the FOPs? We're closing down entire economic sectors, and we're not paying attention to that. I'm sorry, dear friends, but I'm sorry we're doing anything, but we're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u35	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u36	Please give the word to Ivanni Orestovni Klimpush-Cincadze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u37	Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, it is clear that we, as European Solidarity, are absolutely in favour of ratifying the Common Aviation Space Agreement, the so-called Open Sky Agreement. You know that free movement of people is one of the fundamental freedoms that European citizens use. And obviously, after the carlessness, this is the next step for us from expanding and expanding our citizens' freedom of movement by simplifying air transport. But, colleagues, the ratification of this agreement will not be enough to make it work effectively. Because until European airlines are convinced of the quality and justice and the rule of law, and the quality and justice of our courts, our anti-corruption infrastructure, until then this Open Sky Agreement is not fully operational. That's why it's too early to hang a "open sky" medal on your chest, you have to do a huge amount of homework. And you can start with, for example, to finish, adequately complete the competitions for the Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, so that it will not be hidden, not in a closed way, to decide on a competitively inconvenient commission for the election of the Head of the NABU in order, for example, to finally make a decision on the closure, an immediate bill from the President, on the closure of the OASC. I think all this stuff is going to help keep the shipping market running and keep the Cologne agreement or someone else's tomorrow from shutting down routes for some European company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u39	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mamyan Suto Choloevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u41	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u42	Thank you. Your Honor, your honor, just a week ago, the second meeting of leaders of the Norman Four States was concluded in Berlin. Unfortunately, we haven't seen the communique again, but we've heard that a dialogue on the consideration of the political part of the Tripartite Contact Group will finally begin. This is a sure hope. The hope is that at the March meeting of the advisors of the four member states of the Normandy format, we will still see some sort of summary communiqué that will become a road map. As early as 2019, on the first day of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our faction registered the 1120 draft, and in 2021, it registered another draft of Decree 5647, the essence of which is immediate action for the cessation of hostilities and the restoration of peace, the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. There's no other way. Today we are absolutely convinced that in conditions, especially after a very difficult vote for us in the State Duma, we need to activate parliamentary courses between the Norman Parliaments. The countries of Normandy's format to demonstrate their desire to implement the Minsk Accords and to enact the laws they provide. The Ukrainians in Donbas must know how this conflict will end, and peace will return. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, please Klimenko Julia Leonidivna. After that, Shahov. Is there anyone else? Then we vote. Please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u44	Comrades, welcome! I want to pay attention, of course, to support the ratification of this agreement and welcome it, because we've been waiting a long time for "open heaven." We've been waiting. There is much more to be done, as my colleague correctly said, in order for it to actually start working. But I would like to point out that we may have a recurring situation that we have this week when, in fact, insurance risks have prevented us from being able, to many companies, to be afraid and to fly properly, and to be transported to Ukraine. So in order to avoid this next time, and in order to be able to resist Russian hybrid aggression, including at the international level, I pay attention and consider this an official request to the Cabinet of Ministers, we need to give our representative to ICAO, which is in Montreal, Canada, in order, including technically, to reflect cyber attacks, not just cyber attacks, but hybrid attacks by the Russian Federation on our sky, on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Shahov Sergei. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u46	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, of course, Ukraine needs open heaven today, but without war, the main thing is the peaceful sky. Now let's go down to the ground completely and see what's going on in the transport that every pensioner pays off today. The price of transportation in electricity is constantly rising because of what? Because today it's Kabminu's stupid politics. What is today’s price of transportation? It's the fuel. Look at the gas prices today, the solar system today, and so on. Even above European prices. And we live in Ukraine at Ukrainian prices, and we need to take care of that. Let's do it again to Kabmin so they can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies are asked to take their seats because this is truly a historic vote for the ratification of such an important agreement. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union and its member states, on the other hand, on common aviation space (project registration number 0144). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:48:40]] For 311 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues, this is a truly historic decision. Dear colleagues, the next project, 7062, was consulted with faction leaders and groups so that we would not waste time voting without discussion. Ready? Dear colleagues, then I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the Implementation of Certain Provisions of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine" (registration number 7062). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:49:34]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on, next. Please, Kozemykin out of procedure, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u48	Good afternoon! Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you for the opportunity to say something very important. You know, right now, in these moments, in Beijing, there's the Olympics, the Olympics, where the U.K. Assembly, they're fighting today, they're doing everything they can to make us all proud of our athletes so that we can see the Ukrainian flag, they're giving back to the enemy journalists they're getting. But I want to welcome today, ask the hall, our Alexander Abramenko, who brought our country a medal, applause and dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. That's, well, that's a good point, that's a very good point, we have to support our sport, our sport. Our high-performing sport. Nestor Ivanovich, are you out of procedure? One minute out of procedure. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine has just been passed. I'm asking all my colleagues to see our assistants' credentials. Their mandate until October 2024, but our mandate of the ninth calling under the Constitution will be completed in 2023. So, Your Honor, I ask you to settle this matter in accordance with the Constitution. And don't dream of sitting here alone until 2024, 2023 is a sleaghbaum for most people in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u51	Nestor Ivanovich, this is definitely not a procedure, so I would ask you for the next time, let's still trust each other, because when you raise your hand and ask for procedure, I'm giving you out of procedure, and you're not quite out of procedure. Let's trust each other because trust is what binds the hall much more than anything else. Thank you so much for understanding. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next question, this is the draft of the S.H.I.E.L.D. Decision. of the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine (registration number of project 6557). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[10:53:03]] For 242 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite the head of the committee of the committee on economic development, Mr. Evcan Oleksija Vasilovich. Please, Alexy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u52	Mr. Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee on Economic Development, meeting on January 27, 2022, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyovich, reviewed the statement made by the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Vladimirovich, on discharge from office at his own request. According to the outcome of the review, following the provision of article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, the Ukrainian National Deputies decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the release of Sennik Dmitry Volodymirovich from his post as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue, or can we vote? We're voting, don't we? Shall we discuss it? Look at everybody, no. All right, then I'd like you to sign in: two in, two in, two in. Two factions call for discussion. I can't deny it. Please. Please, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u54	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u55	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u56	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction last time that question was put into the hall did not vote, and today we do not understand how we can deal with the personnel issue in the absence of who we are looking at. We would like to hear a full report from the State Property Fund, not just by numbers, how much is sold out, but by how government ownership is managed in accordance with the State Property Fund Act. This was a key question when Mr. Dmitri was assigned to this position. That's why, given that we don't even have Dmitri Sennick in the room right now, his report, the incomprehensible reasons for this, the faction will not vote in favour of this proposal, and we ask that we now interrupt this consideration, invite Mr. Dmitri to the session room, listen to what the reasons for the problems in the work of the State Property Fund are. It may be necessary to amend the relevant legislation, modify the so-called so-called revenue expected from the sale, the sale of state property, and understand the assessment situation. I think that in this way, without a person's presence, without a full report, without the analysis that should be added to the people's deputies, you can't. That's why the Fatherland faction won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u57	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Artem Blackmore.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u59	An artem of the Black Seas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u60	Black Sea Artem, 131th District, U.S.A. Dear colleagues, this is not the first time I have asked you to support and please Mr. Sennick in his will, and to release, as it were, from the post of Chief of Staff of the Derjfondmein. In turn, I would like to point out that the agrarian committee has already identified this position in September and passed its verdict, which is to say that it has given an unsatisfactory assessment of Mr. Seninick's work, because there have been many, many problems with the state-owned enterprises that have been assigned to the land. This is especially true in my native Mikolai district, where the chiefs he has appointed are still looting two enterprises: the Vineyard and the Steppe. Dear national MPs, colleagues, I still urge you to make a firm but correct choice and press the green button, and let the person have a decent rest. And where he goes to rest, let law enforcement decide. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u61	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy Minko Sergey Anatoliyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u63	Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u64	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Well, you're not going to be violently nice, we understand that, man wrote a statement, and the MP's Party for the Future is going to vote and support this decision. But, honourable people's deputies, we call on you to be a Parliament on the one hand. And before we vote for the release of any official, we want and we need to hear a report on his activity. Where is this man’s report? In the previous vote, at least he was in the session room, now he's gone. Why do we always show that the Ukrainian Parliament is not to be counted? We realize that someone is deciding to release it, not to release it. But we're still pushing green or yellow or red buttons here. So the next time we're like the MPs of the Party for the Future, we call on our colleagues to monocoalize: show that you're still parliamentarians, ask them to report to you at least. Then they made similar decisions in the session hall. Thank you and vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u65	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zabrodski Mikhail Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u66	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, the man has written a statement, he wants to go. It's a brave step. President Zelensky doesn't have the courage to write a statement and go, and Sennick has enough. That's why we can support it. But I think we need to take this opportunity to raise a question, and how do we use government property in Ukraine? Why are state companies like Centrenerego actually committed to friends of Zelensky, Igor Valeriovich? Why is there a meeting today at 12:30 between the Supervisory Board and the Ukrnafta shareholders, which they want to share: me - the peaks, you - the creams, as always? And we understand who's going to get hurt here again. Because Igor Valeriyovich can't be offended, he had a birthday recently, and they were riding together in Buckwall. And the state is like this, the state, it will suffer, and people will suffer. And we see this attitude. Who will be given billions of cubic meters of gas? We see the same again. Because all of these friends of Zelensky, who have occupied state enterprises, who have occupied state monopolies, who are acting like the masters of life, even though they went and called themselves quite different. That's the question. What is happening to government property today? Why did Ukraine's state property become actually either Benin's property, or Ze's property, or someone else's? That's not the way it's supposed to be. And I would very much like to hear how Mr. Sunflower worked, what instructions he was given, what was going on when he was the head of the State Property Fund. Ukraine’s government property is to work for the people of Ukraine, not for individual representatives who claim to be servants, but who act as masters.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u67	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, then Skorek Mikola Leonidovich, then Shahov. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, it is good that the fortification was canceled. If a person wants to leave his post voluntarily for the second time, I think it's worth supporting. I remember when Dmitri Sennichenko was assigned here, then from the same rostrum, I asked him to make billions of dollars of corruption money from our citizens who were hiding some of the majors here. And Dmitri did it outspokenly. And we thank him for that. We have a lot of questions before we run state-owned enterprises. How is the trade with the ICZ now taking place? How does the Centrenergo question happen and all that? But if Dmitri had made the decision to leave the position, and, frankly, it must have been a very bad decision that he had made, then it must be supported. I really hope that his successor will figure out what to do with those state-owned enterprises that are now actually the source of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u69	Please, Scorch Mikola Leonidovich, then Shahov, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u70	Scorch, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, frankly, it's very strange to see that there's no candidate to be released. Last time he was not released, he walked through the towers of the Supreme Council, gave interviews, and asked to be released. What now prevents him from coming to the session room and reporting on what took place at the State Property Fund during his leadership? I would like to remind you that for the first time in the history of the Supreme Council, in the history of an independent Ukraine, this office has abolished the Privatization Control Commission and the Parliamentary-President Republic of the Supreme Council has been deprived of a supervisory function on matters of privatization. We don't know what's going on here for almost three years. There has to be a report in order to actually decide who will continue to run the State Property Fund, what will happen to the state property that has been with it for three years. The Society and the Supreme Council should know about this, and the supervisory function of the Supreme Council in the parliamentary-presidential state should be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Sergey Shahov. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u72	Fellow citizens, state property is the property of the Ukrainian people. And the Ukrainian people want to hear the report of the head of the stick. If the head of the holding company did not come, we should immediately make a temporary commission of inquiry and conduct audits of everything that was sold, and for what money, and why he did not leave the office, perhaps someone demanded something more expensive, and he did not want to hear the truth. And the second. A reserve that's empty today. At the expense of the reserve, there should be regulation of food prices. Prices went up 15 percent in a month and a half. Who will be responsible for the fact that today, Grandma or Grandpa, who fought for all of us, cannot buy a loaf of bread, tripled bread, three sugars.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (registration number 6557) on the release of Seninick Dmitry Volodymyrovic from office of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:06:23]] For 318 Decision taken. We've completed this question. One second, before the calendar. A statement came from two political factions, the Fatherland and the future of the parliamentary group, about a break with a replacement for the performance. I give the floor to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at a time when personnel issues are being resolved here, there are thousands of small entrepreneurs under the Supreme Council. I can say that the law does not work against them in Ukraine because they were not even given a sound today to put against the law, even though they had warned in advance. They are not allowed to go to the authorities, to Parliament, to the Supreme Council, nor to be discussed with them. Thousands of people, we're at war with Ukraine from the outside and with the middle class. There's a war against the middle class in Ukraine. And I want to tell you that we couldn't possibly understand why they're so persistently destroying the middle class. And we found two serious reasons based on our investigation. First. The chairman of a committee that is destroying business today, business, small entrepreneurs, has worked for many years with a person who has a direct bearing on Russian intelligence, a helper. This means that this could simply be a special operation against Ukraine, against our small entrepreneurs, against our lives. And the second thing we've set up is now that there's a monopoly that produces all the necessary equipment, it provides software to keep an electronic account. This is a monopoly, which also has a completely Russian origin. To get a sense of why this fight is going on, it's this monopoly and the picking of people, of small entrepreneurs, that money, that's what makes the enrichment of this pro-Russian structure, called Saturn, roughly four billion dollars in about a year, four billion dollars that are going to be removed from small entrepreneurs. And what's more, there's no alternative, they've applied an absolute monopoly. They said there's free software. But it didn't work, and people have to buy all of it. Today the middle class is being destroyed, criminal cases against their leaders Kadura Vladimir and Adamusik Vadim. Offenced criminal cases for the right to protest. We demand that we immediately accept a delegation of small entrepreneurs and listen to the leaders of factions and committee heads. Adopt the relevant Law 5866-1, close criminal cases and stop destroying the middle class, which means destroying Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u75	Heroim Slava! Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: Bill 7060. This is a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[11:10:38]] For 212 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the author of the decree of the Ukrainian national deputy David Georgievich Arahami.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u76	Thank you, colleagues. My colleagues, you and I have all lived through the next day's invasion, and I welcome you all. And secondly, we know that our voters are still nervous and waiting for Parliament to make decisions. So I'm proposing changes to the calendar. Work next week in the session room, we have a lot of laws to adopt. And I ask you to support this determination. We'll give a specific signal that no one is going anywhere, there will be no speculation that someone is going abroad and so on. Therefore, I ask you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u77	Thank you, David Georgievich. I invite the co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u78	The Honorary Presidium, honourable national deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting discussed the draft Decree (Registration No. 7060) to amend the calendar schedule for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call made by the People’s Deputies of Arahami, Motovílovec. What are the actual changes in Parliament's work in February-March this year? The week scheduled for February 21 - 25 for the parliamentary plenary session is February 21, and the week from February 28 to March 4 for the work of the national deputies with the electorate. In summary, the regulatory committee adopted the relevant conclusion and recommended that the Supreme Council consider the draft Decree 7060 and adopt it as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Labazuk Sergey Petrovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u80	Requesting Father Taras to give Johnovich the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u81	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to say that we have agreed with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work continuously, the Ukrainian Parliament, in view of those challenges and crises, and the threat of military annexation that the Ukrainian State is facing today by the Russian Federation. But at the same time, we agree that the daily order of the Ukrainian Parliament must meet those challenges and threats that are present in the country today. It's not just about military escalation around our border, it's about challenges of a financial and economic nature, of an industrial and food crisis that can affect our country. Our parliamentary group is ready to look positively at the changes to the calendar plan, but we are paying attention to a number of bills that need to be included and considered in this session room. This includes Bill 7023, initiated by our parliamentary group, regarding the zero VAT on food products. And we insist on immediate inclusion in the agenda of this bill in the next plenary week if we make it sessional. We are starting a broad debate in society on this issue so as not to allow for a food crisis, given that the country of Poland, including Turkey, which is not part of the European Union, and that a number of European Union countries have abolished VAT on food products since 1 July and have thus avoided import. This threat awaits our country. Today there will be a round table in the Chamber of Commerce, where we invite representatives of the majority, the committee of profile, and the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics and so on. So our "For the Future" MP group insists that we immediately consider this issue on a profile committee, include it in the next plenary week to consider and make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u83	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u85	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u86	Roman Lozinski, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, there are no other options in Parliament to work. All appropriate steps and decisions must be taken to ensure that the people’s deputies are in Kiev and are able to respond promptly. So next week, exactly, we're ready to support the plenary work, we have specific proposals for drafts. But besides that, I'd like to talk about March. Mr. Golovo, Ruslan Alexiyovich! In March, next month, we only have one plenary week on the calendar. If the Supreme Council is ready to work effectively, we have dozens of draft military bills, I now name specific numbers, let's add next week, and in March the plenary week, we only have one week of voting foreseen. Please also consider this suggestion in the following decisions. As for Bills 6566, the military assembly, society supports, is a necessary step, and it is the issue of the military, the issue of our Armed Forces must be raised first and next week, and this week, and all the nearest plenary weeks in Kiev. 5066: plus 5 per cent of PDF for the community, Bill Galini Vasilchenko. This is also vital because the cost of the terrorist defense falls on the community’s shoulders — the facilities, the means, and other important issues of the deployment of the terrorist in the community. Our priority is 7012:9 billion per army. And a lot of other bills. Mr. Head, I'm sure we have some drafts to consider from all sectors, but first of all, the military defence complex. And with Justice, the Voice faction, we're ready to work in Parliament to be here. Therefore, Mr. Head, we are ready to support. But I emphasize that the order of the day should not be empty. The order of the day should not be about anything, the order of the day must be military-defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u87	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u88	The word of Zimbaluku Mikhail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u89	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, Fatherland supports the draft of this decree. We want Parliament to work in the session room and approve the bill. We were on it last week. But look at the formation of the agenda: almost 50 bills proposed by Fatherland are not included in the agenda for this session. And these are national security and defence bills, the issues related to the protection of the population during the Coronavirus pandemic, these are bills that relate to increasing the social protection of military personnel and all categories of citizens. By the way, Bill 2141 is on the National Security Committee from December 2020 until the second reading. Three hundred votes and more we gave together then, colleagues, for which we thank. The Ukrainian Armed Forces and others are waiting for the bill. Let's include it in the next week so that the agenda is formed out of the important issues that concern Ukrainian society. Let's finally include those bills concerning the people who are now under Parliament, the so-called Fopy Bills. It's really urgent. Let's include a bill on VAT removal for agricultural products, what our citizens are waiting for today. Let's look at the bill on municipal payments and gas prices for the population. The "Paternity" team also offered a solution that Ukrainian gas should go to the population. As a result, these questions are of concern to all. The wages, debts on miners, and mining teams are waiting for the state to solve their problems. Put this in the agenda of the next session. The "Paternity" team votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u90	Please, Zabrodsky is handing over the potterenko. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u91	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Of course, we support what needs to be done. Let's work next week for at least one goal -- finally to fulfill the promise that has been made so many times to the military, to increase their money from March 1st. But we still don't have the corresponding draft law under consideration in the Supreme Council. This means that it will again be the abuse of our defenders. Then let's work. But I have questions, they say, that voters are nervous. Why weren't you worried that the voters were nervous for two months? When, from mid - December to mid - February, Parliament held five plenary days in two months when the whole world was meeting about Ukraine, except for one parliament in the world: the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, that's amazing! And today, when we say we're going to work, we want to see that these aren't empty laws, not just ratifications, notariats and eBays. These should be specific things: increasing the military's money supply, increasing the state defense order, as suggested by the faction of European Solidarity, adding 50 billion dollars to the Ukrainian army. The FOP Bills, there are people on the street now again, why don't you want to hear them? Those who do not ask for anything from the State only ask one thing: Don’t touch us, let us work in peace. Let's look at these bills, not just do a deserted week, or even worse, when you're filing bills for the destruction of domestic gas, about some of your "hotels" and the distribution of money, as you like it. That's why we work, but we work responsibly, responsible for Ukraine at such a difficult time.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u92	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please. After this. Kulinich raised his hand. Oh, he's handing it over to you? After that, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich and then we go to the vote. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Trust MPs will support the draft decision. We think it's right, we'll support our colleagues, that Parliament in such difficult times should work both this one and the next week in plenary mode. We must give a clear signal to the community that Parliament is working, that the necessary bills are being passed, and that is very correct. As far as the calendar is concerned: electoral work, committee work, there is no problem, if necessary, when the deputies work in the districts, get together for an emergency meeting and vote on the necessary things that will be important if this is necessary for our country. So we support, absolutely nothing changes, and the number of plenary days, it stays in this session and that was before that. We support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, then Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you speak well, but the truth is the following. Yesterday, at a committee meeting, I proposed that the order of the day next week be formed taking into account the proposals of factions in proportion to the number of factions, all the members of the committee, except the members of the Committee of the Servants of the People, voted in favour of my proposal. So let's be honest, and I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: you're the one who's designing the agenda that's posted on the site on Friday. Form it, please, taking into account the recommendations of the Mission of the European Union under the chairmanship of Pete Cox, proportionally the number of factions, taking into account the factions' proposals, so that there are laws that apply to people in the first place, their support, and the FOPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u96	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u97	Alexander Kowalczuk, Plaintish. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to remind you that it is our very political power, the Servant of the People, that our President Vladimir Zelensky forms and bears responsibility for the budget and for the costs that today must be provided to our political power, to territorial defence, to the Armed Forces. And I would like to point out that it is our political power, as the head of our faction, David Arahami, has been initiating the continuation of Parliament's work for another week. And most of all, I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, the Presidency of the Supreme Council for allowing us to speak out of this great rostrum at this difficult time to the representatives of the European Union, as was the case yesterday, as was today, by the representative of Great Britain. And I very much hope that during this and next week we will have even more speakers who support us, Ukraine and the Ukrainians in this complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Thank you for the design. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to accept the entire draft Order amending the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 7060). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:26:09]] For the 320. Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows! It is a wonderful desire to vote. I have a statement from two political factions and groups, from the Deputies Group, to the Deputies faction Voice, about a break with a replacement for the performance. And I give you my word. Four reporters, well, one day you'll be sharing, Lozinsky, Princely, Bakunec and Saucyuk. Please. They go out together, they take three minutes, they're sharing their time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian Christian people! Today, February 17, we celebrate 130 years since the birth of the leading figure of the Ukrainian Greek and Catholic Church, who ruled it during the 20th century.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u100	Joseph the Blind spent 18 years in exile in Siberia, in prison, breaking his hands, breaking his legs because he simply believed in God. "Through the thorns to the stars" is his life's credo. So I think that in order for us to be a strong nation, the church and the state must be together and pray together for peace and peace in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u101	We need to remember and understand that the figures in Ukrainian history are about our struggle for meaning. If the totalitarian regime had not been teaching on every street and at every corner of the street its monuments, destroying ours, renamed its names, taking away our historical ones, I think it's an indicator for everyone why it happened. It is important that we remember these articles and honor them. And Joseph the Blind, apart from his ecclesiastical and religious act, also as rector of theology academy, reminds us all of the importance of education in our world and in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u102	At a time when the Russian army is at our borders, the example of Joseph the Blind and many other Ukrainian movers should inspire us to be bold. He was broken up in the camps, offered to make a deal, promised to be released, and stood up for the last. He later created the Ukrainian Catholic University in Rome. Before that, I headed the Academy of God in Lviv. Became the founder of Ukrainian education. Fighting for the independence of the Ukrainian Church. May we honor worthy articles of our history and of our people. Glory to Ukraine! Praise Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u103	The blessed Terebovljen land gave a glimmer of religious and cultural, truly great Ukrainian Joseph the Blind. His will is still valid today. Please find time and read. It shows that it does not matter who was born, but it is important, as we love Ukraine, with our silent prayer and tireless work. Praise be to Joseph the Blind! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u104	Heroic glory! Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Out of procedure? Please, who? Clever with the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u105	Good afternoon, Ruslan Alexiyovich! Good afternoon, dear fellows! We had a registered decision before, until 7060, there was Decree 7050, which offered to spend the next three plenary weeks. We've had enough of the Supreme Council rest, and during our New Year's Eve vacations, last week we had a so-called committee job. And at the Saturday meeting, we also agreed with you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, that we are going to work online and in constant mode, daily. So I'd like to ask you to do your duty, give the commission to the committee, and also consider this week's proposal of 7,050, which was registered in "Smart Policy", on three weeks of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we really want to work on important laws that are: the budget, the defense, the social protection of the population. That's exactly what the state needs. Still, ratification is not that important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, next question. 6306 is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the provision of medical care (this is a re-reading). Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[11:31:48]] For the 220. Decision taken. I invite you to speak (I understand that, from the authors and from the committee, Michael Borisovich, right?) Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich. Four minutes, please, both from the authors and the committee. Please, Michael Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u107	Dear head, dear fellows! The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the provision of medical care (registration number 6306) has been developed to implement the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 15 December 21st. It aims to improve the effectiveness of the National Health Service as the sole public health service provider, improve public health care and implement the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of July 30, 21 "On the state of the national health system and urgent measures to provide Ukrainian citizens with medical assistance", introduced by Presidential Decree No. 369/2021. The bill proposes to improve the monitoring mechanism, to maintain health care contracts, to address the development of an emergency health system, to introduce a cluster principle for the organization of hospital districts, to integrate secondary and third-party health care into one form — specialized medical care that is consistent with international approaches, to regulate the raising of wages for our doctors and our nurses. In its conclusion, the main scientific and expert management is referring to this bill, which can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. The Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Law No. 6306, which was further elaborated on the results of the first reading, to adopt, taking into account the need to amend other articles of the legislative acts to which amendments were proposed, and other laws of Ukraine that were not considered in the first reading in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as to shorten the deadline for the submission of the legislative initiative for proposals and amendments in the preparation of this bill to the second reading in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules. Colleagues, please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u108	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini, she goes to the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u110	Come on. We pass the word to Olga Stefanishini and wait for her at the rostrum. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, our medicine is developing, but very slowly. And we need to make legislative changes every year to help our medicine improve year after year. This bill is designed to improve the provision of medical care to patients, to facilitate the work of our hospitals, and to help the state control medical services. First and foremost, we provide the National Health Service with quality service monitors that are provided to patients. This is very important, since this will really improve medical care for those who come to hospitals today. We have a register of orthodontic patients. These are those who have rare diseases in Ukraine. You talk a lot about it from the rostrum, but do you know that we don't have any patients in the hospital register? We make it possible for the Ukrainian government to take these patients into account, budget them, and that the whole system is tracked down in the electronic medical system. We're improving our position on patient support. These are the people who are already at death, but we need to provide them with quality services so that people can live for the rest of their lives. And we also make the work of the National Health Service transparent and strengthen the public’s ability to control the selection of management positions for this service. I am very much asking you to support this bill. Last time we missed four votes. Colleagues, please assemble, press the green button. It's very important, believe me, the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u112	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u114	Lady Bullach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, indeed, it was sad last time that, after burning such hysteria from representatives of the opposition and their myths about this bill, unfortunately, we lacked a few votes, and we are back in our first reading today. I want to say that this bill is very complex, it changes a number of laws in Ukraine. We want to raise the wages for our doctors and nurses. We have to do this not only with our wishes, but with our changes, for example, in the Pay for Work Act, in which this bill adds the minimum required salary to our doctor and our nurse. The bill changes the following steps of medical reform: it removes a second, a third, and it finally introduces palatative assistance. Palliative help today cannot be given to a patient of different ages with different limitations, with different diagnosises, it is very old and rudimentary, only in the last weeks of life can a person receive and claim palliative help. And we're changing it by integrating principles and the European Union into human rights to get political help, regardless of your age and what diagnosis you have, and what, for example, is a painful syndrome. If a person feels pain, it's torture. And this bill certainly needs to be supported in the first reading today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u116	The word is given by Speedy Annie Constantinen, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u118	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u119	Colleagues, it's not a question of how many votes were not enough to pass the last time in the hall for this bill. The question is that the bill itself must have been far from ready for more than 226 and more deputies to vote for it. And the question is, we need to understand that there have been a lot of fears, and there's probably still for the people, the ordinary citizens who get medical services, and for the medics. Our MP's Party for the Future worked on this bill, worked with the Ministry of Public Health and with the PIC. By our insistence, I would like to say that there will be a rule in the current legislation that the order of cessation of health care measures is determined solely by law, not by the law of the executive branch. The updated version provides for pay-advertisers for all health services for citizens. It has been clarified that the payment is possible only for services that are not covered by a medical guarantee program and for individual services defined by the government. This will greatly reduce the possibility of self - government on the part of individual hospitals and the National Health Service of Ukraine. Undoubtedly, a positive point is the prediction of projects that under the programme of medical guarantees, the public budget of Ukraine is also funded for the provision of medical products, not just medical services and medical supplies, as it is now. An increase in the wages of doctors to 20,000 is similarly regulated by this law. Although we will insist on the second reading so that the doctor’s salaries cannot be below three minimum wages, and the rest of the medical staff below two minimum wages. I think this should be reflected in a second reading of this law. And you don't have to be quick to shorten, to make amendments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u120	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Whitelighter Larissa.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians, today at the Supreme Council's consideration of a bill that does not fit his name. It's an updated 6306 on improving the provision of medical care, and I would call this bill on improving access to medical care. It's good that we've had enough sanity last time not to support this bill. Because it's disguised. The bill, it's an increase in paid medical services, co-financing from citizens' pockets, as well as a reduction in the number of medical and medical establishments. First, I would like to stress, instead of bringing medicine closer to people, the authors are turning medicine and health care into an area for the chosen ones. Why? Because after spending only half of the money in the health care budget on the need for guarantees, they obviously want to take all of these, half of the money in the patient’s pocket. I want to say to the majority: what are you doing here as a national MP if you've done the President's task of forming an insurance medicine? Instead, you are introducing a bill to which you are being paid. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. And we go into the pockets of our citizens, and we give Kabmin the right to determine who to live in, who not to live in. Have any of the majors seen that cluster? But you don't have any district hospitals left, and people will never forgive you. This law provides for the reduction of medical facilities, the reorganization of a secondary and a third. You asked the Department of Health how much would this restructuring cost them? We have at least 60 million dollars in Winnitz. Once again, I urge you not to vote in favour of this bill, because with the increase in wages, we're going to have a reduction in hospitals, a drain of personnel. And once again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u122	Please, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, and after that, we will make decisions. And I see Julia Volodymyrna. And then we'll make decisions. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Arthur Volodymyrovich, Julia Volodymyrna, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, this bill has high risks of balancing medical care through the unification of secondary, third - largest medical care and the introduction of new standards, attention, without justification, without explanation, and without explanation. You know, bills should not create problems, they should be solved. That's why we're going to hold this vote. And also, if anyone, or more specifically, of today's Ukrainian authorities, comes up with the idea of breaking the law, breaking the Rules to push into this law new anti-constitutional articles, for example, on remote voting, we will be clear about it and we will call for no support. Because we think remote voting is desertion. You don't want to go to the hall, you don't want to go to the resorts with the boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u124	The word is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, one minute is all I have. The little one, finally. I want to remind you that it was the "Serve of the People" that failed this law last time and they did the right thing. I just want to tell you a few important things. There are only three ways of developing medicine: insurance medicine, paid medicine, and the type of Semashka or Great Britain is free. Dear friends, our path as outlined in your program, "The Servant of the People," and in the President's program, it's insurance medicine. If you now accept Bill 6306, it's paid medicine, it's a reduction of all the medical facilities, especially the second and third levels, it's a reduction in doctors and putting them out on the street, it's essentially a genocide of the Ukrainian nation. If you press the green button, know that you won't dream it out of history, it'll stay forever. I urge you to vote against the red buttons and not destroy the Ukrainians, not kill them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee, to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the provision of medical assistance (registration project 6306). Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please vote. [[11:47:12]] For 241 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, there is still an offer by the committee to cut back on the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparation for second reading according to part two of article 116. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this motion to a vote to cut half the preparation period. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:47:48]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The lines don't cancel out. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill we're looking at is Bill 6508. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of quarantine (registration number 6508). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[11:48:35]] For 215 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the report, four minutes, from the authors and from the committee of the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u127	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the drafting of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the settlement of quarantine (registration number 6508) is based on the need to improve the interaction of government authorities in the face of global challenges, pandemics and epidemics. To this end, the bill proposes to amend article 29 of the Act on the Protection of the Population against Infectious Diseases and Article 4 of the Act on the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, by establishing at the legal level a list of restrictive measures that may temporarily be introduced for the period of quarantine. In support of the overall need to resolve the issue of quarantine, the Committee considers it appropriate to exclude from the text a provision relating to the extension of the competence of the LRA in part of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers on quarantine, since the LRA is a coordinating body and does not have the responsibility to accept government decisions, according to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. In addition, it is necessary to define a transitional period to ensure the smooth implementation of the COVID-19 proliferation measures that are now in place. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to delete paragraph 5 of paragraph 1 as well as paragraph 2 of section I of section I of the text of the bill and to complete the bill with a new paragraph 2 of the following content: "To establish that the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to impose quarantine and to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19, which have been adopted to take effect by this law, shall continue to act in accordance with this law, but not more than three months from the date of entry into force of this law." According to the draft bill, registration number 6508, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be accepted on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the need to amend other structural parts or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, as well as to shorten the deadline for the submission by the entities of the right to legislative initiative for proposals and amendments in the preparation of the bill to the second reading in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules. Colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? It is, isn't it? Or shall we vote to 12? Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. But if someone logs in and saves time, I will be very grateful. Please, Trelyak's Galina Mikolayevna, faction of the "Serve of the People" Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u130	Lady Bullach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u131	Colleagues, the law is very simple and small. If you open it, you see that the main change is in article 29 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases. The problem of overcoming the Coronavirus is not only our past, but quarantine is an essential method of responding to the state and all executive authorities in overcoming this epidemic and the Ministry of Health has initiated changes to this Ukrainian law. To date, any restrictions on the constitutional rights and freedoms of a Ukrainian citizen can only be noted in the Constitution of Ukraine or in other laws of Ukraine. That's why we've proposed in the Ukrainian People's Protection Against Infectious Disease Act to establish not only a quarantine procedure, but also a specific list of measures that can be taken by the government, the Ministry of Health and other executive authorities to overcome this epidemic in one or more areas of Ukraine. In six areas, quarantine is determined by the decision of the Ministry of Health, according to the Government’s Ministry of Health. If the number of quarantined areas is more than six, it will still be established with the inclusion of an MPA. Today, there is no such procedure, all restrictions are imposed by regulations, and may vary greatly in various areas, sometimes even beyond the authority of local authorities. This list should therefore be clear and clear for each district administration. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u132	Thank you. I invite you, please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u133	Thank you, Mr. Head. Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. My dear colleagues, of course, we have carefully considered the bill. We believe that it is important because, as of today, all the issues related to, say, the spread of disease on COVID, other infectious diseases, they, both within the world and in Ukraine, pose a real problem and a threat to the lives of many people today, so the issues that regulate all the procedural moments involved in the establishment of quarantine zones, certain restrictions on citizens when moving, entering, leaving, these issues need to be addressed, taking into account today’s circumstances, in order to regulate existing legislation. Because we understand that the People's Protection Against Infectious Disease Act takes all these moments into account, but the real situation suggests that we need to make adjustments. So the Trust MP group will vote in favour of the bill and we would certainly recommend that certain issues be discussed in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u134	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shapovalov Jury Anatoliyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u135	Please pass the word "Constankevitch" to Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u136	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the bill, which is formulated there, has the right to life. But those mechanisms that are proposed are unfortunately not fully in line with both the Ukrainian Constitution and with what the Ukrainian Constitution guarantees to every citizen. Those restrictions that are laid down in this bill are unfortunately contrary to the Constitution, and we have to make this clear. Therefore, given this key position of this bill, the MPs of our Group "For the Future" will not support this bill, and we believe it needs to be further elaborated. Next, we think we can't even allow any discussion of electronic voting until they find social support. And in general, all the standards that have a profound impact on the lives of our citizens should be discussed in public. And the third moment. If the bill is proposed by honourable colleagues, it is necessary to develop a terminology, a comprehensible apparatus, and then take it to the hall. So I urge you not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. And I'm asking you not to delay, because after the break we're going to have two more speeches and then we're going to vote for this bill. At 12:30, everyone please be in the hall. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider the issue of the order of the day. We've got a few shows left. I'm inviting you. Recorded Stefanisine, passed by Pippa, the Voice faction. Please, People's Lady Pip.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u140	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Voice faction, the Justice Group, Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv. We'll support this bill, it's necessary, it's technical. It has to do with allowing us to get out normally at last from the Coronavirus pandemic. And I'm very happy that she's going down. But first, we have the problem of the front. And when we are preparing for the protection of Ukraine, the sovereignty of its borders, there is a pandemic of corruption and non-professionalism in the Ministry of Education. While you and I are all thinking about how to protect Ukraine's sovereignty, the Ministry of Education has several things where the law is clearly broken. The first is the question of the electorate at Kharkiv University of Biotechnology. The second is the question of the chancellor's election at the Kiev-Mogilian Academy, where the minister broke the law by writing a re-election order, a second decision. Yeah, he's canceling now. But this does not change what was appointed. Next. Now there's a lot of questions to the National Commission on Public Language, where there's a raid and what's there, where the minister tells people who are breaking the law, who don't have the authority to release their heads, to go to the registrar. It's all happening at a time when, once again, we're preparing for war. He was also appointed as Rector of the Lutsky Aviation University, which is a regional and is subject to the Illustration Act. I, here are the national MPs who are not prepared to tolerate corruption and who are in pain for the quality education of Ukraine, we are collecting signatures for the consecutive session and the resignation of Scarlet. In addition to corruption, there is non-professionalism, such as failed school feeding reform, such as unapproved passports.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. After that, I see Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk and Mamka, right? I'm recording now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, I am grateful that you have removed the RNB from this bill. It's important, I hope he doesn't show up there again. We're not going to support it because, besides that, there's really a lot of norms that are very controversial. And listen, he doesn't take into account the medical records for the treatment of subordination in the medical field, he excludes the provision of additional emergency care, for example, in the form of the establishment of temporary health facilities as necessary. It does not take into account and completely excludes preventive measures to prevent the spread of safe infectious diseases and so forth. If this is included in the second reading, of course we will support it. And once again, I would like to remind you that if anyone, and more specifically the Ukrainian authorities, comes up with the idea of putting desertion into this bill with separate rights in the form of a remote vote, we warn you, this is not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u143	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u144	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the "Fatherland" faction in the first reading supports the bill. We really believe that advertising and quarantine should be in place throughout the country in connection with certain conditions today. But we do believe, as the committee head has said, that by the second reading, there will not be exactly rules in the body of the bill concerning the authorization of the National Security and Defence Council, which according to 107 articles of the Constitution is an advisory body. And when the President introduces a decision by order of the MPO, he will go beyond his authority, in this case with regard to quarantine more than six areas, as proposed by the bill. For the second reading, we will introduce adjustments that will improve it, and we believe that it will be perfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Grigory Mikolaiovich. To save our time, I thank you very much for your constructive position. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Please take your seats and prepare for the decision. I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee, to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of quarantine (project registration number 6503). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? 6508. Ready to vote? Bill number 6508. Please vote. [[12:41:25]] For 246 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. There is another proposal for a committee that I have to make, they propose to cut in half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments for the preparation of the second reading according to part two of article 116 of the Rules. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote on this proposal? Please vote. [[12:42:01]] For-191 The decision is not taken. So the lines don't cancel out. Thank you, colleagues, let's move on. We have the next bill. And the next is a re-examination with proposals from the President of Ukraine, the President's veto on two bills. Dear colleagues, I'll just remind you, right now we're going to consider overcoming the President's veto, a more faithful consideration of the bill for re-examination with proposals by the President of Ukraine: the Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration number 3475). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this is a special procedure, which is foreseen in the 134th article of the Rules, which is covered by the report of the President's Representative, within 10 minutes, the answer to the question from the deputies' factions, within 3 minutes, the report of the Main Committee, within 5 minutes, the co-rapporteur's answer to the question, within 3 minutes. And then we vote in turn on what proposals there are. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine of Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich, in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, on November 16th of last year, you and I passed the Law of Registration 3475 on Administrative Procedure. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky supports the adoption of the bill in every way, considers it to be a positive one, and supports the need to harmonize administrative dispute procedures with the participation of authorities. At the same time, the President of Ukraine believes that in order to ensure an optimal balance of interests between public and private, national security and defence interests, the national interests of the State and the constitutional rights, human rights and citizens in the spirit of the rule of law, the priority of human rights as proclaimed by the Constitution of Ukraine, this law has certain shortcomings that the President believes must be addressed. First of all, it's about the fact that paragraph 2 of part two of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Procedure provides for a list of social relations that are derived from these administrative procedures. This is particularly the case with criminal persecution. criminal conduct, I apologize for the execution, except for the prosecution of administrative procedures, notarial actions, intelligence and counter-intelligence, intelligence and counter-intelligence, intelligence and counter-intelligence, and so on. At the same time, according to the President, paragraph 2 of part two of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Procedure does not provide for the exclusion from the scope of this law of such important issues as receiving asylum in Ukraine, granting citizenship, granting refugee status, with the award of national security awards. So the President of Ukraine proposes that section 2 of section 2 of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Procedure should be presented in a new edition, taking into account the areas that I have just pointed out. In addition, the Law on Administrative Procedure provides that it shall take effect 12 months from the date of its publication. And the same term provides for the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine appropriate legislative acts of the executive authorities to unify these procedures arising out of the Law on Administrative Procedure. Since the Cabinet of Ministers is also obliged to do so within 12 months, and the law becomes effective after 12 months, the President believes that there is a real threat to the emergence of certain legal commissions regarding the harmonization of the issues provided for in the bill by this law. Thus, the President of Ukraine proposes that the law take effect, not 12 months later, but 18 months after its official publication. This will ensure that the Cabinet of Ministers regulates and adopts by the Cabinet of Ministers all the legal and regulatory acts that are provided for in this law and are necessary for its implementation to be implemented. Therefore, on behalf of the President of Ukraine, I ask you to support these proposals by the President and to vote on them in the second reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u147	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Let us now consider the answers to questions raised by the MPs. I'd like the MPs to sign up for a question to the reporter, which takes up to three minutes. Please. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u148	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u149	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u150	Thank you. The honourable reporter, frankly, we're in a difficult position, you know, because we haven't had a representative of the President in Parliament for months now, obviously this is a demonstration of the President's attitude towards Parliament. And now there are none of the officials in the office who have been preparing this veto. I know you weren't directly involved in the preparations, so I don't know if you can answer the question, but the question is very simple. This is a bill that the Cabinet of Ministers introduced to Parliament a year and a half ago. During this time, the Ministry of Justice, authorized by the government, participated in dozens of working groups, committee meetings, factions where we found compromises on all issues that, among other things, they said were consistent with the Office of the President. The bill is now submitted to the President, and the Cabinet of Ministers recommends that it be signed without vetoing and making appropriate proposals. Please tell me why the President doesn't trust the Cabinet so much. What can happen is that all the work that the President does.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan, for your question. In response to your reply regarding the representative of the President, I would like to remind you of part two of article 134 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which expressly empowers the President to identify a single official who will report on his veto. The president took advantage of this right and appointed the national deputy of Venislavski to report his veto. With regard to your second question, I would like to point out that, in the President's view, for example, there might be a very interesting situation where a person who wants refugee status, but there is no reason for that, will make the necessary statements to the President, bring the relevant witnesses, and in doing so will be required to do what is not in favour of Ukraine's national interests, but in its opinion they should be done. Therefore, it was necessary to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nagorniak Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u153	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, thousands of private entrepreneurs are under the walls of Parliament. I demand the government to create an immediate commission with the Prime Minister, to include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Tax Inspectorate, the Tax Inspection Committee and find solutions for private entrepreneurs. How many people can walk under walls to demand of us a law or a law? Do we need a Kazakh script or what? Thousands of people today face law enforcement authorities. Who gave the command to the law enforcement authorities to disperse these people? There are ordinary, ordinary people from Jaskov, from Mankowka, from Lissionka, from other small cities. FOPs from those small cities cannot earn the same amount that FOPs earn in Kiev. The government needs to create a commission urgently, call on a negotiating group of private entrepreneurs, and find solutions. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u154	Thank you. But I remind you, we're looking at the President's proposals, the honourable colleagues. Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich, time for the interview is over. I invite a co-rapporteur, a representative, this is the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of the organization of state authority, local self-government, regional development and the construction of the Belarus of Larissa Mikolayovna. Larissa Mikolayevna, your time is up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! The Committee of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization at its meeting on 14 December considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Law on Administrative Procedure (draft registration number 3475). Colleagues, the committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with section 4 and article 5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, that all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Procedure should be supported by the extension of the scope of non-extension of the law on relations arising from the application of legislation on national security and defence, citizenship, asylum in Ukraine, awards of State awards and pardons, and proposals for increasing the legal validity and adoption of the law as a whole. We're also informed that the committee has received a letter from the SIGMA Governance and Management Support Programme, which is actually the Venice Commission in the sphere of government, where our European colleagues say that the inclusion of the President's proposals in the Administrative Procedure Act will not change the fact that the law meets the principles of government. The swift approval and signature of the law will be an important and long-awaited achievement for the rule of law and the reform of government. My colleagues, I would like to point out that the bill has really come out of quality, meeting European standards. The President's remarks are irrelevant and conceptually do not change the law, the proposals are not critical, correct and, above all, do not break the concept of the law. We can see that it's simply outlawed by the law of State rewards, pardons. I think the Cabinet of Ministers, if they were better off going to our working groups and even if they were to go and protect (in fact, where Mr. Nemchinov is not clear again) this law, I don't think we'd be so flawed. Well, we've seen it before. So I think the president's remarks are right, and you have to adopt this bill, it's got to be good. And I think we need to adopt it today, because our citizens and business need this law very much. For over six months, we have worked with a wide range of EU experts 4 PAR, SIGMA, scientists in the field of administrative law, public administration, representatives of the professional ministries, the judiciary, international experts, and we have been working on a draft for second reading within the working group on the basis of our committee. We discussed in detail and agreed to each of his standards, believe me, we went through every standard, and it's a law on the human face of local governments, ministries, armies. These are the only rules for the adoption of individual acts that take into account the standards of independent governance for all executive authorities and local self-government that will change the philosophy of relations between citizens and officials in Ukraine. At present, we have a chaotic legal regime for the adoption of administrative procedures, and such procedures can be even fundamentally different. This legislation is only in Ukraine and Russia, and we have to change it and bring all the lines, and bring all the administrative procedures to the only ones in Ukraine's legislation. And by these proposals of the President, we're giving the government the opportunity to do this not for a year and a half. That's why I think we're going to meet them, but we're going to monitor the implementation of those provisions of the law that oblige the government to make changes to dozens of laws in order to bring them into line with the Law on Administrative Procedure. Please have your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now we are. Wait, wait, Larissa, let me ask you a question. Then we go to the questions to the co-rapporteur. This takes up to three minutes. After that, we will, fellow honourable Members, vote on each proposal of the President separately, and then the law again. That's why I want to invite the people's deputies to the hall, because in three minutes we're going to vote for the President of Ukraine's proposals. And now I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Please, colleagues. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u157	Please give the floor to my colleague, Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u158	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u159	I have a question not for the reporter, but for the President's veto. According to the Constitution, they may be in the form of a direct veto when it is proposed to reject the whole bill, or in the form of specific procedures, which are formulated in the form of specific proposals for specific legislation. So let's take these so-called proposals, here's just one suggestion: this is making changes to part two of the second article of the law, expressed as a specific proposal for legislation. All the rest are, as the President writes, his warnings and remarks to the circle of some problems, and then our committee should write specific rules on the basis of these warnings. This has happened many times, and this time it happened. So it's not clear to me that this is the President's proposal or the committee's proposal? Did the President mean that he would write down the committee accordingly, taking into account his thinking, as it were? We have had this problem a number of times, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u160	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u161	I want to point out once again that the President's proposal was two. The first proposal is that we issue and exclude from this law the award of State rewards and pardons, and the application of national security and defence legislation. The second proposal is to transpose the law. Introducing it 18 months from the date of publication of this law. All the President's proposals were unanimously supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u164	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleague, would you please state the position of the committee, which was the basis for the committee's adoption of an 18-month proposal for a bill that needs people in us today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u166	In fact, here we're giving the Cabinet of Ministers the opportunity to prepare drafts, a very large number to bring them into line, although even in terms, this is every ministry that has to work. And that's close. In fact, there are about 80 laws that need to be amended, and some count even more. That's why it's 12 months they have, for 12 months, that the Cabinet should be making proposals for the Supreme Council to bring legislation into line with the law, and it's still going to be able to work another half year, to make changes to those laws, because that is to say, to continue it for 18 months, because a very large set of laws that have to be brought into line with the Law on Administrative Procedure in terms of, basically, basic things, and this applies to almost every ministry. It really takes about a year and a half to be realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u167	Thank you, Larissa Mikolayevna. Please take your seat. [[B in m in s a l in]] Zero, zero, zero, what do you mean, not red? Zero, zero, zero. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear friends, please prepare for the vote. We will now vote in turn on the proposals of the President of Ukraine in the order in which they are presented by the President of Ukraine. People's deputies please take their seats. I remind you that we are now considering the Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Act with proposals from the President of Ukraine (registration number 3475). Ready, fellows of honor? In turn, you understand, there are two proposals from the President of Ukraine, so I'm going to take turns. Dear colleagues, I am voting on proposal number one of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Act (project registration number 3475). Ready to vote? Proposal number one shall be voted upon. Please vote. [[13:02:48]] For 265 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Next. I'm proposing number two of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Act (registration number 3475). I'm betting on the vote of number two of the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:03:22]] For 268. Dear colleagues, now that the President of Ukraine's proposals have been completed, I am voting on the adoption of the law as a whole. The language's coming. I propose to accept in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Act (project registration number 3475). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:04:07]] For 294 Decision taken. Hello! Dear colleagues, we also have a bill to vote on with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. This is Ukraine's Virtual Assets Act with proposals from the President of Ukraine (project registration number 3637). The same procedure: first the President's report - within 10 minutes, then the answers to questions from MPs - to 3 minutes, then the co-report from the Main Committee - within 5 minutes, then the co-rapporteur's reply to the question - within 3 minutes, then the vote of the proposals in the order in which they were presented by the President of Ukraine. And after the vote has been completed, voting proposals for the adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite the head of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Market Magedov Ruslan Sadrudinovich. Please, Ruslan Sadrudinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u168	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on virtual assets with his proposals. The bill was adopted on September 8, 2021. The Head of State did not sign it in view of the following. This bill lays down the principles of national regulation of the market in virtual assets. In line with the text of the bill, it is determined that the regulation of the market in virtual assets is carried out by various government authorities, including through the creation of a new central executive body. At the same time, world experience says that market regulation of virtual assets is best done by financial regulators who already have experience in protecting investors’ interests, preventing financial pyramids from being created, using virtual assets, and combating fraud. This is identified in reports, public reports of the International Securities Commission (IOSCO). It should also be noted that the creation of a new central executive body will require considerable expenditure from a government budget whose sources of coverage are not defined. At the same time, the Securities Commission already has authority and great experience in regulating the market for financial instruments and controlling asset storage activities. That is why the President of Ukraine proposes that activities concerning the regulation of the market in virtual assets be taken into account by existing financial regulators, namely the Securities and Stock Markets Commission and the National Bank of Ukraine. That is why, in view of the foregoing, the President proposes to make further changes to the law. In the text of the law, the word "central authority of executive power that ensures the formation of state policy in the field of virtual asset trafficking" and the "central authority of executive authority that implements state policy in the field of the defence of virtual assets" are replaced by the words "National Securities and Stock Markets Commission" in all differences. New edition: part four of article 5; second sentence of part three of article 9; article 16; part three of paragraph 1; part seven and part eighteen of article 20; article 21; part three of article 22; title 23; part two of article 24; part two of article 26; section VI, paragraph 3, “Ending and transitional positions”, paragraph five of paragraph 3 and paragraph 5. Exclude from the text of the bill: part two of article 14; article 18 with corresponding renumbering of the following articles in the text of the law; part three of article 23. Paragraph 4 to 8 in section VI, "End and transitional positions" replace paragraph 4 to 6 in a new line. This is briefly about the President's proposals with which the law was returned to the Supreme Council. Please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u169	Thank you. I understand, 21 Presidential proposals, do I understand? 21th Presidential Proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u170	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're still writing down questions from the MP factions, which takes up to three minutes, to the reporter. Please log in. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u172	Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u173	Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u174	I don't really understand why this bill has been going through the Digital Transformation Committee all the time, although it's probably the knowledge of this law in the Committee on Finance and Banking. Because in fact, this bill is missing a very important thing that might lead to this instrumentation of virtual assets being used to clean up funds, dirty funds. I mean, article 9, paragraph 7, where it's about the owner being able to determine the price of a virtual asset on his own rather than using market mechanisms. I want to ask you, you understand the consequences of what might happen if this law goes into effect in this paper and the President does.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u175	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u176	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that this bill will take effect as soon as changes are made to the Tax Code. What you're talking about is really, really important, and in general, the bill is designed to create conditions when it's impossible to launder funds obtained in a criminal way and in order to get virtual assets out of the shadows that it is today. That is why the President of Ukraine proposes to refer the regulation of this market to the competence of the National Commission. The changes to the Tax Code that will be introduced will also take into account these comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u177	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u178	It's not a question, it's a confirmation. It is very positive that the President has listened, in particular, to the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Committee on the need to transfer functions to, in fact, existing institutions, not to create new ones. And that's perfectly reasonable. At the same time, it is unfortunate that the Hall, understanding and supporting this initiative by the President, does not support extremely important other non-viral issues, but real problems, such as the liquidation of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, where the actions of the newly created one will continue to be considered. Not a new regulator, but a national commission. It's important to do both, when dealing with virtual assets, to solve real problems, such as the elimination of OASK, such as the NABU and SAP competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u179	Please answer if you have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u180	No, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our questions. Thank you, please take your place. I'd like to invite a co-rapporteur of the Vice-Chairman of the Digital Transformation Committee, Yegor Volodymyrovich Cherniev. Please, Yegor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u182	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm not going to take up much of your time, I'm just going to remind you that we've already voted on this law in two readings. And it's a law that allows you to enter. regulates the market for virtual assets that exist without it but outside the law. This will allow our and Ukrainian investors and other companies from other countries to still be in the legal field. This will allow you to invest in business, including through virtual assets. Again, in the situation that we are now facing because of the constant military threat and because of the outflow of investments, it's just another window of opportunity. So the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, discussed at its meeting on 29 October 2021 the proposal by the President of Ukraine for the Law on Virtual Assets, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 8 September 2021. I would like to draw your attention to the Committee's review of the Virtual Assets Act, taking into account the President's proposals to it. I'm going to point out that 21 proposals have been made from the President. We've studied the validity of each individual proposal and we're proposing that we take them fully into account. This has already been reported by the previous reporter, except that the regulator’s functions remain exclusively in the NBA and the Nazi Commission from securities. On the basis of this, the Committee proposes to support the proposals by the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the Law as a whole, taking into account them. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u183	Thank you, Yegor Vladimirovich. Dear colleagues, we now have three minutes to ask the co-rapporteur. Then we go to the vote for the President's proposals, 21 of them, as you've heard. And then we're going to vote on the law as a whole. I'm asking you to invite the national deputies to take their seats. Now, if you'd like to sign up for a question to the co-conspirator on this question, please. The word is given to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u184	This law is a case in which, if you add a spoon to a bowl of honey to a spoon of manure, a barrel of manure will come out. And as a result of one norm that opens up the possibility of money laundering, we are actually ruining all the positive things that are contained in this law today. And I'm very sorry that Zelensky didn't want to see a real problem that's in one norm that opens up the possibility of a huge amount of abuse. Friends, if we adopt this law, actually electronic declarations can be thrown into the trash because it will be very easy to bypass and the mechanisms will be created. And I'm very actively going to urge you now, let's fail this bill, and without this norm, we'll make the next one, and we'll run it through the Supreme Council in a fast way. Because otherwise there will be trouble.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u185	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladimir Igorovich, for asking. You, like me, from our committee, know that there is a conclusion of the holdingfinguining, which says that this bill is also improving our legislation on the implementation of the FATF conditions for the prevention of money-laundering. So I don't see what the problem is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u187	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u188	Thank you. Please give the word to Arjev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u189	Please, Vladimir Igorovich Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u190	Only the biggest problem is that it's from FATF that we don't have conclusions, but we have conclusions from Ukrainian institutions that point to the fact that there will be no problems. But, guys, once again, I want to emphasize to you, I'm in favour of enacting laws and settling virtual asset issues like everyone else here. But the Committee on Digitalization was clearly not the committee to consider it, it was to be considered by the Committee on Finance and Banking. Because in fact we're comparing virtual assets to financial instruments and then we're opening up opportunities by setting the price of assets yourself to manipulate so that tomorrow the 10 bracelets purchased by one asset are going to be worth a million dollars because this article opens up these things. And if we're talking today about how this is going to be handled in a different way, I can say one thing: today is one board leader, tomorrow another. And that's why you can't do things like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u191	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u192	Let's do it in a row. Once again, before funding, it was their position that this law would allow us not to be included in the "grey" lists on the trafficking of virtual assets. That's the first one. Secondly, Nazcomisi from securities is going to deal with the issues you're talking about as to the impossibility of washing. Because this does not apply exclusively to virtual assets, but securities can be manipulated exactly as they were. So that's exactly what Nazcomisi's job is, and I think she'll be able to do this task to prevent money laundering through virtual assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please report to take your place. And we are moving on to voting on the proposals of the President of Ukraine. They are voting in the order in which they are presented by the President of Ukraine. People's deputies please take their seats. I would like to remind you once again that we are considering the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act with proposals from the President of Ukraine (project registration number 3637). And now we're going to consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine, as you've heard, 21 of them. We'll vote them in turn. And if we support these proposals, we will vote on the bill as a whole. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm voting on President of Ukraine's number one proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[13:20:38]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on President of Ukraine's number two proposal. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:21:04]] For 283 Dear colleagues, please prepare. I'm voting on proposal number 3 of the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (project registration number 3637). Ready to vote? Offer number three. Please vote. [[13:21:41]] For 285 Dear colleagues, proposal number 4 of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (project registration number 3637). Proposal No. 4 of the President of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:22:14]] For 289 Dear colleagues, proposal number 5 of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). We're voting now for proposal number five. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:47]] For 292 Decision taken. Wait a minute, I'll find another offer. Presidential proposal No. 6 to Ukraine's Virtual Assets Act (Registration No. 3637). We're voting now for proposal number six. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:28]] For 292 Decision taken. Next proposal by the President of Ukraine number 7 to Ukraine's Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). We are now voting for proposal number seven of the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:24:00]] For 294 Next proposal No. 8 of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (project registration number 3637). Dear colleagues, we are voting on proposal number 8 of the President of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:24:32]] For-300 The decision is made on this proposal. Next proposal number 9 of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). Dear colleagues, we're voting on proposal number nine. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:25:04]] For 299 Decision taken. Next, number 10 of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in favour of proposal number 10 of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:25:36]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next sentence number 11 of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). I'm voting on proposal number 11 of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:26:08]] For-300 Decision taken. The next proposal is proposal No. 12 of the President of Ukraine to the Virtual Assets Act (No. 3637). Dear colleagues, we vote in favour of President 12 of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:26:40]] For 302 The next proposal is proposal number 13 of the President of Ukraine to the Virtual Assets Act (project registration number 3637). Colleagues, offer number 13. I'll put her to the vote. Please vote. [[13:27:14]] For 301 Decision taken. The next proposal is proposal No. 14 of the President of Ukraine to the Virtual Assets Act (Registration No. 3637). I'm betting on vote number 14 of the President of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:27:45]] For 304 Decision taken. The next proposal is proposal No. 15 of the President of Ukraine. Guys, a little more. Proposal No. 15 of the President of Ukraine on the Virtual Assets Act (Registration No. 3637). I'm voting on proposal number 15. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:28:21]] For 301 Decision taken. Next, number 16 of the President of Ukraine to the Virtual Assets Act (project registration number 3637). I'm voting on proposal number 16 of the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:28:53]] For 302 Decision taken. Next, number 17 of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Virtual Assets (registration number 3637). Dear colleagues, I'm voting on proposal number 17 of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:29:23]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next sentence number 18 of the President of Ukraine to the Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). I'm voting on proposal number 18 of the President of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:55]] For 305 Decision taken. Next, proposal number 19 of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). I'm voting on proposal number 19 of the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:30:26]] For 301 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one second, I'll find it. There's still two suggestions left, and I'm going to find them, one second. Here. Dear colleagues, proposal number 20 of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). Dear colleagues, I'm voting on proposal number 20 of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:31:10]] For 303 Decision taken. And the 21st, final, proposal of the President of Ukraine to this law. Dear colleagues, 21 proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). I'm putting 21 votes on the president's proposal. Please vote. [[13:31:44]] For 299 Dear colleagues, we have passed all the President's proposals and now we need to vote on the adoption of the law as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to the committee to accept in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the Law on Virtual Assets of Ukraine, with proposals from the President of Ukraine (registration number 3637). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:32:28]] For 272 Decision taken. The law is passed. Congratulations, fellows! Yes, one second. Please, Shulak first. I can see it, first. We agreed, first Schuljak, then Klimpush-Cincadze. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u194	Mr. Speaker, at the request of business, at the request of the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs of the European Business Association, I ask you very much to put to the vote the draft Cloud Services Act. He's been on the lookout for more than a month now, but there's no way the Supreme Council can approve him. And I also want to raise 5249 and 3447. This is a draft Decision on some issues of protection of the right to freedom, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u195	Yeah, I got it right, you're proposing to raise 265. Well, change the order of order and move on to issues 2655 -- the Cloud Services Act, then 5249 -- that's about a 30th anniversary amnesty, right? And Bill 3447. It's a draft regulation on the protection of the right to freedom and religion of believers, right? Dear colleagues, such an offer, let's vote it out. I'm putting it to the vote: change the order of order of the debate and move on to the questions that have been raised. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:34:17]] For 287 Decision taken. We're about to start with these questions. And I'll give you my word from the procedure. Ivan Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u196	Colleagues, there's an absolute farce in this room. There's gunfire all over the line. Today, a kindergarten in Lugansk, Marinz, Krasnogorovka, was opened. Attack and fire at school! Cynically, under the direction of the Kremlin, an attack on Ukraine is now taking place throughout the line of delimitation. Is this a violation of the ceasefire and the silence regime? I hope you understand that. Why can we not immediately put to the vote bills that will provide additional funding to the Armed Forces of Ukraine? 6542, 6518 we now demand a vote. And add extra money to our protectors. Then, colleagues, where's RNA? Where is Zelensky's appeal to the nation? When someone shot the Chief, he told the United Nations General Assembly about the incident. Where's the President of Ukraine's statement today? We are immediately required to switch to adequate work lanes. And, colleagues, if not now, we have the opportunity to sign under.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for information, as far as I have information, the President is now heading to the OOS area directly. And you don't need empty statements, he's right there. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Now we're going to consider the issues that we've voted on. [[B in m in s a l in]] They've already been identified by the Hall. They're not in the daytime, they're not ready for consideration. What are you talking about? Dear colleagues, we're moving on to issue 2655 -- this is the draft Cloud Services Act. The Cloud Services Bill, one second, that's our second reading. I'd like to invite you to meet the vice-chairman of the Digital Transformation Committee, Federian Alexander Pavlovich. Please, Alexander Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the National MPs, are there national MPs who are rejected by the committee, but they insist on taking these amendments into account? Are there any deputies? None. Are there national deputies who would like to make other amendments that are considered by the committee for confirmation? None. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Let's move on to making a decision. Thank you. Alexander Pavlovich, take your place. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Cloud Services Act (project 2655 registration number) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:09]] For 297 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! The next bill is 5249. Wait a minute, I'll find him. This is a draft of the Amnesty Act on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence. Dear colleagues, I propose that we address this issue in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:38:56]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two bills here. I invite the author of the first draft, Ukrainian national deputy Yatzik Yulia Grigorovna, author of Bill 5249. Please, Julia Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u198	Thank you. First of all, when presenting this bill, I would like to dispel the myths that rapists, murderers, recidivists, robbers will be released in connection with the adoption of the Amnesty Law. That's not true. Unlike an alternative bill, this basic bill does not provide for the release from punishment of amnesty persons who have committed serious crimes or particularly serious unintentional crimes. On the contrary, it spreads to minors, women, persons who committed crimes of small or medium severity, heavy convicts, participants in hostilities, and you remember that both volunteers and volunteers, and participants in operations in the ATO/OS zone, and so on. Do they deserve to be shown humanism on the part of the state whose borders they have defended? Of course it is. In addition, unlike an alternative bill, the main one does not provide for amnesty for those who have committed murder for the indiscretion of two or more persons who have committed serious bodily harm or have committed robbery, robbery, or so forth. The ECHR notes the impossibility of amnesty for those who have committed such serious or particularly serious crimes. I want to assure you that those who have made road traffic accidents in an alcoholic or drug-drunk state are also not immune to amnesty. Moreover, in connection with the resonating events in Kharkiv, the committee decided to amend the second reading to prevent the amnesty of persons who had committed an accident who had lost one or more persons. So, colleagues, please support this bill on a basis, for the second reading of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u199	Thank you. I invite the author of an alternative bill from the Ukrainian National MP, Francis Igor Pavlovich. Please, Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, thank you for your time. Our country, the country must be humane. Since the 17th year, if every year we have to vote for the amnesty law, there is no amnesty. But as I can see, any arrangement with some of our colleagues can't be reached if they don't support it, but they're telling the truth openly, as was the case with the Committee on Law Enforcement when they said that the alternative bill contained information about serious crimes. There's no such thing as either one or the other bill. The alternative bill gives more clarity to the definitions and rules of law laid down directly in criminal law. The alternative bill expands the amnesty in certain types of crimes not only for ATO participants who have UBD certificates, but for all people who have defended the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our state. And this bill clearly defines the conditions that don't spread amnesty to people who cover, they're breaking down gambling. So I strongly ask and insist on supporting the alternative bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite a co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Sergio Costinovich Ionushas. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u202	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting on 30 June reviewed the draft amnesty laws on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence (registration number 5249), introduced by the People's Deputy Yatzik and others, as well as the alternative to it on the amnesty on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence (registration number 5249-1), introduced by the People's Deputy Fries and others. It should be noted that the last Amnesty Law was passed by the Supreme Council at the end of the 16th year, more than five years ago. In recent years, too, the issue of countering the outbreaks of the COPID-19 epidemic and providing adequate medical treatment to Ukrainian citizens is also acute whether a person has committed a criminal offence or not. I'd like to point out that these two bills are very similar. But the committee carefully considered two bills and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the draft Amnesty Act on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence (registration number 5249) to accept as a basis and an alternative draft of the Amnesty Act on the occasion of the 30th anniversary to reject it. Dear colleagues, I will urge you to support both the basic bill and the alternative, in any case, we need amnesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, but the committee's decision to support it is based on 5249, that's why. Is there a need to discuss this? Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Mikhailuk Galina Olegovni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u204	Please give the floor to the people's representative of Bujansky Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u205	Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, this is about such important things as giving people another chance to start a clean life. It's very important, and I hope we give them that chance. In addition, I remind you that the Saucenco Law was saddened when, for good reason, it happened that a person who was not quite ready to receive it had gained the will of a person. So I ask you to be very careful, I ask you to take a look at the thinking and decision of the Main Committee, which has considered both bills. And I very much ask you to support the main bill of Julia Yatzik. If there are any comments, I think both authors are working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u207	The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Sergey Anatolyovich. Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, the Deputies Group "Trust" determines that, of course, a bill relating to the amnesty of convicted persons must be adopted. Such bills either became laws at all times, and it is an expression of society's ability for convicted persons to take the path of correction, to go through the process of resolidation and to become full members of society, and as an act of humanity it must certainly be. The only thing we discussed was how wide could possibly be around amnestyes. You've noticed, almost all in one group, there was a language in these differences: it was the military, it was the anti-terrorist operation or the operation of the United Forces in the East, it was those who either had official documents that confirmed that he was a participant in these hostilities, or it was those who didn't. Perhaps this is the subject of second reading discussions. We think we can find compromise here. With regard to those who committed a crime while driving a car in a state of heavy alcohol abuse or under the influence of drugs, and when this has caused the death of people, there can be no discussion. Such individuals should be fully disciplined. So, dear fellows, let's go over all these points and support this bill before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u209	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u210	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u211	Please, Maria Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this bill, but we would like to see to it that in the second reading, it is necessary that those who have committed drug or alcohol abuse do not succumb to amnesty independently of difficulty. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Zelensky was about to write down a message to the democratic world about the degradation of the security situation, to show a photo, to show Stanica the Lugansk Children's Garden, to fly in Vrubovka, and to place public responsibility on the Russian occupying forces. We must now urge the world to recognize its own responsibility for the lives of Ukrainian children and the threats already posed. So that we don't expect the worst, and increase the sanctions on Putin and his environment. Now it's hybrid and direct aggression, an information war against our country. And we already know that there's operational information, Russian media, they're accusing our Ukrainian army of provocations, and they're teaching photos. Therefore, the Ukrainian authorities should not remain silent, although they must now scream about these provocations, inform the world and demand responsibility and sanctions against the Kremlin. Because we have to unite now around our Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'm not talking about what we are now, what you want to accept, but we don't accept those bills to fund our Armed Forces. Come on, please, and see what's going on in the news.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u213	The word is given to the National Deputy of Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u214	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to an expert on the definition of crimes and the punishments of Mr. Gregory Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u215	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the cases where I'm more professional about this bill. Are the two bills ideal? There is no perfect one in nature. Is it necessary to carry out its function as the Supreme Council to give the law at least for the first reading? Yes, we are obliged to do that, because since the 16th year, the state has not given such a preference as amnesty. Whoever gets there will make that decision. This room will be accommodated during. After the MPs have made the full procedure for walking around the hall, and already making the decision as a basis and as a whole in this room. I'm asking you to measure in your subjects and ambitions to keep your job and understand one thing: I'm going to review the committee and I've decided to recommend the hall, vote for the bill for the first reading. After that, all thoughts will be taken into account as authors of an alternative bill, co-authors and everyone else in order to make this law a law. Please support the committee's decision in the form of a first bill, to vote in favour, to work on the committee in the statutory term, and to give this law, in fact, where the benefits, where the downsides will be, practice will show, but we are obliged to do so. We will support this bill as the main one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. After that, the national deputy Jurchisin. Anybody else want to say something? Chess. Oh, my God, Lubinets, I see, I'm sorry. I'm out of glasses, I'm sorry. John Ivanovich, and after that we will vote, after these three reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u218	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The bill on granting amnesty on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence Day is under consideration. Of course, it would be good to adopt such bills for the anniversary of independence, not six months after. But, at the same time, we're looking at it now, and "The Fatherland" is going to vote in favour of an alternative bill, which is also co-sponsored by the representatives of the Fatherland, particularly Krulko and Mikhailo Cimbaluk. We think that really a country with a humanitarian agenda should go to amnesty for people who have little action — women, those with severe diseases, those with a group I who suffer from tuberculosis and so on. If this person has performed minor social activities, the majority of the sentences have taken place and are objective factors for granting such amnesty. I think we should vote. Why an Alternative Bill? Because this bill expands the circle of persons to whom such an amnesty can be given, and it sets out more clearly the prerequisites for giving.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u219	Please, national deputy Jurchisin. After that, the Lubinian People's Deputy will proceed to the vote. People's deputies please come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, this is a case where we have to rise above political misunderstandings, perhaps even organizational misunderstandings, and support both bills, because the main thing is that we finally introduce amnesty. We didn't do it, unfortunately, at the time of the epidemic, a sharp COVID crisis, but it didn't end. We did not actually show mercy. That's why we're going to vote for both the one and the other bills, which we're going to pass, we're going to improve. There's a note and an anti-corruption committee because there's a conflict between codes and bills, but we're going to fix it. And indeed, there should be corrupt plagiarists like Scarlett or Tatars on bars, not. And the people who make amends need to be given a chance. We're voting for two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u221	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, and then we will proceed to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u222	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Well, first of all, I want to remind everyone that we had our 30th anniversary of independence last year, and it would probably be logical to look at these bills, well, at least half a year ago. But again, who was to hand them over? In our view, first of all, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice. So I thank the people's deputies who raised this issue for registering two bills. From what we've read, we're asking to vote for an alternative bill, in our opinion, it's more professionally prepared. But if the main one goes through, we're ready to join in the work because of the revisions to the second reading. So, honourable national MPs, we vote in favour, and really a lot of people who are serving the punishment, who for the first time made this mistake, long ago want to get out and come to conclusions. Thank you. We're voting for an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed the discussion of two bills, and we are now moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, we have two bills: the main and the alternate, the committee recommends that the main be accepted as a basis. So I'm going to put the main one, if he does, if we keep working on it, if we don't, I'm going to put an alternative to the vote. So, dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt the draft Amnesty Act on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence (project registration number 5249). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:57:32]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, then I will put an alternative in order to accept as a basis. I'm proposing an alternative bill of 5249-1. This is the draft Amnesty Act on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:58:08]] For 310 Decision taken. Alternative accepted as a base. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues. They're asking for a break now? There were two factions, the "Serial of the People" faction, and the MP's "Trust" group, taking a break with the replacement for the performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich, you are. Dear colleagues, there won't be a break, because the Trust Group has already been used with Voice today, and I'm being told, so I'm sorry. Yes, dear fellows, let's move on. Let us turn to question 3447. For a second, the 3447 is a draft decree on certain issues of the protection of the right to freedom of sight and religion of the Christians of the Crimean diocese of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (the Orthodox Church of Ukraine) and the preservation of the premises of the Cathedral of the Holy Equitable Princes of Vladimir and the Prince of Olga. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[14:00:00]] For 242 Decision taken. I invite the rapporteur, Deputy Minister for Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Jaremenko Igor Aleksandrovič. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u224	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, your attention is drawn to the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain issues of the protection of the right to freedom of sight and religion of the Christians of the Crimean diocese of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (the Orthodox Church of Ukraine) and the preservation of the premises of the Kafedra Congregation of Holy Equitable Prince Vladimir and Prince Olga (registration number 3447) (from 07.05.2020). The project provides a transfer from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the state ownership of the property complex at Sevastopolska Street, 17A in Simferopol. At the address mentioned above is the Cathedral of Holy Equitable Prince Vladimir and Princess Olga. Since 2001, the leased property complex has been used by the Crimean diocese of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, currently the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. In 2019-2020, the so - called courts of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied area of Crimea made illegal decisions according to which the property complex was transferred to the so - called Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Republic of Crimea. In fact, the premises of the Cathedral and other buildings legally owned by the Crimean community of the PCU have been arbitrarily captured. In doing so, valuable church property was damaged and destroyed. The reason for such actions by the Russian Federation was the refusal of the Crimean Empire of the PSO to carry out an illegal re-registration in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation. Instead, the head of the diocese of the Metropolitan city of Simferopol and the Crimean Climent, despite constant pressure, actively supports Ukrainian political prisoners in the Crimea. For example, the Metropolitan Clement is now the public defender of Vladislav Esipenko. As a result of the adoption of Decree 3447, a prerequisite will be created for the restoration of the rights of citizens of the PSO on the Crimean Peninsula. Ukraine will once again draw the attention of the international community to the rights that have been violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u225	The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy. Deputy Members of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy of Eugenia Mikhailni Kravczuk. Please, Eugenia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for eight years the occupation authorities in Crimea have systematically violated the rights of believers in the Crimean Empire of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, the figures say. Until the temporary occupation of the Crimean Peninsula, there were 48 religious communities, parishes, missions and brotherhoods, monasteries, now 4 parishes, 5 temples, and 23 priests continue their work only 4. Religious persecutions are taking place, forced reregistering of religious organizations of the community, prohibition of public faith, the treatment of people through purposeful propaganda of religious enmity, threats to the life and health of believers, priests, and members of their families. On June 3, 2020, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Regulation 3447 be supported on the basis and as a whole. In a situation where it is necessary to determine the powers of the State of Ukraine regarding the administration of ARC Crimea’s property, such as the Caphedra Council of Holy Equator Prince Vladimir and Princess Olga, in view of the timely termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, this is the most optimal legal instrument. According to the silence of government property administrations, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine has been placed under the authority of the ARC and the administration of the ARC’s property is the authority of the ARC Council of Ministers. In connection with the armed aggression of the Russian Federation, the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the special legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine apply, giving the right to transfer the administration of property to the Ukrainian State. In the event of a violation of the provisions of that law, the State authorities of Ukraine apply the mechanisms provided for in Ukraine’s laws and international law. Ukraine will have effective legal instruments to further protect property.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Beerware Evgen Pavlovich, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u228	Thank you. Please pass the word to Poturay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u229	Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to a few words I'd like to say to you right now. It's not really about religion or the church -- it's about building, it's about building a temple. A situation that belongs to Ukraine. Because it belongs to this building and the treaty was signed with the Council of Ministers of the ARC until the 1950s. And this is a Ukrainian building, just like Crimea, and we have to defend the interests of our nation on a temporarily occupied Crimea land, including our property interests. But it's more than the temple, it's more about the building -- it's about the Ukrainian community in the occupied Crimea, it's about the center of Ukraine, because there's a Ukrainian language in the courtyard of this temple during the service, when Easter, when other holidays. She's not going anywhere in Crimea anymore. Colleagues, there are certain religious, perhaps discussion. And I'll even understand those of you colleagues who may not vote in favour of this decision for the very religious and ecclesiastical motives. But as a citizen of Ukraine, I will not understand any member of the People's Republic of Ukraine in this room who does not vote in favour of this decree for political reasons. I ask you very much to support Ukrainian property and Ukraine in Crimea – in Ukrainian Crimea!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u231	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullaiovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, surely we will support this decision. I don't agree with my colleague, Mikita, because there can't be any other approach here, it's just our fight for our Crimea, and it's a political issue first and foremost, and it's the protection of our rights, our state and rights in Crimea. I want to remind you, like eight years ago, about these times when the terrorist state captured Crimea, primarily by the hands of the marauders and so-called self-defences, it captured virtually all the parishes of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. And then the Crimean Tatars opened their doors to their mosques to show that unity, not in words, but in business with the Ukrainians. This morning, again in Crimea, there were cleansings. I want to say that the acts of a terrorist state in temporarily occupied territories have nothing to do with the notion of procedural things. They're sweeps and raids, they've captured Edem Dudakov, delegate to Kurultai of the Crimean Tatar people, and now he's under arrest. So what am I talking about? That everyone there has hope and faith in Ukraine, that we will liberate Crimea, and they are deeply concerned about what is now on our borders. Let us show our unity in matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u233	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shapovalov Jury Anatoliyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u234	Please pass the word to Guzu Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u235	Please, Igor Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u236	Dear friends, in fact, are more than just a religious church building. Over the years, there are people in Crimea who fight, who are being destroyed, who are being pressured, who are now in prison, primarily Crimean Tatars. But at the same time, the Metropolitan, the ruler of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, Clement, his parishioners, his people who have grouped around him, the Ukrainians for the eighth year have not given up and are challenging the Kremlin authorities. So I am deeply convinced that today the hall should unite, and this is not only in the church context, although the Orthodox Church of Ukraine shows itself as a warlord church, as a church behind Ukraine in the middle, around the invaders in Crimea, and which does not appear. And that's the decision we have to convey our respect for every Ukrainian who's been challenging the invader there in Crimea. So, my friends, I urge all of us to support those with Ukrainian hearts in Crimea. We vote yes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u237	Heroic glory! Please, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u238	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill because it stands for the protection of Ukrainian property, which is in the occupied Kremlin regime of the Ukrainian Crimea. But, dear fellows, I'd like to address all of us. In 2020, in March 2020, this project was registered in Parliament. It's 2022. In order to vote in favour of the draft decree concerning Ukrainian property in Crimea, we have two years of valandals, and Metropolitan Clement has beaten all the thresholds: vote because it is the only temple of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine and Ukrainian property in the temporarily occupied Russia of Crimea. So, please tell me, who are we if we've been running these bills for two years? I agree that this bill is not technical, this bill is important, because this is part of Ukraine's fight for what we also owe to the Ukrainian Crimea, for us to win the Ukrainian Crimea when the time comes, for us to return our territories and return our citizens preferably in a diplomatic way. But I want to say one more thing. It's a bill that has to show: there's no question of religion that belongs here is the issue of our property that needs to be transferred to state property so that it's harder to take away the invaders. And this is one question: who believes that Crimea is Ukrainian and stands for it and stands for the protection of Ukrainian statehood, he has to vote. Those who play the Kremlin will vote with other buttons. That's what this bill is about. It's a definite faction, and the Fatherland faction votes in full for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u239	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Anyone else will want to speak? Solomia Bobrowski, and then we go to the vote. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u240	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Crimea, of course, is Ukraine. But most of the time, they are voting and shouting about property in Crimea for those who gave it up in 2014 and for those who gave it up. And I agree with the President on this issue that we need to figure out how this happened. You know, talking about a free world view is beautiful. But then there should be a free world view in Kiev, when they close six TV channels on the street, when they're holding a person in jail, when today there's going to be an appeal court on the 38th day after the first arrest hearing, the case of the Cave Court regarding the detention of Medvedchuk has not been referred to the Court of Appeal. That's the world's view, that's the rule of law. First, demand and secure the law in Kiev and then in Crimea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u241	Please, Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska, and then we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u242	You know, dear colleagues, I'm very sorry that this decision really saw this room in just two years, and unfortunately, before that, there was no political will to make and vote, hopefully, almost unanimously for that determination. What's more, my colleagues were absolutely right when they said that this is not about faith, it's not about religion, it's not about religion, and it's not about our honour to be, to support here, whether it's a Muslim mosque, whether it's a Protestant church, whether it's Greek-Catholic, or, of course, even our own Orthodox Church of Ukraine. If we are fighting, not just talking about Crimea being Ukraine, we really need to prove it in action and fight for our own. Finally, it is time for us to learn and learn about the tooth. Thank you. It's definitely "for."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u243	Thank you, Your Honor. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. Please prepare to make your decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on certain issues of the protection of the right to freedom of worldview on the confession of the Christians of the Crimean diocese of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (the Orthodox Church of Ukraine) and the preservation of the premises of the Cathedral of Holy Equitable Prince Vladimir and Princess Olga (resistance number 3447). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:16:58]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Show the factions, please. Motovlover, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, I ask you to change the procedure for reviewing the bill and to proceed to the consideration of Law 2811, 5202. It won't take long, it'll all be second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, 5811, 5202. What are they talking about? Now I'm going to find them myself and I'm going to read them to you for a second. Now, now, I'm going to read what these bills are about. Dear colleagues, Bill 5811 (this is a second reading) The Act amending Chapter V of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities to simplify the placement of electronic communications technology. And Bill 5202-d (this second reading) is a draft law on the organization of water users and the promotion of hydrotechnical land melification. These are two other readings, and I'm making this proposal. A proposal can be put to the vote? Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" is ready to support these bills, they are important. But do you think that urban activity today, when we need to urgently spend money on an army more important than the purchase of weapons, more important than the creation of strategic reserves and more important than the salaries of an army? Listen, is there an adequate presence or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, there's a Motovilovt proposal, I'm putting it to a vote. So this proposal refers to the change in the consideration of agenda issues and the transition to issues 5811, 5202-d. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:19:18]] For 233 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Let's move on. Let's go to the bill, one second. 5811. 5811, now, one second. This is a draft law amending Chapter V of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the regulation of urban activities to facilitate the deployment of electronic communications (second reading). I invite the chairman of the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and the construction of Klock Andriyovitch. Please, Andrew Andryovich. Dear colleagues, I see that all the adjustments are included here. No one will insist on their own or on the confirmation of other people’s amendments? Nobody. I can put it to a vote. Thank you for understanding. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter V of the Law on the regulation of urban activities on the facilitation of the deployment of electronic communications technology (project registration number 5811). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:21:14]] For 308. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill, 5202-d. It's a bill on water users' organisations and the promotion of hydrotechnical land-melioration. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy, Mikola Tarasovich Solski, please. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, are there those who will insist on taking account of their amendments? There aren't any. Is it? Nestor Ivanovich, do you have any corrections? Does Yvchenka have any? Yes. You've got some repairs, haven't you? First, I ask the amendment authors who are rejected by the committee, but who want to take them into account. Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, please. What's your correction, number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u248	Your Honor, I have a 75, 77, 80, 83, 88, 93, 122, 159, 187, 208, 215, 221, 254, 256, 280. I suggest you give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u249	That's a great offer. Give Vadim Eugeneovich two minutes. Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich, for the design. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u250	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, do you know what happens to this law? This law actually privatizes what was built back in Soviet times, these are meliorate systems. Yes, they are in a position to invest there today. We need to be clear. But this must be done by means of a pool of water users that are transmitted or by these inter-house networks, so that large ones are not suppressed by small ones. To prevent small ones from knocking and having access to water so that large ones do not directly tear up those investment projects and come into these pools of users, and they do not ask millions to invest in these investment projects, and small ones do not have access, farmers, credits, and credit resources. We have tried to make this law so that everyone has the same voice, independent of the number of earths. But at the moment, there's the norm, when, well, the first round of voting and the second round, and that's the first and the second, it's still going to cause cases where big land users are going to strangle little farmers. The Agrarian Union, the Association of the Agrarian Union, she wrote her proposals so that they could be taken into account. Unfortunately, the agrarian committee did not count. As a faction of the Fatherland, we have always stood guard over small forms of farming, farmers. Yes, there are all of them, but not at the expense of the small ones need to privatize and transfer these melioration systems directly to the KLA. That is why we do not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u251	Thank you, Vadim Eugeneovich. Dear colleagues, will no one ever insist on their amendments that were not taken into account by the committee? Nobody. Thank you. Now the question is: Will anyone make adjustments for confirmation, amendments to other national MPs? Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please. But first, tell me the number or the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u252	Thank you, Mr. Head. I have five amendments that I would like to make for confirmation: 8, 9, 10, 19, 22. But just so I don't do it every time, I'd like two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u253	Please give me two minutes. 8, 9, 10, 19, 22. Did I take the right note? Please, the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you to make some amendments in turn for confirmation. But I was questioned by my colleagues about what took place today in the Court of Appeal, where an appeal was to be brought against the Order of the Pecher Court concerning the measure of the detention of Victor Medvedchuk. Imagine that in 38 days the case was unable to be referred from the Cave Court to the Court of Appeal for 38 days. Today, the judges of the Court of Appeal were obliged to find a violation of all the terms and to separately oblige the Cave Court to refer the case to the Court. Moreover, the prosecution came, and he had no authority to present charges. Please tell me what kind of justice can we talk about when the citizen's right to charge his arrest is prolonged? In these circumstances, we certainly cannot accept normal work, including in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you can see that today's appeal to justice does not make any sense to justice. Regrettably, we see selective justice because individuals who were five are afraid to make accusations must be given due, they too are unfounded, but I have the impression that some are ordered to be punished and others are ordered to be released from punishment. This cannot be the case, and we hope that the law will eventually return to our country and that completely unfounded accusations will receive a fair assessment in a court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u255	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, I have to tell you, too, I know that you're a constructive person, we've listened to your thorough observation on these rights, can we not put them on the stand and just vote for the law as a whole? If you don't mind. Thank you. We agreed, yes, you made this amendment, we get it. Can we not put them on confirmation? Okay? We can go to the vote, thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, thank you, thank you, I thank you for your constructiveness, thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Bet on confirmation? Okay. No questions asked. Dear colleagues, the 8th Amendment, the 8th Amendment, is the amendment of the national MP, Gaius. She's listed by the committee, but Nestor Ivanovich Shufrich is justified, we've heard it, she's asking for confirmation. I'm putting an 8 amendment on confirmation. The committee proposes to keep it under consideration. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[14:29:17]] For 275 Decision taken. Next. Shall we put it on, Nestor Ivanovich? We all do, don't we? Is it not? Let's put it all on. I'll put the next, 9th Amendment of the People's Deputy Maslov. It was taken into account by the editorial committee, but Nestor Ivanovich, as you have heard, asked for a reasoned confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation of the committee's proposal. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[14:29:57]] For 285 All of it. Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, you've seen that support is, let's go to the vote. Thank you so much for your constructive position. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Organization of Water Users and the Promotion of Hydrotechnical Land Meliorization (project registration number 5202-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:30:44]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, congratulations. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we see numbers here, they run, and there's always someone alone. You get more numbers, and then you get one less. I'm reminding you, maybe someone new in the room needs to keep the sensor key and the green key to the end, because there's always someone else flying and you don't get your voice. So please consider this. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going back to the order of the day that we had, and we're going to. No one else will change the order of the day, the turn of the debate? Let's go to Bill 5273. This is a draft law amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport on certain issues of the use of property of the destroyed state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:32:04]] For 242 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Youth and Sports of Belenjuk Jean Wensanovic. Because you're from the authors and the committee, four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u256	[[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Greetings, Your Honor, welcome to all Ukrainians! It's about the bill itself. I want to present the bill as a co-author, and I want to express the committee's position on it. The bill proposes to amend article 48 of the Ukrainian Physical Culture Act by supplementing it with a new part of which property, including land areas, state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport or those whose activities have been suspended, can be used solely for physical and sporting services, including on the basis of a public-private partnership. On April 28, 2021, the Youth and Sports Committee reviewed a draft Ukrainian law. And it should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made some comments on the law. First, a special reference in the text of the bill to the possibility of using property of state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport under the terms of the State-private partnership seems unnecessary, since in accordance with part one of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State-Private Partnership, sport is already included in the scope of this partnership. And the second. Transitional provisions cannot be found in bills amending other laws. In view of the above, the title of section II of the bill needs to be amended accordingly. During the discussion of the draft law, members of the committee supported the legislative initiative. At the same time, the Ukrainian National Deputies noted that, in order to avoid conflicts with article 143 of the Constitution, it is appropriate to put forward the second part of the first chapter and the bill in the following wording: "Lowly eliminated state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport are used without changing its purpose." In view of the above and with a view to removing the above observations, the Committee adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading review of the draft law to adopt it as a basis and in general, taking into account the following suggestions of the Committee: First. Paragraph 2 of Part One of Chapter I of the bill reads: "Severally eliminated state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport are used without changing its purpose." The other one. In the title of section III of the bill, the words "and transitionals" are deleted. Yeah, it's about the bill. And I want to say a few words in the context of yesterday's victory of our Olympics, Alexander Abramenko. We've already welcomed him. And I want to say that, well, first of all, it's very symbolic that the victory was just yesterday -- the Day of Joining. Because sport is a sphere that certainly unites all Ukrainians throughout the territory of our beautiful state. [[Applause]] And I want to say the next thing. That despite the criticism and the skepticism that you have expressed, even some media outlets on the grounds that our athletes will be without a medal, we will return with nothing, our athletes constantly prove that they deserve support, and constantly prove it by bringing in a worthy number of medals for our country. And I want all Ukrainians to take the example of our athletes in the context of protecting our country. You have to believe in your soldiers, you have to believe in your country, you have to believe in your athletes, and you always have to support them, no matter what. Thank you for the Ukrainian sport! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u257	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is there no need? We can go to the vote, right? Is it? Arthur Volodymyrovich, of course, is the holy right of factions and groups. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Dmitry of Dmitry Davidovich, faction of the "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u258	Please pass the word to Kowalczuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u259	Alexander Kowalczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u260	Alexander Kowalczuk, Plainskin, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, in this room, it's not often that we applaud the author of the bill, our medalist Jean Belenyuk. I thank him very much for this bill, because it covers a large number of the issues that are in Ukraine today, these are also destroyed sports establishments, and those that have long been out of operation. And it is time to put into order the property and the land and the facilities and the facilities that are in neglected condition. I would like to remind you once again that it is our political power that draws attention to such perhaps unpopular things and makes decisions that enable our children, our athletes, to the active part of our population to believe that even in the difficult times that Ukraine is in today, we do not forget that we have to create conditions for the development of young people and sports in order for our children to grow up worthy of future Olympic champions. I very much ask my colleagues from other factions not to discuss the subject for a long time — clearly. If there are any comments, they will be further developed. Now, all colleagues, both our factions and all the colleagues in this room, I invite you to vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u261	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the Ukrainian national deputy Lopushanski Andrija Jaroslavovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u262	I'd like to give it to Big Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u263	Mikola Velichkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u264	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this bill, because it is very important for us that children who are currently in sports establishments should be able to continue to do so, because this is adequate when young people grow up healthy, then go to the Armed Forces and protect Ukraine. It is very important for us to maintain this adequacy not only in terms of sport but also in terms of the country's security, because when it comes to increasing funding not only for sport, not only for education, but also for the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which are now protecting our country in the East, especially in view of what has taken place today at the Luhansk and other areas of the population of Donetsk. It is very important for us to increase funding in the Armed Forces, because the military, healthy military, who have grown up in these sports establishments that have protected our country in the sports arenas, are now protecting Ukraine in the East, so that they also have sufficient security to have a decent salary to pay for the state defense order. That is why it is adequate to vote in favour of this bill, and for the bill that deals with increased funding in the Armed Forces. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u265	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Skorik Mikola Leonidovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u266	Please give my word to my colleague Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u267	Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u268	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I just want to say that our faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill and vote for it in the first reading. But for the second reading, this bill will have to be drafted to be even better than it is now. But this bill is not enough for our young people to become friends with sports, and our young people have enjoyed a healthy lifestyle. The State needs a number of state programs and, above all, a state program to promote a healthy lifestyle. When such a program is adopted, we will do the first part of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The country also needs another state program, which was in Ukraine at the time, but with the fifth president of Ukraine, the Yatsenuk government has stopped this program, which is a program for the development of ice sports: hockey, figure skating, curling, and sports that, unfortunately, we are now far and far from the advanced countries of the world. And at the very end of my speech, I also want to say what my colleague, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, has already said today, that, unfortunately, a judicial branch of power is being trampled in Ukraine. And today's events at the Kyiv Court of Appeal regarding the appeal of our fellow Ukrainian national deputy Victor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk showed that there is no judicial branch of power in Ukraine. And the President of Ukraine, in his pre-election programme, made it clear that "I will do my utmost to make the judicial branch of power in our state." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u269	Thank you. Please, Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u270	Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u271	Please, Sergey Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u272	Dear friends, it is unfortunate that Jean Belenjuk is only 31 years old and is his first cadence as a national deputy. Because if he were to be a national MP for the first time, imagine how many stadiums in our country would be able to save and not put under chaotic construction. For example, you do not have to walk far, get out of the Supreme Council and go back down Klovski, there will be an Arsenal Stadium on the left, and with the villas, people would stand up for the right not to let it be built. Imagine how many square meters there are. Velotrek in Kiev, Bogdan Hmelnick. The villa is the least that can be said of how many people have stood up for years to preserve this biker and to leave it as a sports establishment. And many and many examples can be cited. But let's not just stop at sports. As long as we have a terrible story on our borders and we're threatened again and again by a Russian aggressor, let's save the target of land defense and not let it build, excuse me, buildings, factories that can still launch missiles that can still release tank weapons in Kharkiv, let's not let it build an Arsenal. We've just removed the Head of the Holding Foundation from his post today, let's stop what's yet to be stopped, and let's do everything we can to leave the country's property to the Ukrainian people. We vote "yes" in the first reading. We are quick to vote in the second and we are taking the initiative to ban the privatization of defence lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, who else does? I see, Lozinski, and I see, Bacon. No one else, dear colleagues? Then Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, then Paul Andriyovich Bakunec, please, and let us proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u274	Roman Lozinski, Lvivščina Guys, it's a good thing I have one minute, 'cause there's nothing more to talk about. Youth, sports, leisure, alternatives to harmful habits, the ability to develop physically, to be in good health, is something that needs to be put at the top of the board. Unfortunately, young people, unfortunately, have a healthy lifestyle and all the standards that are meant to contribute to this, and all the infrastructure that should contribute to this, the 10th, the 15th, the 20th and the 25th priorities of the state. I want to stress that we're going to need less medical expenses when we have healthier citizens, including young people, and we see a number of diseases, unfortunately, getting younger. Therefore, honourable colleagues, after decentralization has increased the ranks and districts and communities, we need to do everything we can to ensure that infrastructure, quality, for a healthy way of life, sports, is preserved by young people. We vote in favour of this bill, we work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u275	Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. And after that, I invite the people's deputies to the hall, and we'll make decisions on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u276	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, the MP's group of "Trust" majors. Clearly, we support this initiative to preserve sports infrastructure in our big cities, especially where it can be chaotically built. But today we also need to mention this good program, which was for the construction of artificial mini-football fields, which have been used by many communities (it needs to be continued, there is a need to create an additional program for building, rebuilding, remodeling stadiums, especially in newly created small communities), a program to support hockey infrastructure, ice arenas, such as the city of Novojavorovsky and other cities. It's very, very important, so programs to help develop sport in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies please prepare to make a decision. The committee's decision is to take it as a basis and as a whole. But let's do it in turn. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending article 48 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on certain issues of the use of property of destroyed state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport (registration number 5273). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:48:32]] For 309 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can I put it all together? I propose the adoption of a draft Law amending article 48 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on certain issues of the use of property of decommissioned state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport (registration number 5273) as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[14:49:15]] For 303 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we still have a few other readings and 10 minutes left. I declare that we are moving on to Bill 5608: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving civil protection legislation. It's a second reading. I'd like to invite National Deputy Mandiya Sergey Volodymyrovich from the committee. I was told that two amendments would be from Michael Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk -- that's all, right? Please tell me the number of the amendments immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u278	6th, 9th, 12th, 14th. But I'm going to ask for two minutes and I'm going to take a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u279	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u280	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to say first of all that the bill is necessary, it is in the civil protection business. To my second reading, I was able to improve some of it. I thank the rapporteur and the committee, some of the amendments have been taken into account, although there are still inconsistencies, especially with regard to the words "territories and settlements" which often appear in the bill, but according to the Constitution we should not forget that there are territorial communities of villages, villages and cities. First of all, this bill also says, and a new definition of ropes is a platypus. As a result, it seems to me that under-laws of the Cabinet of Ministers will have to regulate such things. First of all, the bill, in our opinion, clearly states that the executive body is not only a committee of the council concerned, but also other structural units, and the position of "representative of the head of the territorial community" is not consistent with legislation. It would be better to determine that the manager of such works is involved in eliminating the consequences of natural disasters. An extraordinary situation would be to identify one of the representatives of the rural, rural, urban head by decision of the same body or city head or village, village. Next thing. When we say that in part four of article 10 of the Civil Protection Code, the links of the territorial subsystem of a single national civil protection system are created.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u281	Do you insist that we put them in or not? Thank you. Please, Vadim Evgenovich Yvchenko raised his hand after his amendments. So, Vadim Evgenovich, amendment numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u282	Yvchenko, Fatherland. 52, 123, 159. But I'm asking for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u283	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u284	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, the bill, in fact, obliges local government authorities and local self - government authorities to ensure the accumulation and maintenance of individual protection facilities for the population regardless of their residence in potentially dangerous emergency zones. But at the same time, colleagues, we understand clearly that there are no costs in the organs and budgets of the communities, colleagues. In capable communities, it's actually going to be like a waste of budget money, and in those communities that don't, they're not going to provide their people who live there directly with the means of individual protection. Our amendments specifically involved improving these inter-budget relations so that everything would not hang on united communities because their ability to do so differed. Regrettably, these adjustments were not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u285	Thank you. We completed the discussion of this bill. We can move on to his acceptance. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving civil protection legislation (project No. 5608). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:54:28]] For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on. The next bill (this is also a second reading) 5498 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on support for scientific and scientific and technical activities (second reading). I invite to the rostrum the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of the Owl Alexander Georgievic. Please, Alexander Georgievich. I was approached by a national MP, Grishuk, for one minute. Is anyone else going to insist? Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Two minutes, right? Two minutes, that's what you're doing. Just call your amendment number first, so that everyone will understand that you are speaking. Grizzly, after that, Tsimbaluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u286	12 revisions. Dear colleagues, as co-author of the bill together with the Education Committee, please support this and the next bill, which our scientists are in great need of. These bills on amendments to the Tax and Customs Code on the removal of import duties and VAT for scientific equipment, reagents and scientific literature. This is the least that we can do with you right now for the development of science, because it's estimated that up to 300 million can stay in this area, and it's very important because science in our country is underfunded. Until the second reading, along with the Academy of Sciences, the National Research Fund and the Committee of Profiles, I think they've worked pretty well on these two laws, and they, if we vote, come into force already this year. So, colleagues, please support the scientists and vote for this and the next bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u287	Thank you. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u288	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear reporter, First Amendment number 8. The amendment proposes to add to the proposed text of the bill and to make article 197.26 of the Tax Code, paragraph 197: "They are exempt from taxation of the import into the customs territory of Ukraine of scientific instruments, equipment, special means of transport, including scientific research vessels, installations, spare parts and waste materials to them, jets, samples, scientific literature in paper and electronic form imported into Ukraine by state scientific institutions and state institutions of higher education to provide their own scientific and scientific and technical activities, in addition to tangible goods." Dear colleagues, support this amendment, it will really support our science. Please put an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u289	Amendment number 8. The committee's position is brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u290	The amendment is rejected because the committee finds it inappropriate to duplicate the codes in two codes at the same time. In keeping with constant practice, UCTZED codes are usually used in the Customs Code, so the Tax Code only refers to the Customs Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u291	Thank you, Your Honor. You heard the proposal and heard the committee's position. I'm betting on the 8th amendment of the people's representative of Cimbaluk. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:01]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Mikhailovich, what's another one of yours? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u292	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Amendment number 13. Dear colleagues, think about it. This right provides for the non-target use of the goods defined in Article 197.26 of the Tax Code, the taxpayer increases the tax liability in the next tax period as a result of the tax period for which the breach occurs, to the amount of the tax to be paid at the time of import of such goods, to pay the fine due under the Code, and to bear the financial and other responsibility established by the Code and other legislation of Ukraine. It should also be noted that Article 197 of the Tax Code already contains the points referred to in this law and this law would resolve the situation. Please support the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u293	Thank you. Before answering that question, I continue to hold meetings to consider questions 5498 and 5499, since these are binding bills. But no more than that. I'm sorry, I have plans too. But no more than 15 minutes. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u294	Amendment 13 is rejected because according to the bill, a list of goods exempt from taxation is set out in the Customs Code. This amendment is completely in the Customs Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-17-m0.u295	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I bet. That's the 23rd amendment, right? What's that? 13 amendments. This is the 13th amendment of the people's representative of Cimbaluk. She was a committee, now, a second, rejected, right? She was rejected by a committee. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[15:00:36]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill, we can move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the Committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the support of scientific and scientific and technical activities (project registration number 5498). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[15:01:15]] For 273 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, and we have agreed that we will continue to consider the next question of 5499. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to support scientific and scientific and technical activities. We can vote 5499, right? Nobody insists? Thank you. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I propose to accept, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the support of scientific and scientific and technical activities (project registration number 5499). Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[15:02:13]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the law is passed in general. Hello, everyone! I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
