ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-15-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, according to our tradition, I propose to begin with the Anthem of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this beautiful tradition should be introduced in further peacetime, for God's sake, as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, today is Russia's 20th day of war against Ukraine. I propose to honor the moment of silence of the fallen heroes who, in their lives, defended independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of our Fatherland, stood up for the ideals of democracy, human rights and freedoms, as well as all the peaceful citizens who were innocently killed by the Russian invaders. I declare a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear national deputies, as you all remember, did not close our plenary session. So today, according to our decision to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of a state of emergency and/or war, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we are continuing our plenary session today. A list of issues that have been agreed upon by the Conciliation Board is given to you. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held now to predict the outcome of the day’s affairs. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote, press the "Z" button to check the system. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:39:46]] For – 335 There's 335 in the hall. Dear colleagues, that's wonderful. Let us now consider matters of today’s order. The first question is Bill 7168. This is a bill approving the Presidential Decree on the continuation of the state of war in Ukraine. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has approved the Presidential Decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. According to article 85, paragraph 31, of the first part of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of military status The President of Ukraine, on 14 March, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 7168) on the approval of the President's Decree on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the issue of the approval of the President's Decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine is considered by the Supreme Council without a vote on the inclusion of it in the agenda and may be brought before the Supreme Council without prior preparation on the committees. We agreed that we're not discussing any of the issues, we're just making the decisions, we've discussed them all on the boards of the committee heads. Therefore, if there are no other suggestions, such order is accepted. So let us move on to making a decision on this matter. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I am betting on a vote to be adopted in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 7168) on the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[13:41:54]] For – 343 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the following questions. Next issue of the bill. There's a few bills, I'll make decisions about one of them. This is Bill 7137-d, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Oil Taxation and Motor Fuels. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments draft Law No.7137-d. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:43:01]] For – 340 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7151. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, to clarify the rules governing the definition of categories of persons who are recognized as war veterans and members of the families of the dead Protectors and Protectors of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7151. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please replace the card. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:06]] For – 344 Decision taken. Next bill 7140-1. This is a draft Act amending certain legislation on persons with disabilities. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain legislation on persons with disabilities (registration number 7140-1). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:44:56]] For – 344 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7147. This is a bill amending the laws of Ukraine on the National Police and on the National Police Disciplinary Statute to optimize police activities, including during the military regime. I propose to include it in the agenda of the day session and to take it as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. This is about Bill 7147. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:45:47.]] For – 343 Decision taken. Next Bill 7145. This is a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian laws on the definition of circumstances that exclude criminal misconduct and provide for combat immunity under the regime of martial law. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. This is about Bill 7145. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:46:35]] For – 344 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is 7149. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the procedure for repealing the precautionary measure for military service during mobilization or amending it for other reasons. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7149. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:24]] For – 341 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is 7133. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding state guarantees under conditions of martial law, emergency or state of emergency. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7133. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:10]] For – 341 Decision taken. The next bill is 6384. This is a draft law amending paragraph 4 with a prim badge. Chapter VI, Final and Transitional Positions, of the Ukrainian Budget Code. I propose to adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law without taking into account the Committee's proposals on the budget bill 6384. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:55]] For – 344 Decision taken. The next bill is 7,143. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges to ensure the permanent functioning of the judiciary during the period of absence of a full composition of the Supreme Council of Justice. I propose to put it into the agenda and to adopt it as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7143. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:49:39]] For – 343 Decision taken. The next bill is 7,154. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7154. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:20]] For – 343 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is 7,152. This is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure the functioning of information and communication systems, electronic communications systems, public electronic registers. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7152. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:51:06]] For – 345 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is 7,130. This is a draft of the Act amending Ukraine's Final Provisions Act on the Military Chaplainship Service on the effective date. I propose to include in the agenda and to adopt, as a whole, and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law 7130. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:51:50]] For – 340 Decision taken. Next bill 71. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7144. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on environmental activities and civil protection for periods of war. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, Bill 7144. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:38]] For – 345 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7161. This is a draft of the Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Border Service of Ukraine on increasing the number of military personnel of the Ukrainian State Border Service. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7161. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:53:20]] For – 344 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7166. This is a bill amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine. I'm proposing to put it into the agenda and take it as a basis and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights and with the committee's decision. Yes, given the committee's decision. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:54:02]] For – 345 Decision taken. Next Bill 7167. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. I also propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to take into account, in general, the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill 7167. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:54:39]] For – 342 Decision taken. Next bill. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. 7160 is the next bill. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Labour Relations Act under martial law. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, Bill 7160. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:55:17]] For – 344 Decision taken. Next Bill 7148. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve the effectiveness of pre-trial investigation of "hot tracks" and counter-cyber attacks. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7148. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:56:00]] For – 343 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. 7157 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms and the legal regime in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory in connection with the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7157. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:56:46]] For – 341 Decision taken. And the final bill of 7038. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the introduction of differentiated remuneration for natural gas extraction. I would like to make a proposal on the basis of, and in general, the decisions of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, 7038. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:57:34]] For – 270 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I'm handing over Alexander. Wait, don't split up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-15-m0.u2	First, we must now vote on the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the bills adopted by the Supreme Council without delay today and to send them to the President immediately. If there's no objection, I'm putting this motion to a vote, please. Please vote. Sending to the signature immediately. Keep your distance, there are still important announcements. Thank you. [[13:58:14]] For – 335 335. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-15-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, there is one more thing we need is a procedural vote and some announcements. I was just told from the apparatus that a statement had been made by Kiwa’s national deputy, Ilya Volodymyrovich, regarding the permanent termination of the terms of office in accordance with part two, paragraph 1, of article 81. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kiwa Ilja Volodymyrovich, wrote an application for his appointment to Moscow. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to suspend the term of office of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Illy Volodymirovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:59:17]] For – 336 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and final. A statement was made by the Ukrainian National Deputies about their withdrawal from the political party's parliamentary faction "The Opposition to the Platform for Life". In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Abramovich Igor Alexanderovich, Plačko Tetyana Mikhailovna, Feldman Alexander Borisovich, Stolar Vadim Mihajlovich, from the political party's deputy faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, all the questions that were scheduled for adoption have been discussed today. I want to thank all the national deputies for their fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of our next meeting in advance. Dear colleagues, with us the truth, with us god, victory will be behind us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-15-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we'll explain the information after 5:00, please. A request to keep this arrangement. After 5:00 a.m., photos, videos and so on. 5:00. Not in 17 hours, it's 5:00. Commander's P.I. hour.
