ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, reverend peoples of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, in Ukraine the delegation of the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania is headed by the Deputy Head of the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania, Paulus Saudargas. The delegation is now in the meeting room of the Supreme Council. Greetings to our distinguished colleagues! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we highly appreciate the consistent and firm support of Ukraine’s independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity on the part of our Lithuanian friends. Thank you! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, besides that, as far as I know, today is the day of Lithuania's independence. And I want to thank you and welcome you to this holiday. And thank you for being with us on this day. Thank you again! [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, today, February 16, 2022, according to the Presidential Decree, have been declared the Day of Joining. On this day, the State Flag of Ukraine was erected on all the administrative buildings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, on the Day of Joining, a team of the National Deserved Ukrainian People's Choir of Ukraine, the name Grigoria Veryovka, will perform the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, at the time of the start of the registration, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep it up until the end of the registration. Are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:05:23]] There are 250 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorary colleagues, heads, and members of a full - time delegation from Lithuania expressed their desire to give short talks. If there is no objection among the national deputies, I invite the distinguished guests to the rostrum for a short talk. Is there no objection? I am very pleased to invite you to the words of the noble Mr. Saudargas.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Speaker, Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk, distinguished colleagues of the Supreme Council, respected brothers and sisters, Ukrainians! I am addressing you today because Ukraine is celebrating the day, as is Lithuania, the day of independence. Over 100 years ago, we declared a free democratic state, and then the occupation happened, which happened to us, but we didn't give up. The Lithuanians, like the Ukrainians, fought in bunkers, in the gulags. We fought with the same enemy, and we conquered the empire of evil. In the 1990s, we declared independence again. And January 1991 is what happened in Vilnius and the Soviet tanks. The Ukrainians stood with us. You and I were together in Maidan during the military aggression in 2014, and we're together and now we're free. Freedom, democracy -- it's all happening in your veins, so we support you, and we support you, as well as the European Union and NATO. Russia cannot and should not fail to gain the veto of NATO membership. Last week we turned to the international community in the event of a military attack to provide military assistance. And the challenges facing Ukraine. Ukraine remains at the centre of world attention, and you remain united within democracy. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u3	I want to thank dear Paulus because I remember his words very well when we first met him. When he said, "I'm very pleased to be with you in Ukraine, I feel at home, but I know it's your home." So I thank you very much for this position, and I always respect the good attitude of you and the Parliament of Lithuania to Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to invite a member of the Committees in foreign affairs and in the affairs of Europe of the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania, a great friend of Ukraine, Mr. Emmanuelis Zingyarías.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Speaker, dear friends, the Day of Unification, as well as the Day of Independence and Freedom of Lithuania, we have come here today to be with you. With regard to the common victory of the democratic world, a common victory. fights for the free democratic elections that you have chosen. We're with you because your society shows. is a leading democratic society in the world. And we will be with you until the end of this war for democracy and the democratic world. If you don't win, then the democratic world won't win. That's why we came here today to be with you to understand that if Ukraine's independence was defeated, democracy would be defeated in the Baltic countries, and it would become dictatorship. We are independent, and on behalf of those who signed under Ukraine's independence, Professor Landsbergis, we claim that we stand together until the last moment, until Ukraine is fully independent. We will fight in every possible parliamentary direction, like Maria Mezenceva in the Council of Europe, who claimed that the Russian army had moved away from the Ukrainian borders. I would also like to say that we have won the struggle in the democratic world, but not only by voting, we will be fighting and military, that is, we should be military here, our brothers and sisters. From the 13th to the 14th year, Lithuania and the European Union offered you a European Association Agreement. And I remember that. I remember how your people said yes, and Mr. Yanukovich was handed over to impeachment, thus starting Maidan. Today they claim Putin is now against your NATO membership. That's all. So it's a war against free choice, it's against what's written in the Constitution. And it's a war against Ukraine and a chosen direction for Ukraine's development. But we want to assure you that we will be with you until the end, and we want to make that statement. We just learned our lessons in the '90s. We became independent again in the '90s, and we realized in the '90s that we needed to get under NATO's umbrella as quickly as possible. And when you do. We want you to become NATO members as soon as possible, that's what we're saying. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Thank you, Emmanuelis. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the distinguished Lithuanian guests. It is very important to us that, at all political levels of your state and in Lithuanian society, there is unanimity support for Ukraine, including at the level of parliament. We thank you very much for participating in today’s plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Dear People's Deputies, today is the birthday of our colleague of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Svetoslav Andriyovich Juras, "Serve of the People". Let's welcome him, too. Welcome! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements and messages. I invite the National Deputies to sign up for the performance. Please. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP's "Trust". Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the day is remarkable for our nation, the day is extremely serious, responsible, the day that has been defined as a test for the entire Ukrainian nation, for our citizens, and a day that leads to serious reflection. There's been a lot of discussion lately about the notion of "national idea." Theorists reason that this is what may actually be the global factor that unites the entire Ukrainian nation. I want to say that, as any great idea, a national idea, I think it's made up of more important factors, and one of them is the issue of national security and defence, the ability of the Ukrainian nation, Ukrainian citizens to defend their country, to ensure the lives of their families, their fellow countrymen. And today, I call on everyone to understand how responsible and important the steps must be that are being taken by all authorities, starting with the central, local governments, leaders and representatives of the territorial communities, to ensure the territorial defence force of our country. I ask the question: why did it have to wait for this day, February 16, to hold, say, district council sessions, district council sessions and city councils at which to make decisions and to start some process of creating conditions for the formation of brigades and territorial defence battalions? We need to make it clear that only by means of the State, the financial resources of the State will we not be able to ensure the full functioning of these units of the already armed forces of Ukraine. We need to realize that protecting our territories, protecting our citizens is a national and a common thing for all. So today, I call again for a whole set of measures, a large-scale campaign of advocacy among the territorial communities, and a call for all to work together. Only by making joint decisions can we speak today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given to Sofia Romanovna Fedina. Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u8	Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, first of all, I want to say aciu Lietuva! I want to thank our Lithuanian friends. Let's give them another round of applause, and welcome them to the national festival. Allikinimas! We wish you the best, we know what connection is. Uniting is when an independent Lithuania can be, only when an independent Ukraine, an independent Poland can be, only when Ukraine is independent. Independent Ukraine can be only when independent Lithuania, Czech Republic, Poland, other friends of ours. Only together can we create a European family. And today, the biggest sign of connection is the air bridge that conveys arms to Ukraine from the United States, from the United Kingdom, from Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Czech Republic, from all those countries that are helping us today, Denmark, Sweden, from other countries that are close to Ukraine. That's the connection. I'm sure today from this rostrum we have to say again: Donetsk is Ukraine, Lugansk is Ukraine, Crimea is Ukraine. May the State Duma of the Russian Federation, under Putin's direction, accept anything, no one and never in the world recognises the alienation of these Ukrainian lands from Ukraine, the alienation of these lands from the European family. Because what "Russian peace" does, it destroys everything around it, destroying the perspective of both countries and their lives. But together, together, together with our Europeans, together with our American, British partners, we stand. Friends, today, on this day, we need to make decisions about supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces, because this is the kind of haircut that our nation holds on to, is the kind of haircut that holds on to the independence of our state. And it's them, the boys and the girls, the men and the women who are defending Ukraine today, that are really defending both Lithuania and Poland and the entire civilized world. Friends, let's unite, let's unite around our common values, around our European perspective and the future, around our Armed Forces, which will precisely protect Ukraine. And it is because we are prepared that our partners around us, just because every city in the Russian occupation is going to become a fortress, that no one is going to climb into Ukraine tonight, and that we will not lick until we are united inside and with our partners. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u9	Heroic glory! The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Montenegro's Yegor Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, distinguished guests! I want to welcome all of us to the Day of Unity. But first of all, I want to thank all those who have not given in to panic and stayed here in Ukraine in this room. I want to thank myself and my colleagues to the President of Ukraine, who at the most difficult time acted as a true leader of the state. I want to thank our Foreign Ministry, which has led us to believe that Ukrainian diplomacy is one of the best in the world. We mobilized alongside Ukraine all the major democratic countries in the world. I would like to thank the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the law enforcement authorities, who have demonstrated their unwavering will and willingness to protect our country at the cost of their lives. You are the main factor that keeps Russia from further aggression. I want to thank our partners who, at the most difficult time, have set our shoulders and helped us diplomatically, militarily, informationally and have made us stronger. But most of all, I want to thank our Ukrainian people, who are fascinated by the whole world today. The compatriots, the Ukrainian people, it is your endurance and peace, your cold determination and willingness to defend the country that impressed not only our allies but also our enemies. In the Kremlin, panic and chaos were expected, but they did not wait and wait because we have the spirit of our glorious ancestors, the spirit of the famous Cossacks. All of us together, power and opposition, country leadership and society, have demonstrated unprecedented unity in the face of the aggressor. And I am sure that in the case of aggression, all of us together, regardless of our status, wealth, or party affiliation, will become shoulder to shoulder and will do our civic duty together in one trench. The unity shown by our society is one thing: The Ukrainian nation is strengthening, growing, and becoming a model of courage and courage for other nations. And as long as we're alone, we're invincible. With the celebration of your unity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u11	Heroic glory! The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy Boris Viktorovich, MP "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Shahov Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u13	Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u14	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we talk a lot about unity, and it really is. We want to thank Lugansk and the whole east of Ukraine, as well as our colleagues who support us abroad today. I'd like to go to every parliamentarian today and look at our foreign partners, how they live, take examples from those countries, see how our foreign partners feed their inhabitants. Today, UNICEF gives us statistics that 9.8 million people are starving in Ukraine, that ministers are reporting that Ukraine feeds 400 million people abroad, and that the Ukrainians who chose us cannot feed us. A populist decision was made to raise the kind of wages that doctors needed both during war and during peacetime. Today, doctors are going abroad to work, and we cannot make promises either. Today, the medics are sitting at 0.25 bets. In Hmelnicki, the city council, borrowed credit from the bank to pay the medics a salary. Ministers also claim a normal standard of living. There is no normal standard of living in Ukraine today because there are collaborators and traitors in Kabmin. Our troops are defending our borders today. And we understand that we stand firm and can repel any attack. The main problem is the corruption of the problems in Kabmin, which. We need to become fully surgeons and cut out this filthy stain that is killing Ukraine today. Energy crisis. There is no coal in the state, and miners don't get their wages, and so on. People are coming out of the state in a mass way. Who today, in Kabmini, to pay a salary or oversight board for 100 million dollars of bonuses when their grandmother receives a pension of 1,900 dollars? When people can't feed their children today. How can anyone show off today that's in this office of the President in Cabmine? Yes, should we unite and see how other nations live? The three ministers had to be first planted, which are now collaborators in Ukraine, and then the state would normally begin to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u15	The word is given to the national deputy, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u16	I'd like to give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u17	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I want to welcome all of us to this important day – the Day of Connection. And to point out that it is the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelensky, who is doing everything in his initiative both politically and externally to ensure the unity and integrity of our sovereign state of Ukraine. In recent days, in recent weeks in the media space, our political colleagues, who call themselves political opposition, have been very often called for urgent increases in the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the need to allocate 50 billion more to security and defence. The People's Service Political Party certainly supports the President of Ukraine in order to increase the security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the security and defence sectors. But we call on Unity Day not to turn calls into political speculation. Because on the question where the number of 50 billion came from, our political opponents say it was counted by some analysts. It's probably those analysts who calculated in October the energy collapse in Ukraine, these are the analysts who calculated the vortex power cuts, the tariff hikes, and so on. But President Zelensky's political party "The Servant of the People" is doing everything in its power to ensure, above all, the economic growth of the state. And I want to point out that without economic growth, without the record GDP we had in the 21st year, this is the first time in the history of Ukraine 200 billion dollars, 200 billion dollars is a record GDP, which is why we were able to provide security and defence with record funding of 330 billion dollars, which has never happened. And to call for the removal from the social sphere, from the medical sphere, from the education sphere, from the economy of money, and to go to defense without sufficient financial and economic justification is pure populism. The head of the committee, Alexander Zavlnevich, representative of our political force, head of the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, has registered a comprehensive bill that is consistent with the Ministry of Finance, with the Armed Forces, to increase the financing of the security and defence sector. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky has been in charge since September 1. As of March 1, this year, 15 days later, the military’s money will increase by 30 percent. Vladimir Zelensky's team, the "Serve of the People" political party, is doing everything possible to develop the economy and strengthen the resilience of our state. And in these two directions, backed by foreign political efforts, we will ensure the unity of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Dmitry of Dmitry Davidovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u20	I ask you to give the word to Alexander Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u21	Alexander Kowalczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the Presidium, dear Ukrainians! Why is it necessary to have a Day of Atonement, and why is it today? Ukraine is at the centre of unprecedented diplomatic efforts to guarantee peace for both our state and for all Europe as a whole. Of course, we are doing everything we can to ensure that the efforts of diplomats are successful. The basis for their work is the clear functioning of the entire state machinery and, above all, our Armed Forces. Our military is stronger than ever during independence. Our diplomats are more effective than ever. The main task for government officials and the entire system of government, both central and local, is to ensure the stability of state institutions and a normal social life. But we see an unprecedented information voltage that has been increasing over several months. We have to speak honestly: the tension in the information space and the anxiety of the people that provokes this informational tension are very serious challenges for the state. This directly affects the situation of financial markets, economics, the mood of citizens, and business. The real security situation is much better today than many media. But it is clear that constant informational shocks on people’s emotions could not fail to produce negative results, especially when some intrusions are even announced in the media. That's why President Zelensky proposed a very timely and effective initiative: we take the day on which we "wanted" the worst, and we make it the day of our greatest unity. Why is this necessary? To show that, in principle, there are no forces and information waves that can break Ukrainians. On the 16th of February, on the Day of Joining, there will be measures throughout the country that will accurately show our friends and our enemies that Ukraine is united, caring for itself and willing to defend its freedom and independence. Can we be intimidated? No, it's not. Are we taking the situation seriously? Yes. Are we preparing for any scenarios? Absolutely. But we know that this is our land and our Ukraine. That's what we're demonstrating on Unite Day. This day will be historic. We are now demonstrating, and this will be remembered forever, that in the face of enough external threats and constant efforts to destabilize the internal situation in our country, our willingness to protect the state is also the greatest. The more Ukrainians, organizations, and media participate in the celebration of the Day of Connection, the better. It's not about politics, it's not about power, it's about the state. And President Vladimir Zelensky, as head of state, invites every Ukrainian to show that the freedom and independence of Ukraine, as well as the unity of the people, are the most precious to us all. Let's get together! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u23	Heroic glory! The word is given to the National Deputy Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u24	Sobolje, Fatherland. Yesterday, for Ukraine and for the whole world, it's a waste of confirmation that any "munchen plots" and the Molotov-Ribbentrop pacts lead not to peace, but to war. When 310 criminals in the Russian State Duma voted in favour of trying to recognize the so-called LNR, DNR, it's no different than voting in the 14th year when other criminals, and sometimes the same, demanded Putin to bring troops into the territory of the sovereign Ukraine. The world is facing a choice: whether we get a new Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, or whether we can stop not only aggression against Ukraine, but also world war. In fact, today, from our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from all the institutions of power and from the President, it depends on how this position will be brought to the world community. In fact, today we have symbolic guests from Lithuania -- those who first suffered from the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, as well as representatives from other free countries in Europe, who first experienced the horror of so-called conspiracies and then lost their independence. That's why for the Fatherland faction today is the most important moment: whether we go to Steinmeyer's plan, the new plan of Molotov-Ribbentrop, and the so-called political arrangements will be key, and Ukraine's and the world's security is secondary, or whether we can go back to the guarantees that have been given to the actual key countries that are still taking part in these defining events today. I mean the Budapest Memorandum and this position, which is now clearly declared by one of the countries that guaranteed Ukraine's security, I mean the United States and the Kingdom of Great Britain, which have clearly shown that the new Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact cannot be. That's why our faction insists on putting into order the day-to-day issue, where clear guarantees are actually given.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u25	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich. He's giving Irina Volodymyr's word to Heratchenko. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u26	Dear Ukrainians, 30 years ago the Soviet Union did not disintegrate because people were tired of the artificial paphos of Soviet agitprop. For more than 30 years, Ukraine has held on to genuine patriotism, which is in no way tied to the fingers of artificial dates. 100 years ago, more than 100 years ago, this is a historic date, in 1919, a distant Ukrainian signed the Day of Wrath, and on January 22 we celebrate the Day of Assembly, and the Day of Unity, but of course, the unity of hearts should be every day. And it is very naive to believe that a decree can stop the war with Putin. Because then tomorrow we have to give Greene an order that we beat Russia, burn it somewhere in Midan, and enjoy life. In fact, however, the enemy did not abandon his aggressive plans, and more than 150,000 Russian military personnel are near Ukrainian borders. And yet, as the world’s spies rightly say, they have not gone anywhere. And the fact that the Russian troops today are only in the occupied Ukrainian Crimea and the temporarily occupied Ukrainian Donbassa, not in all Ukrainian cities, is the credit of the modernized Ukrainian army and our allies, who have changed, the glory of God, the tactics that support Ukraine today, including the military, and who, in non-stop mode, have simply given all of these Kremlin's conquest plans, have been leaking the news of the day. And I want to say what the Ukrainian Parliament should do here. I'm sorry, but yesterday, in fact, the Russian Federation came out of the Minsk Accords one by one, as it had previously come out of the Budapest Memorandum, from the Great Agreement on Friendship and Cooperation. And in fact, today we are again calling on Zelensky to immediately assemble the Security and Defence Council and include personal sanctions against every deputy of the State who supported this appeal for the so-called "L/DNR" recognition and to appeal to our international partners for personal sanctions against these scum. The other one. We appeal to the Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Stefanchuk, immediately today, to all the inter-parliamentary assemblies about the inability of the Russian delegation to attend, because it was these people who voted in favour of the so-called L/PNR. And of course, today's daytime is supposed to have laws to support the Ukrainian army. This isn't "European Solidarity" talking about 50 billion extra -- it's a request and a request from the Secretary of Defense that you've chosen. Where can I get the money? From the "great theft" that's already taken 10 billion dollars, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u27	The word is given to the national deputy of the country of Sofia, Romanovna Fedini. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u28	My fellow MPs, I am very sorry to hear in this sessionary room the condemnation of the great attention of our international partners to what is happening in Ukraine, and the very clear question that the Moscow Federation is an aggressor and is a terrorist country for which we must be prepared every moment, especially when over a hundred thousand troops of the Moscow army are concentrated in the perimeter of our border. Today, in fact, if you look from the international point of view, there is an extraordinary chance for Ukraine, particularly for Ukrainian diplomacy, that you will finally have the opportunity around the world to secure the right markers and get rid of these short talks and positions that Ukraine will have to agree or negotiate with the Moscow Federation. Because in fact, the Moscow Federation is an aggressor. The Moscow Federation is not a negotiating country or a peacekeeping country, it is a terrorist country that destroyed the world's international security system established after World War II in the 14th year. It is a country that has violated most of the international treaties and basic treaties, in particular human rights. It's a country that doesn't care about all democratic manifestations, and it's a country that doesn't care who thinks about it. What's more, the Moscow Federation is using democratic mechanisms to target them against democratic states. And today, Ukraine is not to be excused for its choice, for its military position, for its defence, for the armed defence of its sovereign territory, this Moscow federation must be punished for crimes against Ukrainian statehood, for crimes against the entire democratic civilised world. And today, instead of condemning our partners, Ukraine, together with our colleagues, should actively raise the issue of depriving Moscow of membership and the veto at the UN Security Council; the issue of the United Nations peacekeeping contingent to be deployed in ORDLO territory; the issue of the air umbrella over Ukraine against Moscow aggression; the issue of non-acceptance of the North Stream-2 as part of the hybrid war of the Moscow Federation against Ukraine; the issue of the threat of Crimea and the Moscow threat in the Black Sea Basin, threats to democratic countries and their security; the imposition of sanctions on all so-called deputies of the "dherry" who voted in favour of the recognition of the so-called separatist republics; and again raise the question of the hostages. This is what Ukraine, the Supreme Council, should do.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u29	The word is given to the Ukrainian People's Deputy of the City of Jury Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". And this is going to be the final performance. Then we go to the day - to - day issues. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u30	Good afternoon, distinguished Presidium and National Deputies! Today, February 16, Ukraine celebrates the Day of Connection. Finally, after 3 years of his presidency, Ukrainian President Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski returned to the ideals by which he won the presidential election in 2019 and became President of Ukraine. And more specifically, the ideas that Vladimir Zelensky's team borrowed from the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" and Victor Medvedchuk. Because it was Victor Medvedchuk who said for the first time that Ukrainian society should be united, that Ukraine should be stitched up, that the residents of Donbas should be returned to Ukraine because of their mentality. Mr. President, in order to unite Ukraine, it is not enough just to bring together U.S. citizens and signed decrees, because your team has been working to disengage Ukraine, dividing Ukrainians into the right and wrong, introducing violent Ukrainianization, twisting history, Ukrainian history, heroizing fascist servants, destroying the memory of the heroes of the Great Homeland War. It was your reintegrator, Reznikov, who called Donbas a cancer tumor. It was your national deputies who called Ukrainian children children of very low quality. You're the one who showed up with a revolution against the term "Great Fatherland War" in the first place. It is your Sharikovs and Shwonders, Kremens, Danilovs, Rezniks and Tucks that will continue to split Ukraine apart. Mr. President, if you really want to unite Ukraine, we suggest that you use the form of national success offered to Ukrainian society by Victor Medvedchuk. Mr. President, in order to become a truly national holiday, it is necessary to introduce a moratorium on issues that divide Ukrainian society and to work on the issues that unite society: the real people, the raising of living standards, social guarantees and the real economy. Because a peaceful, stable, democratic, independent Ukraine is a country of every Ukrainian's dream. And today, we can make this dream a reality by implementing the peace plan of "The Opposition Platform for Life" and working out the parliamentary dimension of the Minsk format proposed by Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk, and starting a dialogue on the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. That's right, because of the dialogue we can make the only strong.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is exhausted, so let us move on to the day - to - day issues. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you. Let us go to their consideration. And the first question (well, we're not going into it yet) is a project. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please, intellectual from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u32	Good morning, Ruslan Alexiyovich! Good morning, dear colleagues! We've had a non-plenary week, we've worked in committee mode, so there's a proposal under the Order that's registered with me and my colleagues in Smart Politics next plenary week. Make it a plenary next week. The number of this Order 7050. I appeal to you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiyovich, to put this question to a vote. It doesn't need to be included in the agenda, and it needs to be considered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u33	Dmitri Alexanderovich, of course, does not need to be included in the agenda, but he needs a committee decision. So let's wait for the committee, and then we'll bring it in. Thank you. My fellow Members, before we move on to 7001, these are also questions related to the interim commissions -- I hereby announce that, in accordance with the provisions of part seven of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law, "On temporary commissions and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", article 88 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, and taking into account the appeal of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kamelchuk of February 15, 2022, I hereby declare the termination of the powers of the Interim Follow-up Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the causes of the damage to coal and industrial enterprises in connection with the completion of the defined legislative deadline for their activities. Now let's move on to the agenda. We have the registration number for Project 7001. It's Project Order. Honorary colleagues, the draft Decision on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification and assessment of the status of the Ukrainian Railway Association, the investigation of possible inactivity, the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of the listed enterprise, which has led to a significant deterioration in the technical condition of the enterprise and the main production indicators. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 88 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we can move on to the report of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Here we go to the draft of the above-mentioned regulation (registration number 7001). Such an arrangement is proposed. A report by the head of the commission of inquiry, up to four minutes, an answer to questions from the national MPs, up to nine minutes, statements from the MPs and groups, up to 21 minutes, as we always do, is three minutes to speak, and a decision to make. That's 34 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, is there no objection? Then let us move on to the question. The report invites the head of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Julia Mikolayovna Grishina. Please, in four minutes, Julia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u34	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, with the Day of Joining All of Us! Glory to Ukraine! The economy of our country, as well as the security of our country, depends on the operation of rail transport, regardless of the differences of opinion. The work of the Temporal Investigations Commission on the subject of the Crossroads has resulted in a report of more than 180 pages with deep analysis and facts, with specific reasons for the crisis of the Crucifixion and the names of those who, by their actions or by their inaction, have led the railway to a deadlock. The crisis came to the Crucifixion not today or yesterday. The TSC studied the work period from 2015 to 2020, and we discovered all the signs of a systematic destruction of a strategic enterprise, which systematically and methodically led to poverty, the destruction of infrastructure, the non-improvement of a movement warehouse, the disillusionment of staff. The findings of our TSC have been confirmed one by one by the other. First. Ukraine’s State Audit Service, which reported 61 billion financial violations in the UK. The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, which also drew attention to the multimillion dollar damage caused by the introduction of small-scale ratings. The Ukrainian National Court of Auditors, which noted that more than 12,000 hectares of railways do not have valid documents and there is a risk of loss of these assets, says problems in the UZ and the public sector. All of this just confirms the fact that our temporary investigation committee was very accurate and objectively diagnosed with all the diseases of the Ukrzalznice. During the work of the TSC, the Supervisory Board was changed, and two compositions of the UZ government were changed. But to say that it has already been possible to stop the destruction of rail transport is premature. From the positive. Thanks to the work of the TSK, thanks to the initiative of the new team of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Ukraine has been able to raise freight tariffs, which will be able to get UZ plus 14 billion dollars this year, plus 4 billion dollars will get UZ, it will spend less on electricity purchases by introducing direct electricity contracts. But, unfortunately, this has not happened today. At the full rate of rail transport reform so far, there will be unfulfilled, time-consuming or short-term regulatory acts that will provide a road map for the reform of rail transport and the implementation of our Association Agreement with the EU. One of the key tasks of the Kabminu today is to ensure the management of the Railroad by professionals who will be able to prevent the slowing down of logistics and solve the problems of train traffic and safety at Ukrzalznice. As representatives of Parliament, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we must make rail transport safe and secure. So today, colleagues, on Unity Day, I appeal to you to join us now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. I ask the National Deputies to sign up for a question to the head of the interim commission of inquiry. The word is given to the national deputy of Zimmerluku Mikhailovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u36	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I'd like to give it to a colleague of Bondari's.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u37	Constantine Bondarev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u38	National Deputy Bondarev, Fatherland faction. We've worked together on a lot of questions and we've come up with things that are in the report of the interim commission of inquiry. I had only one question left, which unfortunately we did not raise during our meetings. On what qualification issues and how exactly was the famous railwayman Sergey Lechchenko reinstated at work on the Supervisory Board, and he's the one leading the fight against corruption? And how can we link the issue of fighting corruption to the leadership of Sergey Lechchenko in this direction for the last three years, for which we have paid you money from our wallet for his salary? What has he done over the past three years? Why he was assigned.?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u39	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u40	Mr. Constantine, thank you for your question. I want to tell you that the answer to the question of who is leading corruption in different directions refers to the work of our law enforcement agencies. And we will observe their work, only they have the right to make such decisions. I want to say that, you remember that we have activated the work of the entire law enforcement system on the prevention of crimes at the Crossroads, and on the punishment of those who committed these crimes. And now NABU is working actively with those people whose names we named in the interim report. There are now open criminal cases, there are searches, and law enforcement agencies are actively working in this area. As for Lechchenka, you know that he is not appointed by a temporary commission of inquiry, not by Grishna Yulia Mikolayivna, is a special procedure: Kabmin, is the Nomination Committee that makes these decisions. And they need to be addressed directly in.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u41	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to the Third-Layer Galina Mikolayevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u42	Thank you. Trelyakova, "Serve of the people." I have enough technical questions. But first, I want to thank you, Mrs. Julius, for organizing the work of this TSC and for the initiative, and for all the members of your TSC, because a very well-made report. And, of course, everyone understands the problems of corporate governance at the Railroad, but my question will be, as I said, a technical question: about wagons. Have you concluded whether there is a need to buy new wagons, or can we repair that wagon warehouse that is today in Ukrzalznice at our car repair plants according to the localization of our businesses? Have you made economic comparisons, or is it appropriate to buy new wagons, or can you repair what is there? What is the economic gain of the Crucifixion? And why do we politically decide to buy a new warehouse? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u43	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u44	Mrs. Galina, thank you for asking. This is really a very topical issue today, and we've been very actively discussing it at a meeting, at several meetings of the interim commission of inquiry. Indeed, we all realize that in our country we have all the infrastructure (all the infrastructure!) is outdated because for many years no one has done infrastructure upgrades in general in the country. The same is true of the railway infrastructure. Each one of us, who has once used the services of the Crucifixion, understands the disgraceful condition it is in. So there's the President of Ukraine's New Railway program, which envisions an upgrade to the mobile warehouse. There was a lot of discussion about how to do this, what year to start? But clearly, we also stand on the Ministry of Infrastructure, which will gradually update the mobile warehouse, the established deadlines. And it really has to be done directly at our Ukrainian factories. So that's how we kill two rabbits: we're upgrading infrastructure, citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u45	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Mikola Leonidovich Skorik, please the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u46	Madam Commissioner, I wanted to ask you if there were any questions at the committee meetings regarding, in one of the previous questions, the question was raised as to the supervisory boards, in general their existence, the adequacy of their salaries? How much do they really have a positive impact on the work of an enterprise, well, specifically the Crossroads? Because this is the case with other large state enterprises. And are there any recommendations from the interim commission of inquiry and conclusions on this matter? That's the first question. And the second question. Have you been able to consider the issue of the social infrastructure of Ukrzalznice, primarily the medical link? Because in its time, the medical link, the railway medical link, was one of the best in the country, and there are great risks that when the cruiser passes this link to the level of local authorities, we may lose these health facilities, and in our time, I emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u47	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Scorch. In fact, the issue of the mechanism of work of the supervisory boards, their salaries, the effectiveness of the work of the supervisory boards was one of the first issues that we considered at the first session of the interim commission of inquiry. We had invited members of the Supervisory Board, and we listened to members of the Governing Body. Indeed, there are many problems, and the interim commission of inquiry is still in the interim report, which, by the way, was supported by this room by almost a constitutional majority, has given its recommendations. We really think that corporate governance reform should be, it's a European practice, it should stay, but we're still very young in that direction, we need to analyse the mistakes that are, and correct, correct this reform in general, there really are a lot of problems. And all the conclusions, the recommendations, the salary analysis, all this information is contained in the report of the interim commission of inquiry, because it's the main authority of the administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u49	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u50	Thank you. Madam, I understand your unwillingness to answer my colleague Constantine Bondarev's questions about the appointment of Sergio Leschchenka, but I will ask you this question again. I don't understand why the parliamentary Tsk didn't study how this particular person got into the board of supervisors of one of the Ukrainian monopolies, where corruption is not overpowered, where normal services are not available. I want to remind you that Sergey Leschchenko himself is a person who has never been able to explain to anti-corruption authorities where he got elite property in the center of town. And at the same time, you're saying that he was assigned there by another nomination commission, and we didn't deal with it. Why didn't you handle it? Why didn't you figure out how these people got into the U.S. Attorney's Office? These are the people who are saying that the question of why the railway is knocking on wheels is the commercial secret of the railway. How do people with such competence and reputation manage the Crossroad?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u51	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u52	Thank you so much for asking me again, Mr. Sergei. I want to tell you that our interim commission of inquiry, once again, has begun with the work of members of the Supervisory Boards, with an analysis of the effectiveness and effectiveness of their work. And we've recognized the previous composition of the board of supervisors as having to be changed, and we've found their work ineffective. We all remember, if anyone does not remember, that the composition of the Supervisory Board has been updated literally recently, and we have not returned to the review of the composition of the review board since our commission was almost finished. Once again, I remind you that today we have the opportunity to discuss the current issues of the Crossroads rather than to focus on one person whose appointment the interim commission of inquiry has nothing to do with it. And once again, the results of the work of the previous board of supervisors were declared ineffective by the interim commission of inquiry, and we spoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u53	Thank you. Final question to the reporter. National Deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u54	Kowalczuk Alexander, Ravenskin, "Serve of the People". Dear Mrs. Julius, I know you as a highly professional person, so I believe that the work of the interim commission of inquiry will bring its results, and your report as an important guide for us and the national deputies will also benefit us. I wonder what we, as legislators, in your opinion and in the opinion of the interim commission of inquiry, can do, to improve, to improve, from the point of view of the laws and working conditions of the University, so that our Ukrainian business, our agriculture, our metallurgy, our drug users finally begin to receive quality services. Since there is a great deal of complaint about the Crucifixion, it is our responsibility to you. And I would very much like to understand and know what we need to do as legislators in order to improve the work of this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. In fact, you said quite correctly, we have a state-owned strategic enterprise, and it's our joint work and our joint responsibility to do everything we can to get the University out of the terrible critical state it's in today. The first thing we need from the legislators. The committee is now running out of work on the new Rail Transport Act. This will be the first serious push towards the reforms that must be. I'm not doing that, you know, exaggeration, and I'll tell you that our interim commission of inquiry has done everything possible to significantly activate the work of all the state executives, the law enforcement agencies, and pay attention to the critical situation in which the Crucifixion is located. Now I am asking everyone to support our report, and we will have to continue to control that all the recommendations and conclusions of the interim commission of inquiry are carried out at all levels.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Head of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Please take your place. And we're moving on to the report, so please sign up from the MP factions and groups, which takes up to 21 minutes, three minutes for each faction and group. Please. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u57	Please give Alexia the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u58	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u59	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. It's a shame that we didn't hear from our temporary commission of inquiry, and what was the cause of the dramatic deterioration in the condition of Uzrzliznice in 2019 and 2020 for the new power that went, telling us that everything was going to be okay, that everything would be okay. Maybe it's because the board of temporary investigation represents the "Serve of the People" and the authorities are the "Serve of the People"? But, my friends, as we comment, look, I'm the one who's taking the report from the Interim Investigation Commission. The total revenue of Ukrzalznice 2018 — $2.5 billion, $2.4 billion, 2020 — dropped by almost 10 percent in 2020. Next, the numbers are terrible after transport. When the interim investigation committee itself finds that in the first quarter of 2021 we have as much as negative 7 percent. What led to this? And when you say that the oversight council has nothing to do with it, how could it be, and who was to supervise, and for what did they supervise? You created instead of the board of supervisors who robbed the Crucifixion with guys like Sergey Lechchenko, this is Ukraine's well-deserved railroad driver. How can I explain to people in my district in the city of Podilsk, where one of the biggest railway depots is, why they get to the bottom of their salaries, why they're being transferred to a halfway house, why do managers, workers, and car drivers just get to the bottom of their salaries, and Sergius Lechchenko gets hundreds of thousands of dollars a month? It's the same hole that needs to be removed from the Crucifixion, and there's a lot of it. Why do we actually finance the pianists who are Lechchenko for money? Why do they ride the Waves for this money and drink whiskey for 60,000 bucks a bottle? I'm not exaggerating right now, that's what's going on at the Crucifixion. How does this explain the tens of thousands of people who have spent their entire lives in the Crucifixion? I'm driving and I'm meeting a leading woman who's been working for 30 years and today she says she gets 11, 10, 9,000 dollars, or she's being transferred, she's not even getting a full bet, and at that time, there's a supervisory board, how can you explain that to people? So I want to tell you that you have law enforcement organs that should have been planted long ago. It's a shame they're only busy with opposition, so you're not up to it, you're creating a TSC on the TSC, a supervisory board on the supervisory board, and there's no result, and the Crucifixion is going to break. Get back! And we really need to save this strategic enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u60	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mamyan Suto Choloevich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u61	Please give the word to the Shufresich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u62	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u63	Thank you. Your Honor, our faction supports the report. We believe that the disadvantages that have taken place at the Crossroads should be assessed accordingly. But now the main question is, where are they going? And you know, I want to go again from this rostrum to all my fellow national deputies on the ninth vocation that I have some terrible rain. I remember the 14th year when we watched us lose the Crimea: first the referendum was scheduled for May 25th, then moved on March 31st, then on March 16th, and no one believed it could happen. Now no one believes that we can lose Donbas permanently or for a long time. I can hear white in my heart when I'm told, but you care about Donbas because you're voted for. But no, I am absolutely convinced that as a political party that today has one of the greatest levels of support, we will find our voters and supporters in all of Ukraine. But today, Greensky demands the responsibility of Turkinov and Yatzenuk for the loss of Crimea. I wouldn't want the successors to demand Zelensky's responsibility for the final loss of Donbas. We need to hear Germany, we need to hear France, we need to hear Byden, who are calling for the Minsk Accords to be fulfilled in full. And this is a guarantee of halting the crisis and bringing Ukraine back to a peaceful path. Now, on all of these issues, in power, and if Putin recognizes DNR and LNR, will they continue to be called DNR and LNR to file claims on Donetsk and the Lugansk region, or will that end? We have to do everything: concentrate in Parliament to demonstrate to the world the inability to recognize the so-called DNR, LNR. But there have to be concrete steps, and if the President's Office and Greensky aren't able to take these steps, eventually in the parliamentary-presidential Republic we have to do it. Already in Moldova, there are two unrecognized republics in Georgia. And I don't want Ukraine to have unrecognizable so-called "DNR," "LNR," because that's Ukraine and that's where the Ukrainians live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u64	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stepi Sergija Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Igor Murdy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u66	Igor Murdy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u67	Good afternoon! Murdy Igor, Kirovgrad, 100 district. Dear colleagues, the interim commission of inquiry on the subject of the University was created to identify the causes of the crisis at the University and to stop the collapse into a strategic state-owned enterprise. Of course, the whole report can't be contained in a few minutes, but I'd like to stop at a few things and thesis. In the interim commission of inquiry, we named the facts that led the Railway to such a difficult situation and clearly identified the names of the persons and leaders involved in the actual destruction of the enterprise. The report contains specific facts and analysis that indicate that the Crossroads were systematically and methodically destroyed. In fact, in the last five years, no reforms have been carried out, but they have been simulated with the aim of embezzling and robbing the company. Indeed, in 2021, including the temporary commission of inquiry, a freight tariff was raised, and this should level the business’s economic situation. But the costs that are additionally received are going to have to be spent, most importantly, effectively, which, unfortunately, we're not seeing right now. Sadly, people are guided by the Crucifixion without professional knowledge and skills, which also leads to negative consequences. I would also like to point out that, in the interim commission of inquiry, we not only noted the facts and problems but also offered a real road map to get out of the crisis. Now the question is how effectively all of these materials will be based on the Crossroads as well as criminal conduct to attract those responsible, whose work has led to this state of state enterprise. During the period of operation of the interim commission of inquiry, all involved in the work, the great work of the entire commission, were carried out in a colossal manner, for which no amount of budget was spent, as opposed to the initiatives of Ukrazlice, regularly using the services of foreign so - called experts and advisors. So, Your Honor, I'm asking you to support the report of the interim commission of inquiry regarding the Crossroads. And I want to point out to the predecessors that the interim commission of inquiry has studied for five years, not two, as noted.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u68	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimenko Yulia Leonidini, the "Golos" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we're going to support this TSC report, it's much more professional, more quality than the first one. I thank the interim commission of inquiry that, after my comments and criticisms, they counted a large part, and this report has become much more detailed than it was before. That's why we're going to support it, but I want to stress the following. The thing is, the report, it finds the fact that it's happening right now, how the railroad feels. It's like, you know, it reminds us of a body that's getting stronger, it's kind of what things are now at the Crucifixion. She doesn't need therapy, she needs resuscitation, maybe adrenaline into her heart, I don't know. But as things are now going on at the University, unfortunately it won't work, because there must be a very high-quality crisis management that will bring this company in order and start to develop. What do I want to tell you? You and I now have military aggression, which may be escalating, even if military aggression falls, the next phase of hybrid war will begin, and economic aggression itself, economic war. And the cruiser, which has more than 5 percent of our GDP, is a huge amount of our economy, which actually fully supports our exports, our internal transports, it's the backbone of our economy. We can't afford during an economic war to have a business that actually, let's say, dies. That year, according to the TSC report, the loss amounted to 8 billion, with virtually all shipments being renewed in 2021. This year he's showing some profit, but let's take a fair look at what's going on at Ukrazlaznice: on the basis of passenger safety and on the basis of a reduction in capital investment. Therefore, gentlemen, we urge that the plan for the Crucifixion be not current in order to eat and eat and mortify everything that is in the Crucifixion Center should be resuscitative in order to restore the composition of the wagons. In the 21st year alone, the report says that the dumps were thrown just like that when we're out of cars, 379 cars. Please tell me why they were dumped. I don't know if it's possible to resuscitate them. What? Why? What's the problem? Where is the agricultural approach? Basically. Colleagues, there is no plan to rehabilitate a serious business. I call on everyone, and mostly the ruling party and the majority, but still come and show all of Ukraine how this enterprise is going to be resuscitated. Because otherwise you and I are going to have an economic war with you both in the ports and in the railways and in the air, we're going to win and we're going to stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u70	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u71	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the floor to a member of the TSK from the Motherland team of Constantine Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u72	Please, Constantine Bondarev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u73	Good afternoon, dear friends. The Fatherland faction, Constantine Bondarev. Today, Sergey Lechchenka has been mentioned many times. You know, it's not a personal relationship, a bond or anything, not revenge. Today, Sergey Lechchenko is a symbol of the Crossroads: incompetence and corruption. This is said in the conclusions drawn up in the report, presented by the interim commission of inquiry. Incompetence, because 90 percent in the last five years are temporary appointees in the direction of the University. It would seem, at the request of the interim commission of inquiry, that the government has actually released the supervisory board, but what we have seen is that once again the appointment of the same persons is again to oversee corruption and incompetence in Ukrzalznice. I would also like to point out that what is currently in general the level of parliamentary control. Look at this bed, here comes the report of the interim commission of inquiry on Ukrzalznice. Where is the minister of infrastructure present? Where is the presence of the direction of the Crossroad? What have we brought ourselves to, national deputies? Today is a disgrace and a shame for us to be with you. With our hands you and I have reduced Parliament's influence on everything around us. Officials don't come, the Railroad doesn't hear, the corruption as it's deepened in the Crucifixion, is, incompetence in the form of Sergey Lechchenka and others as the symbol of the Crucifixion again and again, they get the crazy wages officially. Today, both the Wave Heat was on the track's balance sheet, it is true that he was arrested for our submission. Friends, that's how we live. But I would like to see this report read and concluded. The report is effective, and it sets out all the facts that need to be done in order to combat corruption and bring an order to Ukrzliznice. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u74	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, then Sergey Jaroslavovich Rudik. And we're going to go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. Head. Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, what is the result of the work of any temporary investigator or special commission of the Supreme Council? What is the conclusion reached by the commission? Of course, it's a summation of the work and the analysis of the work or the discovery of the facts, of the flaws that apply specifically to, let's say, the activities of an enterprise, an organization, some phenomenon. But in addition, it is also the development of recommendations and the appeal to active authorities to avoid making mistakes to correct the situation that has arisen in this case around the activities of the Crossroad. I'm going to say very briefly what's actually going on in the structural units of the railway. This constant discussion about whether to privatise something or leave it as a state segment, or maybe a state-private partnership, needs to be made clear and come to some specific conclusion. Then we can move on without making mistakes. And that's how the following things happen. The city of Corstoń, the Iron Concrete Slips Company. The company, which has been functioning effectively for the past 25 years, has been purchasing government contracts, producing iron bars. What has been done with this company’s previous management of the University? Artificially prepared to be privatized by means of bankruptcy; a changed effective leader who worked for many years. The company’s activity, where 450 workers were bankrupt, was put at risk. This was followed by the appointment of a manager from Kiev, who in a year’s time suffered the last damage to the company in 45 million. What's next? What kind of decision do they make? Wearing two factories, two bankruptcys that they've led to, because it's easier to privatize one company. We have warned of the new leadership of the Crossroad: this is a crime committed by the predecessors, do not do it, do not continue this shameful practice, resume the business, give people a job, fill the budget. And it's going to be an effective job, including Crossroads. So, read carefully, today’s leaders, the conclusion of the commission, and do not make the mistakes made by the predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u76	And the final word on this issue for today is given to National Deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich, Party for the Future. Then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u77	Dear Ukrainians, more than half a year ago I was standing in this rostrum and talking about things that are relevant to one another today. What about the meaning of the work of the TSK, which, in fact, after a violent activity, has all the things that every Ukrainian knows today, who has ever traveled in our rail transport? We don't know about the wheelbarrow problems? We know. We don't know about the wagon problems? We know. We don't know about the overpaid people who have to make sure it's the other way around? We know. What do we say? We say that 232 questions have been sent after the violent activity of the TSC. We're saying that all of this is happening because of systemic problems in management. We find that there are a lot of problems today, corruption schemes. But we do not speak as national deputies of what needs to be done in order to avoid it today or at least minimize all these negative phenomena. We're the whole Ukrainian Parliament. Can't we talk today in the 22nd year about the problems that happened five years ago? We can, maybe we should talk about it. But not just that, but how to get out of this situation. That today we were going to buy 100 new cars, and we only bought 20, with all the money we needed. The fact that today's "intersity" that was supposed to travel at a distance of 5 hours at the planned rate goes to 7 hours. We could say today, what the hell did we buy locomotives for the French without any tender at the total cost of 900 million euros? What, American cars are worse? What, the Japanese cars are worse, I'm sorry, the locomotives are worse? Or maybe they'd get tense and start thinking about their own locomotive production? Our MP group, I don't know, probably the only one not represented in this TSC. Our MP group twice nominated Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich to be able to work with others and find something. On the basis of the official signs, however, the regulatory committee twice refused to participate in our parliamentary group. You know, there's a question that people often ask, by chance? I don't think so. Our MPs will abstain from voting for this so-called report. Let's get down to business, let's get down to business.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 7001) on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification and assessment of the status of the Ukrainian Railway Company, on the investigation of possible inactivity, on the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of the listed enterprise, which has led to a significant deterioration in the technical condition of the enterprise and the main production figures. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:34:53]] For 282 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. We have a statement from two factions, from the Voice faction and the European Solidarity faction, a break with a replacement for a performance. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jaroslav Jurchisin, the Voice Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I can't help but notice what's going on at the very important competitions right now is at the election of the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. The point is that when we actually listen to our President in his speeches, when he finally goes out to society and explains the situation in the country, he's word for word repeating what our partners and international partners are saying, and what he promised society in his election program. It is not only a reflection of the threat from the outside but also a continuation of reforms inside. Now we have a very negative situation where the board of directors of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office can't put two to two together and announce the winner. Why? Probably because the winner is a detective who started a case against Vice President Tatarov's Chief of Staff. The case is successfully hidden for support, namely, by the Attorney General’s Office, but the detective so far who has officially won cannot be appointed despite all promises. It would seem a problem. It would seem that the President's promise to complete the competition by the end of the year is valid. You can always try to explain to international partners: well, you know, I don't influence the commission. But I would like to remind you that the majority of this committee is made up of those elected by the Supreme Council and, unfortunately, these people do not appear on the commission, do not support the actual conclusion of the competition. And here, like Philip from the hemp, is a new problem. The Cabinet of Ministers is holding a closed session on the appointment of a selection commission, namely, the Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau, who is violating five out of six members of the commission, which is not authorized to do. And then hastily the next day, after actually pointing out that he was correcting this error, noting that one of the members of the commission who is currently a member of the selection of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office can become a member of the commission, is confirmed, but only after he has finished his work. What is really going on? All conditions are being made to sue for election of the Head of the National Anticorruption Bureau in the Kyiv District Administrative Court. That's why we're asking. The Minister's office, officially report the procedure, the profile committee's coming your way.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider the issue of the agenda, the next question is Bill 4210. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on improving defence planning procedures (re-reading). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:39:12]] For 237 Decision taken. I invite the deputy head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Marian Volodymyrical Besugul, both from the authors and from the committee. Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u81	Colleagues, the bill is about legal principles, but it's not just about the legal principles governing bureaucracy in the Ministry of Defence and so on, it's about the legal principles of military leadership, defence planning and democratic civil control. It's about the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the Defense Force, not the Ministry of the Armed Forces, not the Ministry of Bureaucracy, not the Ministry of Difficult Decision-making, it's about creating a real defence force: about the Armed Forces, about national resistance, about intelligence, about infrastructure, about the preconditions for military police activity, about our control. Yes, this bill on our democratic civil control, particularly the supervision and control of Parliament. Even such seemingly small things, but extremely important things, when a candidate for a Ukrainian defence minister is to be heard in parliament before his appointment. It's about how decisions are made, it's about clear division of powers of military leadership, it's about principles, it's about abilities. Thus, in preparing for the Committee’s rereading, it is proposed that the basic provisions of the bill be amended and put in a new version. Proposals have been made to amend the 19 laws of Ukraine on strengthening democratic civilian control over the Ukrainian Armed Forces, standardizing the powers, accountability and responsibilities of senior officials of the Ministry of Defence and the Ukrainian Armed Forces, clearly defining defence powers, improving military leadership issues, improving defence planning procedures, taking into account the experience of NATO member states, European Union member states, clarifying the list and content of defence planning documents. And then the National Committee members decided to change the title of the bill, namely: "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine on national security and defence issues to strengthen democratic civilian control over the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to improve unified leadership by the defence forces of the State and to plan in the areas of national security and defence." In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the draft law of Ukraine be adopted in the first reading and adopted on the basis of the draft law on registration number 4210. Colleagues, of course, need improvement. I invite everyone to join in and make their own proposals, because, of course, this is the work of our committee, but it concerns many spheres. This is a complex package that will lead to a clear decision-making process, an understandable ability of the defence forces. And it's very important not only in the situation that has now arisen, it's important for our future, and it's important for our oversight and understanding of what's going on with the defence forces. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhailuk Galini Olegovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u83	Please give the floor to the national deputy of the Venislav Fedor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u84	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposed to you under registration number 4210 aims to improve the functions of democratic civilian control over the Ukrainian Armed Forces, on the one hand. On the other hand, it aims to enhance the ability of our Armed Forces, the defence sector in general. Since the beginning of our cadence with you, our political power has supported President Zelensky's efforts to improve and enhance the ability of our Armed Forces. I want to remind you that you and I have approved a series of important laws that have not been passed throughout the entire period of the war with the Russian Federation. The Ukrainian Defence Plan Act, the Ukrainian Intelligence Act, the Ukrainian Defense Procurement Reform Act. Ukraine's law on improving democratic civil control is a continuation of that logical set of laws that are specifically aimed at strengthening our ability to reflect the aggression of the Russian Federation and to strengthen our Armed Forces in general. As the previous rapporteur has already said, this bill foresees a change in a whole set of laws in order for us to bring them into line with NATO's most advanced standards, and in this regard we are also doing a great deal. I want to inform you that if some 190 legal acts have been implemented in the state of 2019 before NATO standards, there are about 300 of them today. And this bill, it continues the logical work of our Parliament in strengthening Ukraine's defence. That's why the People's Servant political party will support this bill. And I call upon all the Ukrainian forces to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u86	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Guzu Igor Volodimirovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u88	Please, Dmitri Valeriovich Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u89	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will support and vote in favour of the bill. We find these changes to be absolutely logical, which will allow us to really strengthen our Armed Forces of Ukraine. We are constantly stressing the need to make sure that it is the Armed Forces of Ukraine that protect our nation and that they are consistent with NATO standards. So, really, this bill allows you to do that. But some of the norms are surprising to us, and when I heard a thoughtful speech by the author of this legislative initiative, when you called on everyone to join in and make their proposals, I want to remind you, this is a re-reading of the first reading. So once before, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rejected this bill, sent it back first, and that's where you had to collect these proposals. So what surprises us. This is, for example, the creation of a separate military police force. We don't quite understand the logic of how without ensuring the functioning of the military justice system and without disclosing the selection mechanisms and controlling the functioning of the newly created body, it will work. So we don't think it's perfectly logical and appropriate. So that's the first one. And the second. The project, for example, contains a series of norms that relate to the activities of the State Space Agency. So we're sort of bringing the Armed Forces of Ukraine into order. What do we have a space agency for? And so we're ready to join and apply for second reading. Thank you. We vote and strengthen our Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u90	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP to the Lozinski, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u91	Please give Rachmanin to Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u92	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, when they say that war is on the threshold, is not true, because the war on our doorstep has not been coming down for eight years, and, thanking God, there will always be a critical mass of people in this country who will carry out their task without a paphos, without saying too much, clearly and responsibly. And when we talk about mergers, the union in Parliament is not a shared photograph, not a shared dance or a song. Our connection, first of all, requires our connection in the security of the Armed Forces and in general the security and defence sectors as necessary, and first of all the conscious, clear, effective regulatory framework. 4210 is a bill that is proposed for your consideration, of course, necessary, but it has a whole range of things that might not simplify the tasks of our military but make it more difficult. And so I ask you very carefully to consider this bill, to be very careful about it, and in any case, I urge you not to shorten the deadlines for filing rights. Because the worst thing we can do is make it difficult for our military, our Armed Forces, our General Staff and our Ministry of Defense to do the tasks that are currently on it. The Voice faction and the National Security and Defence Committee, all members of this committee, regardless of factional or party affiliation, will support this bill in the first reading in order to make it a substantial improvement in this bill and to make it a real weapon in the hands of our military forces. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u94	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhail Mikolaiovich Papiev, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that this bill is already a re-reading, and when you get two texts that you've received today and you're currently looking at, and when it first entered the Supreme Council Hall, it's two different stories. But living by law is necessary, it is necessary to obey and abide by the law, and the law has to regulate specific criteria, specific approaches, but not to determine the perspective of that anecdotes. Well, for example, this bill introduces new positions. We suggest: we can correct it between the first and the second, let's vote, we won't shorten and we'll fill in the rights. The amendments will be considered on that committee exactly as in other bills, which will make the crowd angry with other national MPs. This bill proposes to create a new body, please note the military police. Is it for a new body, if anyone has a vision, that a new bill, another one, is needed separately to give status to a new body? He'll be what kind of body, law enforcement? What state and everything? But with these changes to the law, we introduce such positions into some of the bills. We're not going to support this bill because in this bill, which is called "making changes to certain laws," new strategies. So let's call this law "the law of introducing new strategies in the defence sphere." Then it will be clear to both citizens and lawyers. Unfortunately, we cannot support this initiative because every initiative must be healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u96	The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov. After that, Zabrodsky’s national deputy. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u97	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. The Trust MP group stresses that the bill that we are considering is extremely important, especially in the current Ukrainian conditions. We would like to point out that, for the first time, the bill defines the key role of military representation in the state's military organization, I mean the Ministry of Defence, and it is clearly stressed that its legal and regulatory provisions on defence issues are mandatory for all officials and state authorities in Ukraine. Of course, the issue of democratic civil control, the reform of Ukraine's defence model according to the principles and norms of NATO member countries are important. At the same time, we need to settle certain issues that our colleagues have already mentioned before. In general, we're going to vote, I mean, the trust MP group, for this bill, and we urge everyone to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u98	Thank you. And the final speech on this issue for today. National MP Mikhailo Zabrodsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, the law is a very difficult thing to do. It was first considered about a year ago, then it was a one - page law, now much larger, but unfortunately the volume does not yet mean quality. It has enough interesting pearls, starting with the fact that the defence forces are subordinated to the political authorities, and ending what they have already talked about today is the parallel existence of the military rule of law service and the established military police. But in all this law, there is one sacred thing: it's a management system of the Armed Forces, where the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces is accountable, subordinated to the Minister, and at the same time the Secretary-General and the Commander-in-Chief are responsible for a variety of things. Imagine an airplane that needs to be refueled in the air, and instead of doing so, the law proposes that passengers be transplanted. But as long as we're in the position of statehood, the faction of the European Solidarity Party will uphold the law, which is what the entire House calls for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving defence planning procedures (project registration number 4210). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:55:47]] For 317 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Show the factions, please. Let's move on, fellows. Next, we have 5847. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of powers between the central executive authority, which ensures the formation of state policy in the area of civil protection, and the central executive authority, which implements public policy in the area of civil protection. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[11:56:36]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill or can we vote? Dear colleagues, it's a delimitation of authority. Is there a need? We just have four minutes left, we still have big ratifications today, friends. We have a denunciation of the SND agreements. Can we vote? Thank you. Dear colleagues, then me. Okay. Please, I give the floor to Deputy Interior Minister Bogdan Evgenovich Drapata. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u101	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! Your point is to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of powers between the central executive authority, which provides for the formation of state policy in the area of civil protection, and the central executive authority, which implements public policy in the area of civil protection (registration number 5847) (submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine). The honourable parliamentarians, as you know, have been part of the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior since 2015. The de facto ministry is a policy-making body, and the State Department of Emergency Situations is the central executive body that implements public policy in the area of civil protection. However, there is still no such function in a number of legislative acts. The main objective of the draft law is to clearly distinguish between the legislative level of the powers of the two branches, which determines that the formation of public policy is carried out by the Ministry of State and its implementation by the DSS. For example, we have repeatedly had difficulties in taking separate legislative initiatives in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine when agreeing on acts with interested parties in connection with the legislative mismatch between the functions of the IMF and the DNSN. The adoption of this bill will significantly improve legal regulation in this area. The relevant amendments are proposed to the Civil Protection Code, the Air Code, the Ukrainian Road Traffic Laws, the Aid for Humanitarian Affairs, the Emergency Legal Regime, and others. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not about the exclusion of DSF from the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but rather about the clear delimitation of powers at the legislative level. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. I invite a co-rapporteur, a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use, Sergio Volodymyrovich Mandiya. But with this report he will speak after a break. Thank you, Your Honor. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. There's a break, 12:30, and I'm asking the national MPs to take their seats. As agreed, I invite you, with a report from the co-rapporteur, a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment, Sergey Volodymyrovich Mandiya. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, you have before you a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of powers between the central executive authority, which ensures the formation of state policy in the area of civil protection, and the central executive authority, which implements public policy in the area of civil protection. In December 2012, the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine and the State Technological Security Inspectorate of Ukraine were reorganized into the State Service of Ukraine in emergency situations. The DNSA is a central body of executive authority, whose activities are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine through the Minister of Interior, which implements public policy in the area of civil protection, protection of populations and territories from emergencies and prevents them from occurring, the elimination of the consequences of emergencies, rescue, firefighting, fire and technological security, emergency services and hydrometeorological activities. The IMF is the main body in the system of central executives that forms policies, including in the areas noted. At this time, Ukraine’s Civil Protection Code and some other laws do not fully correspond to the existing system of central executives. Please support the decision of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use and the outcome of the first reading to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u105	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Misagina Yuri Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u106	Please give the floor to Oleg Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u107	Oleg Volodymyrovich Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, why is this bill necessary? DNSS (State Emergency Service) is an authority that is used or used in our country for the smallest amount of authority among our population. We do not always see the activity of this body because its activities arise in cases of emergency, or fire, the need for rescue measures. But the notion of civil protection, what the DSS is looking after, is a much larger set of measures, these are measures aimed at protecting the population, protecting the environment, the territories, and the state of peace, and in a state of special time. And right now, when we're threatened by Russian aggression, at this very time, the question, the question of mobilization, the issue of radiation protection, the chemical protection, the protection of buildings, all that the DDSN is looking after, is everything needs to be clearly separated from the activities of the IMF, that is to say, the distinction between policy formation and the implementation of politics. Without that, unfortunately, the DSS activity will be insufficient, insufficient, all the more so at this important time. So, I'm asking everyone to support this bill, quickly run it through first and second readings so that the DDSN activities are fully operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u109	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullaiovich. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u110	Honorable colleagues when threatened. When there is a Russian threat, as the previous speaker said, it is necessary to enact security laws that have been initiated by the faction of European Solidarity, to support the army, and unfortunately they are not being considered. What this project is. Is it written without error? There are positive things, but mistakes are too much. First, according to the proposed changes, it is not possible to exclude the environment from civilian protection objects. This increases the risk of a negative impact on it, lowers its level of protection. This exclusion is not based on an explanatory note to the project and cannot be supported by the faction "European Solidarity". Secondly, in an effort to distinguish between powers, circumstances are created between different organs, under which certain relationships are generally subject to any regulation. This is, for example, the uncertainty about the organizational and legal status of emergency centres for the population under the single telephone number 112, which is currently made up of the territorial bodies of the specially authorized central authority on civil protection issues, but these are deleted. Furthermore, as the GNEU points out, as a result of the amendments to article 14 of the Law on the Legal Regime of the Territory which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, it is unclear which authority of the central executive authority will provide fire and technology security in the territory of the estrangement and unconditionally mandatory evictions, since the valid provision under which the relevant powers are imposed on the CEV, which implements the State policy on surveillance and control of the maintenance of fire and technological safety legislation, is excluded, and new ones are not proposed, especially now that we have technological threats. Of course, such legislative gaps pose a direct threat. Government is the subject of the initiative. Parliament should receive more professional bills from the government. In view of this and of our observations, "European solidarity" will be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u111	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u112	Jaroslav Jurchisin, the Voice faction, the Justice Union. Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u113	Please, Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u114	Roman Lozinski, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, with regard to this bill, eco-entivists are the only ones in their position -- this is a very positive principle for the distribution of legislative and executive functions. And I emphasize that we are primarily using the Constitution of Ukraine in our work as national deputies. And the Constitution of Ukraine has a very clear division between legislative and executive functions, including parliamentary functions. And, Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to you, in our Parliament, to the consideration of bill 3195 on reporting ministers at the time of their release, still awaiting consideration of amendments to the committee. It's been about six months since the subcommittee made its decision on the committee, and we haven't considered it yet. I am convinced that this distinction between executive and legislative functions, branches, powers should be clear practice, parliament should do its job. And when we, I'm sure, are about to consider the resignation, the release of the Minister of Education of Scarlett in this Parliament, he has to stand behind this rostrum, he has to answer the questions, he has to report clearly. And it's a disgraceful practice when this House deals with the issue of executive branch of power, ministers, without their presence, has to go back in time. And this bill, of course, is a good example for every parliamentarian, what steps should be taken in the first reading. And this bill of support we can certainly have to work on other meaningful parts. And every parliamentarian here who has 424 in this convocation, I want to remind you that our function is also a control function, a parliamentary control function. And when we speak of the executive branch of authority, our duty is to listen to their reports, our duty to control their authority, and to evaluate them accordingly, including their release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we'll have it now. I see, there will be more. I'm going to ask people to come to the hall for a few more speeches and we're going to the vote. I invite you to the words of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Next, I see Aresonkov will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to one of the effective ministers on the extraordinary situation of the Ukraine of Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u117	Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, our faction supports this bill in its first reading. The only thing we want to point out is that we find it unacceptable to exclude the environment from the term "civil protection" today. We have to be sore today that (unfortunately, it's not the ministry, it's the ministry) The state emergency service had more operational space for making decisions. And in this way, I fully agree with the logic proposed by the government today, to give greater self-sufficiency to the given information. But I think it might be useful to consider the question of rebuilding the central authorities of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. The Prime Minister's position enables more rapid decision-making and alignment with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with the President of Ukraine and with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to communicate with the Deputy Corps. I believe that this bill should only be the beginning, and the second reading of the bill should be amended accordingly. This is precisely the case when both opposition and other factions are united in order to make a decision that will serve to increase operational capabilities for the rescue of our citizens. And I want to thank once again our firemen and rescuers, all those who work in the civil protection system, for their work, for giving themselves up today for their sake.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, we've still got our speech, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Then Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriovich. And let's move on to making a decision. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u120	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, once again the Deputy Group stresses that one of the tasks of the important Supreme Council is to make clear rules, to create conditions for the activity of an effective body of central executives, law enforcement authorities and so on, and that is what the bill is about. Clearly, we need to clearly distinguish those powers that should be between those that form state policy in the area of civil protection, which is the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and those that execute, ensure the implementation of civil protection policy. This is very important today, because in this chaos, sorry, and not only is there a system today in this case of civil protection, you need to set order, you need to give clear authority to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u121	Thank you. I invite you to take the floor before the final report on this question by the Ukrainian national deputy Lubinz Dmitry Valeriovich. And I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, take your seats, because after that, we're going to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u122	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of the legislative initiative. We find it perfectly logical. When I hear colleagues who don't want to support this bill, it doesn't really make sense. We don't have a lot of time when the Cabinet of Ministers itself, when they find out that they don't work and that they don't have a clear mandate between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Service of Ukraine out of emergency situations, they're putting in a bill, they're preparing it themselves, and they're asking the people's deputies to settle it, and we think it's a perfectly right and logical step. Is there also some inaccuracies? Yes, there is, and that's what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is paying attention to. Can we do that, correct it to the second reading? Yes, we can. Therefore, we should vote in the first reading, amend, and vote in general. Thank you. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor, for the design. We will conclude this discussion. Please take your seats, we're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of powers between the central executive authority, which provides for the formation of public policy in the area of civil protection policy, and the central executive authority that implements the State policy in the area of civil protection (project number 5847). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:45:50]] For 287 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill is a bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on citizens' administrative responsibility for customs violations, project number 6051. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[12:46:28]] For 241 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev Danil Aleksandrovitch. I've got the Gethmans. You report by law, and then the national deputy of the Owl. Yes, please, the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, a fairly simple bill is proposed for your consideration. Its adoption was called upon by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 21.07.202, according to which some of the provisions of article 471 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the imposition of liability for movement across the customs borders of goods prohibited from circulation are declared unconstitutional. It's about drugs, it's about, for example, Third Reich objects -- those goods that are not allowed to be moved. Earlier in the Customs Code, there was an irreplaceable confiscation, and the Constitutional Court recognized such a measure of responsibility for inadequate delinquency, so it gave appropriate instructions, gave an appropriate position on changes to the Customs Code. We propose, taking into account the instructions of the Constitutional Court, that we impose a fine and an alternative confiscation for the movement of goods through the customs territory of Ukraine and for the transfer of the currency simply a fine. Thus, by making an appropriate decision, the court may, in the light of the circumstances of the case, make a faithful decision that is appropriate to the circumstances. We also propose that in case of error, if a declarant or a person who has been moved across the customs border of Ukraine and moves the goods concerned makes a mistake, he can make a peace treaty with the customs authorities and pay a fine of 1.3 accordingly. So it's a big enough fine to pay to avoid the customs formalities that are today and that prevent, in fact, from being held accountable. It's a very simple bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u125	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Alexander Georgievich Owl, to report to the co-rapporteur. Please. Owl Alexander Georgievich, where are you? You were. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u126	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Since January of this year, the customs office has no longer the right to confiscate goods that move in violation. I would like to point out such statistics that during 2021, 386 air passengers in Borispol and Giulia violated customs legislation, transporting currency excessively, branded things, telephones, cultural values, narcotics and psychotropic drugs. Considering that by the new year, we had not been able to consider the bill and the date of entry into force of the bill, which it listed, had become obsolete, I ask all colleagues in the room, aware of the likely consequences, to support the proposed bill on the basis and, in general, to propose that the law be effective from the date of its publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill, or can we accept it? We can, right? Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions of the committee: to take the basis and then, in general. Let's do it one at a time and put it on. I propose that the committee adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the administrative responsibility of citizens for breaches of customs rules (project registration number 6051). Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] And I asked, no one told me. Please vote. [[12:51:05]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I can put it all together. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the Administrative Responsibility of Citizens for Violations of Customs Rules (project registration number 6051). Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] In general, right? Do you mind? "European Solidarity" against, I understand. One second. Friends, then I can only cut it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? We have already voted on the basis. Arthur Volodymyrovich, you ask for one minute of motive, I understand? Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u128	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, see, we read carefully the GNEU’s conclusions to this bill. As you've seen, "European solidarity" has supported it as a foundation. I have a question for the profile committee. There's a note, I'd say they need to be corrected. Can you explain how this can be corrected if we now vote, for example, in general? That was my question, why did I ask for one minute? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u129	Please, who's it going to be? The Gethmans, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I will explain why it is necessary for us to be accepted in general. Because today this rule is declared unconstitutional, it does not work at all. The rapporteur from the committee pointed out that, given the change in terms, i.e. terms, the law takes effect from the time it was adopted. And that, with that in mind, we ask that we accept it as a whole. There is nothing to discuss until the second reading, respected colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u131	But this is stated in the committee’s decision, that is, in the light of the committee’s decision? Okay. Is that okay with you? Thank you, colleagues. Anyone else out of motive? No one wants to. Then, dear fellows, let us put the vote to the vote. I put to the vote a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the administrative responsibility of citizens for breaches of customs rules (registration number 6051). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:54:28]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill is Bill No. 4428, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on specific issues of international judicial cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:55:06]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? It is, isn't it? Then I invite the reporter, Deputy Justice Minister Valeria Rudolfovna Kolomiec. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u132	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am introducing a draft Act amending certain legislative acts on specific issues of international cooperation. What I want to point out is that the Ministry of Justice is actually doing particular work in the field of judicial cooperation with foreign states. And in particular, this bill is designed to enable us to defend the rights of both our citizens in foreign jurisdictions and the rights of citizens of other states, businesses in Ukraine. Therefore, we suggest that the procedure for sending messages should be changed so that witnesses can come to the court more quickly and that such assignments can be dealt with more effectively. The order of handing over documents is also a very difficult story. And actually we want to simplify it and make it more effective. Similarly, we propose to reinforce the presumption of the principle of reciprocity when we work with a foreign state or a foreign state. And I want to point out that, really, both in the GNEU and in the Legal Office, there were certain comments and suggestions to this bill that we have our own counter-recommutations on, and so we'll be happy to present them as we prepare for the second reading, and we'll work together with our profile committee and, in particular, with the subcommittee. So, honourable members of the people, I would like to say that, at the committee meeting, a bill on the results of the first reading was adopted as a basis, and so I also ask you to accept it as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u133	Thank you. I invite a fellow member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Paul Vasilovich Pavlish, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u134	Honourable National Deputies, as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 27, 2020, the Committee on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting a bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on specific issues of international judicial cooperation submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is designed to improve the specific provisions of current legislation on international judicial cooperation in civil matters. And the bill, inter alia, proposes to supplement the Master's Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Judiciality with provisions relating to the procedure for sending court appeals, reports, and judicial decisions to persons who have their residence or stay abroad, in order to hand over documents, to obtain evidence or to carry out separate procedural actions with regard to participants who use judicial immunity, to release documents obtained by a court from a competent foreign State for the execution of a court order, to require their legalization or to establish a nostril. According to the law - enforcement body, the adoption of the bill would allow for improvements in some of the laws in force related to international judicial cooperation in civil matters. Proposed changes aimed, inter alia, at ensuring the rights and interests of the parties to the trial. The Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain laws to be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the People's Deputy of Princely Nikola Leonidovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u136	Please pass the word to your colleague Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u137	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u138	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, I'd like to ask the MPs not to worry, because when MPs hear the words "problem" and "international co-operation," a little bit gets scary. It's not about criminal conduct, it's about civil matters, it's about making changes to the Civil Procedural Code and the Master Procedural Code. And in fact, these changes are in the defense of Ukrainian citizens, including those who, under certain living conditions, are forced to deal with foreign courts. What is frightening and what is most disturbing: What if the relevant decision of an international court contradicts the rule of law in Ukraine? And in this regard, I would like to reassure those who are now talking about it, because the rule is that if it is in conflict with the rule of law, Ukraine leaves behind the right not to make such a decision. Similarly, if this type of decision conflicts with Ukraine's international legal obligations, which are provided for in Ukraine's international and legal treaties, it imposes an obligation on the Ministry of Justice to charge such a decision in a defined inter-State order or order as provided for by international legal instruments. And that's very good. In fact, there are a number of things that need to be corrected for the second reading, including the correlation of a series of norms. Because, for example, there are changes to the Civil Procedural Code and they need to be duplicated in the Code of Conduct, but this is not done. At the same time, it seems to me that this is a good basis for us to work on the committee on this bill, and to simplify the lives of our Ukrainians, who will not yet need a proper set of documents, will be able to quickly obtain court documents and thus properly defend their rights in foreign courts. We will support this bill in the first reading, and we hope that on the committee we will be able to work together to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u139	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Maxime Viktorovich Perbynos, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u140	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u141	Please, Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u142	Thank you, colleagues. Our political power, the "Serial of the People" faction, will support this bill in the first reading. At the same time, we draw the attention of the initiators of the bill to the need for it to be processed for second reading, including by taking into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Why are we going to support this bill? Because it not only improves the procedure for international judicial cooperation, which is called upon to make a more effective mechanism for the protection of the interests, rights and interests of both our citizens abroad and vice versa, including this bill establishing such an important rule that is called upon to ensure the legal security of our country, namely that the commission of foreign courts will not be carried out if such a foreign commission is clearly contrary to the legal order of Ukraine. And to this day, it is extremely important. For Ukrainian citizens, I would like to add that the judicial reform implemented by President Vladimir Zelenski, along with our faction in Parliament, is called upon to ensure that justice is swift and just, which will ensure the rights and interests of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u143	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, the "Golos" faction. Then Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. And let's go to the vote. Ah, and Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u144	Of course, the current bill certainly needs to be supported. As a lawyer who has practiced in this area for almost 30 years, the participation of a foreign element in civil affairs has given rise to many delays in such civil and commercial affairs. Sometimes it takes more than six months before the Ukrainian court to deliver a message about such a person’s challenge. Any supply of evidence, any delivery of the message, any message needs to be destilled, and again, the processes become endless. The adoption of Law 4428 makes it more clear how such documents are handed over, whether evidence is obtained, or the conduct of proceedings against persons abroad. And I want to say that these individual positions are aimed at implementing Ukraine's international legal obligations in connection with the conclusion of the Association Agreement with the European Union. I mean, there's a few flaws in the bill. For example, it is stated that legal documents of foreign nations do not produce legal effects in Ukraine if their content is clearly contrary to the public order of Ukraine. At the same time, there is no indication who or how they will be able to determine such incompatibility, and the above rule will be either declarant or, on the contrary, we will meet with the approach when each judge and every person will determine on their own, in a manner that contradicts or does not conflict with the document and this is a decision in public order. We believe that in the second reading, this bill can be revised. I propose to support him by voting for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u145	Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u146	Of course, we cannot oppose the improvement of individual issues of cooperation in the field of international judicial cooperation. But colleagues cannot, in preparing a good bill, ignore a number of nuances that make it ineffective or ineffective? I'd like to pay attention to two things. The simplest of them is the e-mail, the official e-mail of the person who lives abroad, where these court decisions are to come. You know, we have official e-mails in the government authorities, we have lawyers, but we don't have them. We have to write this down because otherwise this norm won't work. That's different. If the Ministry of Justice wants to, it can reverse the failure of a foreign court in Ukraine if it is given by its territorial authorities, but there is a discriminatory norm. And the other participants in the trial, and the physical ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u147	The word is given to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, a group called "Trust". And then we move on to the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, once again stresses the MP's "Trust" that this bill is important because it is about the rights of citizens, the rights of citizens who are in the process of pretrial investigation or in judicial proceedings, for example, in the territory of our country or in foreign jurisdiction, that is, outside the state of Ukraine. It's very important. And I would like to emphasize that, let's say that the rule that governs the acceptance mechanism for the courts of Ukraine to bring cases from the courts of other States or to refer cases to the courts of other States in cases established by law or international agreements is now extremely important and requires urgent settlement. So the Trust MPs will vote in favour of the bill and invite other colleagues to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko, because Motherland hasn't taken the floor yet. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u150	Thank you, Mr. Head. With this bill, it's understandable, but a majority representative here proudly said that their judicial reform is leading to better justice for people. I would like to remind you that your judicial reform has led to two and a half years in the country where there is no Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges and the suspension of competitions for judges, which has led us to have a shortage of judges in the courts of over 30 percent. Your judicial reform has led to three years in the country, two Supreme Courts, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of Ukraine continue to exist, and you cannot comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 20 years ago. I want to remind you that your judicial reform has led to the fact that people don't only get fair and fair justice in reasonable terms, but instead, in certain areas, they don't have access to justice. That's why it's the Day of Joining.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on specific issues of international judicial cooperation (registration number 4428). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:09:51]] For 314 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, look, I have an offer. The next bill is 4664, there's a decision to send to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Let's vote -- and let's let the committee prepare for the re-first reading. The committee's decision is to re-read. Vote. Dear colleagues, Bill 4664. Show me your previous ballots on the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues, I am not obliged to advertise. You've seen it, it is. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we're moving on. 4664, draft law on the resolution of issues of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine. I'm proposing that we send it to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of this bill. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:11:13]] For 328 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on. Show the factions, please. Let's move on, next one. Dear colleagues, we still have two questions about denunciations. We agreed last time that we would vote and make decisions. Do I get it right? This deal, the denunciations, we agreed that we didn't discuss it? Okay. Let's move on to question 0065. This is a draft law on Ukraine's withdrawal from the Decisions on the Establishment and Activity of the Anti-Terrorism Centre of the Commonwealth of Independent States (Project Registration No. 0065). Short-term procedure, please. Dear colleagues, there is no understanding. I'll bet you I'll take a brief look at this. [[13:12:38]] For 268. Decision taken. Once again, I remind you, last time we made a deal, this time you're disposing of your arrangements. Okay. I'd like to have a word with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can? Here's "European Solidarity." [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you insisting? That's what I'm talking about. I would like to invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Head of the Security Service, Andruszczennik Sergija Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Russian Federation's armed aggression began with unannounced and covert incursions into Ukraine by military forces and other military forces of the Russian Federation, as well as by organizing and supporting terrorist activities. The criminal acts of the Russian Federation and the establishment and direct management of illegal weapons formations, armed gangs and mercenary groups are a gross violation of the principles of international relations, undermine the foundations of law and security in the world, and result in the death of Ukrainian military and civilian persons. In view of the stated decision of the Council of National Security and Defence of 2 May 2018 on the cessation of Ukraine's activities of the separate international agreements concluded within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States, it is appropriate to suspend Ukraine's participation in the activities of the Anti-Terrorism Centre of SND States, by way of the withdrawal of our State from the decision to establish the Counter-Terrorism Centre of the Commonwealth of Independent States. Decision on the Counter-Terrorism Centre of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the decision to amend and supplement the position of the Counter-Terrorism Centre of the Commonwealth of Independent States. Our State's participation in these actions and membership in the ATC of the SND is contrary to the concept of combating terrorism in Ukraine, approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on March 5, 2019. In particular, I report that the location of the ATC SND is in Moscow, so even the formal legal participation of Ukraine does not correspond to the fundamental national interests of Ukraine, as approved by article 3 of the Ukrainian National Security Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u153	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the vice president of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Marina Olegovna Bardina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u154	Good afternoon, colleagues! First of all, I'd like to welcome all of us to the Joining Day. It seems to me that this is another wonderful reason for us to really unite, to maintain our unity, and to act politically correctly, in fact, as citizens of our country want us to do. I want to thank the people who came out to the main square of their cities today, the villages, and the Ukrainian flag. This is the next signal of our unity and the next signal that nothing can dissipate the Ukrainian friendly people. I want to thank the journalists because, in your responsibility today, our information front is what the Ukrainians use, what happens to their eyes and ears. I want to thank you first, and perhaps most important, our military, today is the right day to support their heroic spirit. With regard to the issue that we are considering, this is a de facto extension of Ukraine's exit from a series of SND agreements. We know that Ukraine has ceased its cooperation, as Georgia has done in its time, in fact, in connection with the armed conflict and aggression of the Russian Federation. Today, our country is on a European agenda, today we want Euro-Atlantic integration, membership in alliances such as the EU and NATO. And this is a first choice for the Ukrainian people, because today the strong support of Ukrainians in integrating our country into such alliances and alliances. So I'm asking you to support this decision, it's on one hand technical, and on the other hand it's important, because we can't work with an aggressor in one union to prevent terrorist activity when we see such an aggressor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, come in. Please, is there a need for discussion? Sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Fed of Sofia Romanovna, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, it is good that the time has finally come for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote for things that should have been done long ago. In fact, we are now supporting this draft law on Ukraine's exit from decisions on the creation and operation of the SND Anti-Terrorism Centre. But when we vote for this, we also have to realize that it's not just an exit from a certain alliance with an aggressor that an aggressor uses any contractual base to use any alliance to leave individual countries in orbit for the purpose of spreading Soviet Moscow narratives, thereby carrying out information attacks and undermining the independence and sovereignty of individual states. So it's a good thing that Ukraine is moving away from this right now. In fact, there are many issues, such as cooperation with those countries that still belong to the same SNI that need to be resolved. And since we are with us a representative of the Ukrainian Security Service, I would also like to address the issue of security cooperation and communication in this context, particularly with the Republic of Belarus, because the Belarusian-Ukrainian border also has Moscow troops that tend to invade Ukraine. Any type of secure communication with the dictatorial state can also threaten Ukraine's territorial integrity, as well as the security of Belarusian citizens seeking political asylum in the Ukrainian state. So we have this set of issues to consider together, not separate solutions. And last but not least, I would like to welcome everyone to the 104th anniversary of the Cuban Republic, which in 1918 expressed its desire to join Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u157	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u159	Samantha Anatoly Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, you know, first of all, it's very sad and sad that for the eighth year of war such things are still unfinished and Parliament is considering the denunciation of such agreements, treaties. And in principle, we need to discuss how we're going to get out of the anti-terrorist centre of SND States, when the terrorists in this organization are the Russian Federation, and the children's organization of such a SND, in principle, is the ODCB. Let me remind you that our colleagues have the brains to invite the U.S.O.B. to the Ukraine field. And I'd like to attract, I'd like to draw the attention of, in particular, the prosecution's offices to make statements by fellow MPs with similar statements. Moreover, I hope that Parliament will not fail the denunciation one more time today, and we will finally put an end to such issues. What's more, I remind you that we have an expanded North Atlantic Alliance Program, and I'm surprised, in principle, as we usually use two opposite, completely anti-Atlantic positions in Ukraine, and this, in principle, requires an explanation or discussion and another vote on this issue. It's definitely "for." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u161	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u162	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u163	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, so it has happened that we are now in a hurry to get out of all our agreements within the SND, motivated by what Russia is there. But not only Russia, there are our partners, which we call strategic, including Moldova. And is that the most pressing issue today? I want to draw your attention to the fact that exports to Russia increased by 21 percent last year, by 22 percent, and by 31 percent, imports from Russia increased. In the conditions of tension that are now between our countries, I think it's very inappropriate to react properly, and until we can finally identify ourselves in our relations with our neighbours, such decisions are premature. Today's crisis will pass, and the issue of countering terrorism, it will remain, and then what are we going to do -- new agreements to conclude? Why ruin what may be difficult to do now, but what can help us in the future? Therefore, I urge you to abstain, thus demonstrating that a proper political environment does not dominate our decisions. And we will not provoke another emotion under these extremely difficult conditions and perhaps avoid any.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Also, please, National Deputy Yaremenko. Then the national MP of the Restless. Yaremenko first, and then the rest of the rest of the world. And we're going to the vote. Bogdan Vasilovich Jaremenko. Then Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira. Please. And the Lubenets, right? Aresonkov. All right, Aresonkov. Please, Yaremenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u166	Bogdan Yaremenko, 215 constituency, Kiev, Servant of the People. Dear colleagues, it is even a little awkward to convince the entire hall of intelligent people in the obvious. None of you would think of making a meat - class agreement with a cannibal; you will not eat all the kinds of meat that a cannibal eats. And working with Russia in the fight against terrorism or the SND is not possible because Russia is the source of terrorism. Meanwhile, Ukrainian intelligence is well aware that in the event of cross-border terrorist threats, they will interact with the neighbouring state to localize these threats. At the same time, however, the existence of this agreement creates certain obligations for the Ukrainian security forces, and for foreign enemy services certain opportunities to approach our nation and demand action. It is clear, then, that in times of war it is our political and civil obligation to help the domestic security forces to remove their burdensome obligations to the enemy states. We have to vote and not think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u167	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Grigory Mikhailovich Nemiru, the faction of the Fatherland. After that, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. And then we go to the vote. And the Lubenets. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill on the termination of agreements within the SND on the Anti-Terrorism Centre. But I would like to call everyone to a very substantive consideration of any matter, including this. Is it known to fellow national deputies that Ukraine is now a party to more than 230 SND treaties? It is a participant in more than 230 SND agreements. Is it known to fellow members of the national parliament that the withdrawal from about 30 agreements under the SND by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not considered to be worthwhile? This is mainly true of agreements that deal with social issues. But I want to pay attention to the lack of systematic work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the ninth year of war is already coming, we have a bunch of these contracts left, no clarity to go out of, no exit. And colleagues who raise the question that perhaps not all of them need a definite exit are the way to renegotiate bilateral agreements. If we get out of collective agreements under the SND, and Ukraine has never been a member of the SND, even though it was the founder of the SND, we need to conclude bilateral agreements. So by supporting this bill, I urge the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to speed up their work and give Parliament a sense of the picture for today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u169	The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich. After that, Lubinetz Dmitry Valeriyovich. And then we go to the vote. Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u170	Mr. Head, thank you. The "Trust" MP will support this bill because it is important. What does not work today clearly needs to be settled. But I would like to draw your attention to the following, Mr. Head. Today, we still have a number of important ratifications in order of the day that relate to activities with international financial institutions, issues relating to the territories of Lugansk, Donetské region. Perhaps we should hold a brief consultation with faction leaders right now, determine which ratification issues can be voted on without discussion. Because otherwise, if there's another procedure after every bill right now, we're going to postpone the adoption of extremely important ratifications. So I think we can do that, and it'll make the job better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Valeriovich Lubinets, "For the Future" faction. While Dmitri Valeriovich is on his way. We've already had this conversation, and some ratifications have agreed to go the same way. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u172	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of this bill, which is absolutely logical. Colleagues, the eighth year we're fighting the Russian Federation. From the beginning, I want to remind you all that this was an anti-terror operation, and at the same time we're working with the organ that's at the SND that's in Moscow. In fact, it looks like a frost. And it's very true that Mrs. Solomia's national deputy, who said that we're in war for the eighth year, and we can't make a decision about denouncing certain contracts. Colleagues, let's vote. And I'd like to advise the Ukrainian Security Service if there are any other similar agreements, so let's give them a package to the Supreme Council, and we'll vote for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please take your seats. I propose the adoption of a draft law on Ukraine's exit from the Decision on the Establishment and Activity of the Counter-Terrorism Centre of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States (project registration number 0065). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:31:09]] For 309 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows! Show the factions, please. The next question is 0101. This is a draft law on the withdrawal of some of the international treaties of Ukraine that have been concluded within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States. From the procedure? Please, Hero out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to address the honourable presiding officer who is following the Rules, for which our faction is extremely grateful. And to stress that when the position of the committee is presented, the position of the committee should be presented, not the propaganda sentence. Thank you very much. And we fully share the concern of the people's deputies that all these ratifications should be considered urgently. Let me remind you that it is you, your honourable colleagues, who voted in seven weeks of the holiday, and that's why we have to move so slowly right now. Our faction will insist on discussing all ratifications and show voting to society. We see that there are no monotonous numbers, 218 votes even on ratifications against the aggressor country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u175	In response to what you say, I always try to follow the Rules. And with regard to the Rules, I confirm that we should speak on behalf of the committee, but this will now apply to all factions and groups, or I'll just turn off the microphone. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next one is 0101. This is a draft law on the withdrawal of some of the international treaties of Ukraine that have been concluded within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Short-term procedure, what kind of discussion? Vote first. Oh, no talking. Short cut. [[13:33:09]] For 256 Dear colleagues, listen to what I'm saying. We voted on the procedure. I understand this is a discussion. So I would like to invite you to the floor of Deputy Finance Minister Draganchuk Yuri Olegovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u176	Honourable national MPs, given the armed aggression of the Russian Federation and the annexation of part of the territory of Ukraine, are irrelevant and irrelevant in such international treaties: the Treaty on the Rules of Origin for the Origin of Goods of Developing Countries when granting tariff preferences under the General System of Preferences, as well as the Protocol on Change and Supplements to the Rules on the Origin of Goods of Developing Countries when granting tariff preferences within the General System of Preferences. I would like to report that the termination of the agreements will not affect the interests of Ukrainian producers and exports, because Ukraine's current legislation does not provide tariff preferences within the framework of the Generalized System of Preferences for Developing Countries. Therefore, the operation of the agreement and protocol for Ukraine should be terminated. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u177	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the vice president of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Marina Olegovna Bardina. Please, just the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u178	Colleagues, I am very supportive of always speaking under the Rules. Because our Parliament is known to abuse the Rules during speeches and speak on political issues rather than to speak on the content of the matter. From the committee, I'm going to say that we've considered this issue on the committee, we've decided to recommend it to Parliament. The purpose of this decision is to get Ukraine out of the Treaty on the Rules of Origin for Developing Countries when tariff preferences are granted under the General System of Preferences and the Protocol on Change and Supplements to these Rules. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Yes. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Calchenk Sergey Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u180	Please give the floor to the national deputy Jaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u181	Bogdan Vasilovich Jaremenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u182	Bogdan Yaremenko, 215 constituency, Servant of the People. I'm being criticized, I said, you should always think. Colleagues, we remember one Ukrainian president thinking for a long time whether to hug Putin or shake hands with him, thinking for a long time whether he was a business partner with the Russian Federation, or whether he was the president of a warring country. We remember how the previous authorities for four years decided what to do with the Commonwealth of Independent States, whether to continue their cooperation, or to leave, as they had thought for four years, whether to leave the Treaty of Friendship with the Russian Federation. Colleagues, if there are questions that you are not prepared to decide at the call of the heart as Ukrainians, to think of you too late, you do not need to be Ukrainian politicians. As for the agreement that we are considering. Colleagues, glory to God, the decision to withdraw from the SND is made, but international law provides that a withdrawal from the organization does not provide for an automatic withdrawal from all agreements. The Ukrainian government, and it needs to thank him, planally and systematically review hundreds of treaties to understand which of them are valuable to Ukrainian citizens who have no value and who are harmful, like the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Terrorism. The deal that we have to come out of now doesn't make any sense, because the legal and political realities have changed. We have an agreement with the European Union, Ukraine has become a member of the World Trade Organization. So the SND agreements on the definition and origin of goods don't make sense, we have to get out of them, we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u183	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimenko Yulia Leonidini, the "Golos" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u185	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u186	Roman Lozinski, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, we have a great deal of denunciation to do, and we have some historical past and past experiences. And our designated vector in the West is clear on economic issues, international treaties, and in matters of state symbols, rewards, because we also have a certain historical gravity, and on many other issues. Of course, the team and I will support the denunciation. We are convinced that if we have our choice and path to the West, we should reflect it in concrete actions, steps, including economic denunciations. But also, colleagues, I want to draw your attention to the struggle for other meanings, meanings, perhaps not of an economic nature, but a very demonstration for every Ukrainian citizen. Today, the heroes of Ukraine remain tens of traitors, separatists, who have disgracefully betrayed their state. One of them is Alexander Batalin, who, after the annexation, received a medal for the protection of Crimea and joined the "One Russia" party, still the Hero of Ukraine. Boris Dach, who recently died as a nardepam, voted in a referendum in Crimea and called for a merger with the Russian Federation, as did the Ukrainian Hero until his death. Alexander Onedarenko, has been pummeling from the party of Pussylin to the Fae Parliament of the DNR. This list can be continued. Why am I telling you this? If we vote on economic issues for denunciation, if we break our ties to the past, our ties to the east, if we don't consider it, and fortunately we've already moved away from the Customs Union and other Eastern directions, we have to move on to building our identity in matters of national memory, in matters of symbols, in matters of rewards, particularly in matters of who is the hero of Ukraine and who is not. Shamelessly, separatists are still traitors. And my Bill 6163.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u187	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u188	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, may I give the floor to the honourable MP, Mr. Scorch Mikola Leonidovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u189	Spark, please, Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, it's quite funny and interesting to see how today the Supreme Council, by a constitutional majority in a ura-patriotic mountain, seems to have won the war that the Western media declared, with all due respect for them, is actually destroying Ukraine's economy by a constitutional majority of votes. Dear colleagues, if you're giving up the market for SND countries, you have to understand what you're replacing these markets with markets. What does the European Union offer us today in exchange? How many markets can we enjoy in the East, China, and so forth? You have to understand that any state has to come out of its own interests, state interests, not the patriotic slogans that someone has invented. Yesterday, if anyone saw it, Lloyd’s insurance association revealed our territorial waters as waters of war, terrorism, and piracy. Do you know what that means? Do you understand what that means? This means that all of our imports, which go by sea, will become much more expensive. Do you realize how much it's going to cost to have vessels enter our territorial waters? We have problems with you now, not because of a fairy war that normal people realize will not be, but because the announcements about this war are actually ruining our economy. We've already lost engine building and we're losing the last aspect of our economy. Surrender and realize that the main thing is Ukraine's national interests, not always singing an anthem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u191	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u192	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. But some ladies here don't know we've had a war for eight years! Gentlemen, where are you from? You don't know we're having a war? Which ribs did you cross here for? What do you say you tell us there's no war? Why do we have a sea of war? Is it that the British insurers blame or Putin, who has gathered from the Pacific, North, Baltic ships to our borders, are conducting so-called trainings, blocking our way to the Ukrainian ports? Do you still have the nerve to come out and say something here? Get out of this SND! We understand that the Commonwealth of Independent States is a partnership where no one depends on States, but only one depends on Putin. And we know that, and there's nothing to do, and we have to make that decision. It is good to do so on the Day of Atonement, for our connection with the Western world, not with Putin’s world, is his companionship, which he wants to transform into the Soviet Union, which he so commemorates for a century. And you should be ashamed that on such a day you even forgot that there was a war going on in Ukraine. It's just a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u193	The word is given to the national deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich. After that, the national deputy Bakunets Pavel Andriyovich. And then we go to the vote for this bill. Please, Sergey Jaroslavovich Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, we don't have 230 today, but 236 or 239 agreements operate within the SND. Think about the 22nd year, what happens after we denounce the agreement within the SND? We have to sign bilateral agreements with each of the countries that are part of this SND, which would have long been the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Why have only two contracts been cancelled? And these are about tariffs, about tariff benefits under the SND. Because it has not become the norm of Ukrainian legislation to date, and to this day we are not giving this opportunity to Ukrainian agrarians, to Ukrainian metal processors, to Ukrainian glass businessmen, to all the things that are now being hit hard by the rise in gas prices and would have. So, society, let's do what we should have done a long time ago: cancel our collaboration with the SND, but we sign bilaterally.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u195	The word is given to Bakuña Paul Andriyovich, a group called "Trust". Then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u196	Paul Bakunec, MP group "Trust", Lviv. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people, dear guests, colleagues from the Republic of Poland! First of all, welcome all of us to this Joining Day. Yeah, that's a nice initiative. Yes, it is certainly good that a flag was raised in the communities today, and an anthem was sung. We clearly support the ratification of the draft laws on the exit of Ukraine from all the agreements within the SND, we are no longer looking to the East for cooperation, we need to look to the West, to our lawyer in the European Union, to our close neighbor in Poland, and to those countries, we need to increase our cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please. With motive? Please, for the reasons of Sergey Ivanovich. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, please turn on. I know the delegation. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u198	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I would like to remind you that Mr. Stefanchuk has rightly pointed out that the title of the bill does not contain the word "some." I'll remind you how this bill is drafted: "To get out of some of Ukraine's international treaties." I would like the honourable chairman once again to draw the attention of the legislators that the word "some" cannot be present in the name, and it should be very simple: "of all the international agreements concluded within the Commonwealth of Independent States." The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should quickly develop all necessary bilateral agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose the adoption of a draft law on the withdrawal of some of the international agreements of Ukraine concluded within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States (project No. 0101). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:47:38]] For 309 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a delegation of the Republic of Poland to the Supreme Council, headed by Vice Marshal Seima Richard Terletsky. Our countries are traditionally united. [[Applause]] Hello. Dear colleagues, our countries have traditionally united the desire for mutual understanding and solidarity, and now, in the face of new threats and challenges, it is more important for us than ever to have a friendly Poland to maintain the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Let us once again support our colleagues and express our sincere gratitude to the noble Mr. Vice Marshal, the honourable deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Poland for their participation in today's session. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we still have ratifications. Dear colleagues, maybe we should vote on these. 0136, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2023 the period of validity of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from 28 July 2014. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please. [[13:49:41]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, if I may ask you, we need to keep the Ukrainian people's deputies in the hall. Please, Your Honor. Vadim! Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite the rapporteur, Japar's First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Emine Ayyarov. Oh, she's gone. I invite the co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union Klimpus-Cincadze Ivana Orestovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u200	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, it is a pity, of course, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been able to report this bill. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the EU has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the continuation by 1 August 2023 of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigations since 28 July 2014, made by the President of Ukraine and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In accordance with this Memorandum of Understanding, you and I have to understand that the authority to investigate the causes and consequences of the aviation disaster that took place in Ukraine on 17 July 2014 has been transferred by Ukraine to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Seven years after Donbas was hit by a passenger plane called Malaysian Airlines, and in June of this year, a new phase of criminal proceedings against the perpetrators of the crime was launched last year. The MN17 case, in fact. Very funny, colleagues, I see. It is noteworthy that the conclusions of the joint international investigation team clearly indicate Russia’s direct involvement and involvement in the plane crash. The group's experts point out that a civilian plane in the sky over Donbas on July 17th, 14th, was hit by a 9M38 military rocket, released from the Bouk airship complex, and the ZRC was in territory controlled by the pro-Russian mercenaries. Colleagues, according to the explanatory note, do not need any additional funds for. and all funding will take place within the limits of the budget. We ask the committee to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, can I put her to the vote? They all came out as if they were. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to accept the project as a whole. But they came out of the committee. Okay, two in, two in. Bardina, please, the "Serial of the People" faction. Marina Olegnowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u202	Colleagues, please support and proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u203	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u204	Please give me your word, Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u205	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, obviously we will support this ratification, and it is obvious that this is the first crime for which I am convinced that we, as Ukraine, will be able to bring the criminal Putin to justice in The Hague. And obviously our most important weapon today is the truth. That means calling criminals criminals. And that means calling the aggressor country an aggressor. This means not making optical statements that lead to the misunderstanding of the entire world, which means the leader of Ukraine, who means the President of Ukraine, but to clearly formulate our tasks, to unify, not around some primordial hipic days, but to unite around the country, around the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I am sorry that today, colleagues, we have not dedicated our sessions with you to allocate additional funds to our Armed Forces of Ukraine. I'm sorry that we're putting aside the issues that require an urgent response from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sorry we didn't make a decision today to go straight to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to put on the sanctions list all those parliamentarians of the Russian Duma who, yesterday, dared to vote in favour of calling Putin on the recognition of these pseudo-republiks, namely, our occupied territories. Think about it and work with the right priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u207	Please, Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u208	Colleagues, please support and proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u209	Thank you. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u210	Please pass the word to Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u211	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, there are few weapons in the war. An objective investigation and an unbiased trial against an aggressor state is also a weapon. Let's vote for another shipment of weapons against the aggressor state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u213	Thank you. Please take another Burmich, and then we'll go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. Participant Burmich, OCJ.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, terrorism is terrorism, of course, and only the court can tell who did it. Why do so many years go by and no one can determine who is but one, or the other? I think it would be right if we, or together with the same Netherlands, other countries that have suffered, went together to the United States to eventually release those satellite images, the satellites that they have, so that we can put a stop to this and really call those who are responsible for this terrible catastrophe. And I think that would be the right thing to do, and to help that court that's not even sure how many years it's going to take. It is necessary to put a dot in this, so I would like to go with other countries to the United States and let them really provide evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u215	Krulko Ivanovich. And this is the final talk. And then we go to the vote. Please take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u216	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. All crimes, especially crimes against peace, will be answered. We need to ratify this agreement, which opens the way for further judicial review in connection with Russian aggression and MH17. And I am convinced that as the regime that organized MN17’s collapse committed other military crimes in Ukraine, it will be necessary to take responsibility in international courts. And each dictator must remember that the crimes of Nazism were recognized by the courts, and all criminals were criminally liable for hanging. The same will be true of those criminals who today commit crimes against Ukraine, against our citizens, against territorial integrity, and against an independent state. Sooner or later, there will be a criminal response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u217	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I'm continuing my time so that we can make a decision on this issue. And we also agreed on two of the following: no discussion. And we'll give you our word, if you don't mind, Deputy Marshal Seima Richard Terletsky. Is there any objection? And that's where we end up. Therefore, fellow Members, I now propose to the Committee the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2023 the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Investigation Mission from 28 July 2014 (project registration number 0136). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:59:42]] For – 304 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's have a word with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next one is a quick vote. Two questions will be put to the vote without discussion. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the avoidance of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes (registration No. 0124). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:00:38]] For – 304 Decision taken. And one more thing. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement "Eastern Ukraine: Reunification, Reconstruction and Reconstruction (Project 3B)" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (project registration number 0134). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:01:15]] For – 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we started our day with the words of our friends. Let us conclude today’s plenary session with the words of our friends. And I invite you to the word of Deputy Marshal Seima Richard Terletsky. Please welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, friends! We came today to show our solidarity with Ukraine and to say clearly to you and all of Europe that a free sovereign independent of Russia, Ukraine, is a state of Poland and all of Europe. We chose this day to come to you today because allied intelligence informed us that Russian aggression would take place today or at night, a Russian attack. So we decided to come to you on this day to show that we are with you. A week ago, the Polish Seim and the Polish Senate adopted resolutions calling on all international organisations, particularly the European Union, NATO, to strongly oppose Soviet efforts towards Ukraine. And we will always do that -- we will always call on Europe and the world to solidarity with Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-16-m0.u219	We express our sincere gratitude to the distinguished Mr. Vice Marshal, the honourable deputies of the Polish Seima, for participating in today's plenary session. In this plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you, colleagues.
