ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I remind everyone that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold it until the registration is complete. People's deputies please register. [[10:08:42]] There are 238 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the International Holocaust Memorial Day, proclaimed by the UN General Assembly on November 1, 2005. The General Assembly Resolution states that the Holocaust, which has led to the destruction of one third of Jews and countless members of other nationalities, will always serve as a warning to all people about the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism, and prejudice. Let us remember this terrible lesson in history and not allow such tragic events to happen again. Please honor the memory of the Holocaust victims by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear people's deputies, today we have a noun, today is the birthday of our colleague of the national deputy of Ukraine Volodymyr Vasilovich Zakharchenka, "Serve of the People". Let us welcome him, his strong health, and his victorious work for the benefit of Ukraine, and the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, before we go to the agenda, I have two statements from different political factions and groups with a break and a replacement for the performance. First statement from the "Serve of the People" faction and the "For the Future" group. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Dmitry Davidovich. Please, Dmitri Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u2	Dmitry Kisilevski, Dnipro. Last night’s tragic event occurred: At Dniper in the southernmost part of the National Guard, a military officer shot five of his fellow servants and injured five others. He's already been detained by the police. I express my heartfelt sympathy to the loved ones and relatives of the dead. This is a terrible tragedy for Dniper, a terrible tragedy for our entire country. I urge the law enforcement authorities to find out what happened there, not in Ukraine. And I ask you to honor the memory of the dead by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u3	Thank you. It's a really big tragedy. Dear colleagues, there's another statement with a break in exchange for a performance from the Fatherland faction and the Trust Group. I invite you to speak to Ukrainian national deputy Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! I would like to keep quiet two days ago about the small entrepreneurs who came to the Supreme Council to find justice. I want to remind those who don't know or who didn't watch the video what happened. People came from all over Ukraine -- micro-entrepreneurs, FOPs, on their shoulders, by the way, all the developed countries, it's the middle class, it's the people who make their hard money to feed their families. By the efforts of the profile committee and the heads of this profile committee, as well as all those who voted for it, these people are deprived of the right to earn their pennies, in the middle of the class, a devastating blow. But when they came and tried to meet the deputies they had chosen against them, as in the days of Yanukovich, Zacharychenka, who was then head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, they carried out executions on these people. I just want you to stop talking right now and listen to what this is all about. Two women had their hands broken, the police, 74 people, according to the entrepreneur's estimate, were thrown into car accidents, arrested, and then brutally beaten. There are videos of people being kicked in the head to pull them by the legs and by the hands. So the police, the police of the acting president and the "ministers of the people" are dealing with the middle class today, with citizens who have not just come here to find justice, but who have come because they believe in you and believe in the President. And their beatings are as brutal as they were in Yanukovich’s day, saying that nothing has changed, just as in authoritarian countries, those protests by people who are fighting for freedom and for their lives are what you have allowed. And the committee leader who conducted these terrorist actions through anti-entrepreneurs laws for many years has been a helper to the person under sanctions today, and to Ukraine, and to the United States, the person who works in the aggressor country. This person today makes laws for our middle class to destroy Ukraine. We demand the release of all people, the closure of criminal cases that have been committed against them, and the adoption of a law that gives them the right to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let us move on to discussion and consideration of issues and decision-making. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you, so let us move on to their consideration. Dear colleagues, your consideration is proposed by a draft decision on the dismissal of Seninick from the post of Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Well, look, Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm really asking you out of procedure, not as always. Alexander Sergiyovich, please, Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, I don't see the Head here yet, the Head of the State Property Fund. In order for us to vote on his release, we demand a report, we demand a report on what happened to state-owned enterprises, we demand a report on that cabal privatization, that a large number of businesses go bankrupt. As long as we don't hear this report, I don't think we have the moral right to listen and to enter into this decision at all. Mr. Sennichenko, we have to ask him a question, and only then will we be able to vote and address this issue. Thank you. And please take into account the position of the Opposition Platform for Life faction on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u7	Thank you. Look, I don't have accurate information, but as far as I know, he's in a hospital with a disease. But I don't have any more accurate information. One piece of information that he is now. He said he applied to be released before New Year's Eve. Please, who else? I see, Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u8	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I agree with my colleagues. More than that, a person in a hospital is unlikely to be released today. Plus, a statement was made in November of the month. And I think that a week or two this question can then wait for us to wait for Mr. Sennichenko to hear what was done and what was not done, what was happening with the privatisation of Bilšík, other enterprises. And then, on the basis of his information, a balanced decision was made regarding the reforms that had been made and whether it was worth resigning. Here I agree with my colleagues, I hope that we will remove this issue from the agenda today and transferred it when a person recovers and can be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council has appointed the Supreme Council to do so. And he was in the hall, the Supreme Council should take him down -- he should also be in the hall. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u9	Thank you. I'll respond immediately, with your permission. I said I don't have accurate information right now, but from the previous information I had, he's in the hospital. This is the first time. Second, a person is released at his own request. He was invited. If he did not come, it is not an obstacle to the decision. Please, Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, the whole of Ukraine knows how the negative faction of Fatherland feels about the sale of strategic Ukrainian property, and we didn't vote in favour of the laws that allowed such privatization. But at the same time, we're now looking at the staffing issue of liberation. Let us keep in mind that if a person is released from office while he is in the hospital, and this information seems to be, this is a direct basis for the prosecution of the relevant decision and the reinstatement of the job and the payment of the forced leave of all wages. So I don't think that if there's a person and there's more in the hospital, that's a question you can't consider, because that's a basis for judicial review and renewal at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u11	The basis for this liberation is the personal statement made by the Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, not the other grounds provided for in the law. Dear colleagues, besides that, we've already come to this point, so. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support. [[10:19:53]] For-170. Decision taken. I invite the head of the committee of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Olesia Vasilovich, to report. Please, Alexy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u12	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Development Committee, at its meeting on December 1, 2021, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyovich, reviewed the statement made by the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Sennick Dmitry Vladimirovich, on his own request to be released from office. According to the outcome of the review, following the provision of article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, the Ukrainian National Deputies decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the release of Sennik Dmitry Volodymirovich from his post as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Artem Blackmore.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u15	Please, Artem Blackmaorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u16	Honorable National Deputies and Honorable Colleagues! You know, I've been waiting a long time for this moment, because I can't say anything bad or anything positive about this man, about Mr. Sunflower. I just want to say that this is an action that we must now decide whether to release him or leave him in office, the agrarian committee decided in September and handed down its sentence. At that time, the agrarian committee voted in favour of Mr. Sonicenka's mistrust, because there were so many subcommittees on economic and financial development, about those agrarian enterprises that moved into the holding fund and now just day after day, their checkers were changing. We have in my district, in the district of my colleague Pasaczky, this is Stepové, the Vineyard, where the managers of these businesses simply robbed, exported crops and people left without pay. Therefore, honourable national deputies, you must decide. But I want you to understand that it is only on our shoulders that the Constitution grants the right to control executive power. So I ask you to make a judgmental judgment and vote. It's all up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u17	Please, Ustinova Alexander Yuriyevna, the Voice faction. Clemensa Julia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u18	Klimenko. Dear colleagues, since we do not have the Head of the Holding Foundation present today and, in principle, it is not acceptable to report to the executive authorities before the Supreme Council, we have not seen any reports of previous ministers who have been released, no plans of ministers who have come. We have one here, you know, like a doorway: come on, let's go. And in fact, no one's talking about the results. Since Mr. Sennick is gone, let's talk about the results ourselves. The results, to put it mildly, are sad. Why? Because in 2021 there were planned profits, government revenues from privatization, which were supposed to be 12 billion. We got as much as 2 billion from them. So that's 20 percent of the projected, projected income. Dear colleagues, if people were working in the private sector, they would have long had no jobs there, and in the public sector we continue to work and so do people, and they continue to work and so do officials. The same thing in the 20th year is planned for 2.2 billion -- it's going to get 0.5 billion. Please tell me, how many more numbers does it take to say that the government works ineffectively? I was talking about this and I'm saying that the damage to businesses in the previous year, in 2020, five enterprises, only five companies have put 84 billion dollars into the government budget. These are damages that our citizens would pay with their taxes through the state budget. So, dear fellows, let's stop the practice of assigning and releasing people without any results, without any plans to stop, because we're soon going to have no government budget to compensate for all the damage to state-owned enterprises that are now being accumulated. So I call on this head to come in, and the next one comes with a concrete plan of action that he can do, not 20 percent of what he has planned.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u19	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u20	Timishenko Ulya Volodymyrni, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u21	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, if you sometimes read important literature about what trends in the world’s economy, state administration in the world are taking place today, you would see that increasing the role of the state in the administration of every country, in economic processes, today is a trend in the world. There is no country in the world where there is no state property that guarantees security, stability, and protection of citizens. Ukraine is the only country that, with the arrival of a new president and a new power, one of the first decisions it has made is to lift the ban on privatization, to sell all strategic property, is the only and first state in the world. This suggests that essentially started with corruption, started with the destruction of national interests, started with the looting of our key strategic enterprises. And now this policy continues: the hammer sells everything, starting with the war on Ucroborprom and ending with the ground. Such policies will be stopped sooner or later, and all those behind them who have prepared these laws, adopted them, signed them, will be accountable to the country, including the Criminal Code, because the Constitution has been repeatedly violated. And now, of course, those leaders at the People's "Serves of the Nation" who have pursued the policy of destroying the nation's national security through the distribution of state property must certainly be released, as well as the resignation of this authority, which wastes resources and strategic ownership of the country. Glory to Ukraine! And as soon as possible, the end of the power of these ignorants.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u23	Now, just a second. The word is given to the national deputy Batenek Taras Ivanovich. Please, Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, we are looking at an extremely important draft decision. Six months ago, it was clear that the method used by the Maintenance Fund was completely failing for Ukraine. And it was necessary to draw conclusions right away, not to take the time to make such a difficult decision today. The policy of these sets of dilettantes has led to the fact that in fact we have accumulated nearly 100 billion losses in key state enterprises in a year. These costs are now reimbursed through the budget and are essentially compensated by the people of Ukraine. We don't see any strategy for managing industrial enterprises and state property. Instead of working with the government and with the Ministry of Strategic Industrial Policy to create a program that would allow 5-10 billion to send for equipment upgrades, purchase new equipment for strategic state-owned enterprises, create new jobs, open up new export markets, the Holding Fund has been doing what they have been doing for the last 30 years: quietly looting, quietly sitting on these state-owned enterprises, on this state-owned property, and selling it or getting money in envelopes through leases and so on, and nothing has been changed. To be honest, we had to understand right away that government governance policy is a completely different story from what the authorities have offered us. So today we will support the liberation of this leadership of the Maintenance Fund. And once again, what government property should be done by people who are professionally considering what industry is, what is commercial real estate, what are other things that are in every direction are their professionals. State-owned enterprises need to be selected into a separate programme and supported by the government in order to give stability to Ukraine and to give new jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u25	Please, National Deputy Mikhailo Bondar, European Solidarity. There'll be someone else. Wait a minute, Mikhailo Leonidovich. Is there anyone else? Please, it's Koltunovich. The suffritch will be. And then we'll move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, first Mikhailo Bondar, then Reverend Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u26	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. We also require a first-hand report from the Head of the Maintenance Fund. I'll remind you that the holding fund is subordinated to Centrnergo. A centrifuge that was required to buy coal products. Instead, in the 21st year, it supplied 62 percent of imported coal from the Russian Federation. This is the centrnergo, which in 2.5 years has been a bankrupt knife, as in previous years, developed. That is why we require a head report. And we'd like to hear who gave the order - Green, Coleomaysky? Because we know that we don't have a government in the country, and we don't have a monopoly -- there's Greensky, who gives everybody instructions on what's going to happen and how it's going to happen. Therefore, the head of the holding fund should be kept in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u27	Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, well, I hear that the Head of the Property Foundation has been working very badly, and you can't help but agree with that, of course. But there are these two vivid examples, they say, of crossovers. This is destruction with a cut on the metal of the Lysican factory "Proletar". It's a government factory that made glass that we, by the way, import this critical import for Ukraine. What's done to the mines. Our faction is offering 12 million to raise production in government mines. And here they want to shut them down, destroy them, and actually pour them. I have a question: if he's so bad, why did you assign him? Can't you figure out what the human resources are? But there is one very serious ethical question. The person is in a hospital, under a dropper, and that's how we have to film him now? You don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 6382) on the release of Seninick Dmitry Volodymyrovic from the post of Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:33:50]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please, colleagues. Let's move on to the next question. Next question is 55. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, there won't be a vote, I'm sorry. I understand, please let the camera figure out what happened there, why the line didn't work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Wait a second. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko is from the procedure. I understand, Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The three Ukrainian national deputies from the Fatherland faction, who are in one row, to Mr. Kabachenko, to Mr. Eutushenka. Eutushka and Mr. Krulk, the button didn't work, they voted, and they're listed as non-vote. If we have a problem with the "Race" system, let's now announce a break of 20 to 30 minutes and run a test. Because we cannot leave the situation where the MPs are not sure that they are voting and their vote is not counted. If the technical services confirm the problem, we may need to consider some procedural issues or put the matter to a vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a 30-minute recess to find out what's going on in the hall and see if there are any of these people who are claiming to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to invite the deputies into the hall, we'll continue our meeting. As for the MPs' complaints about the non-working of the cards, we gave an order to the Apparatus, they're preparing help on this situation, and they immediately called back about shutting down the Council. The procedure is Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u33	Mr. Chairman, in my memory, this was the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament when a dozen votes were not included in a key vote that determines the state's privatisation policy. That's the first one. The other one. I demand or appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to accept orders and to conduct a service investigation involving members of the MPs in what has happened, because we don't know how many times this has happened, why it happened. And the third question. Why are the MPs signaling this and not the technical services of Parliament? Why do they not see that there are problems with voting? And as for the vote on the head of the holding fund, he's in the towers right now, so let's write a restatement, we'll do the procedure again, and we'll take a second look at that. We won't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Then we've got a few people who want out of the procedure, and then I'm going to suggest we get a fix on who else wants to. The Opposition Platform for Life, the Party for the Future, Dmitri Alexanderovich, is non-fractional. "Fatherland" has already said, Mr. Anton, let's get away from the factions and the non-factional. And with regard to the signaling of the apparatus, with regard to information from the apparatus, it was immediately, to their honor. As soon as you raised your hands, you called me right away. They said the channel's been shut down. That's what they're saying. We don't really understand what this is about. There's already official information, and we're going to publish it and bring it to the people's deputies: there's been a downturn in Channel 25 of the Council system, and here's what they're reporting. And as for the service investigation, I think it really needs to be done in order to make it impossible for the future. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, of the procedure, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. A covert incident took place in the Supreme Council, immediately reported hacker attacks again by the Kremlin. Regrettably, there have been such incidents, and not once. I myself have been addressing the chairpersons on the non-working of our jobs and the inability to vote, and there has never been a vote, and this is a normal practice, unfortunately. We have no reason to vote now. Our deputies supported the resignation, they did not vote, unfortunately. And now, hopefully, all the technical problems have been corrected. We'll be able to work in peace on the daytime. And the body authorized by the Constitution is to make a new submission, and the committee can consider it urgently, and we can go back to the way established by the Rules and the Constitution today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u36	Thank you. Victor Bondar, Future Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I have repeatedly spoken at our meetings held in the last year under the leadership of the Supreme Council, about the fact that the "Council" system is really out of date, 15 years of virtually nothing has been updated – no server equipment, no remote control, no operating system. Look at the operational information, who voted, what was going on, what materials were being considered, and so on and so on, the system is not responding to all the buttons that are here. I'm proposing and saying this last year, and now we're going to predict and implement a complete replacement of the entire system into a modern information system that will allow us to work quickly. When the button is not voted on, it has repeatedly happened, how many statements have been written about how to count the voice there or there, because people push the buttons, and the system shows nothing. I have had to deal with this myself on many occasions. So please, let's anticipate funding and make an update.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u39	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dmitry Razumkov, "Smart Politics" union. Dear colleagues, it is impossible to vote on the question. In order to get back into it, there must be a statement by Mr. Sennick, a committee review, and only then will we be able to consider a new decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Plus, Mr. Sennichenko is already in the walls of the Supreme Council, and I wish him health, everything went well. Even today, we can consider if the committee gathers to consider the matter, such as during a break. This time. Two. I think that really, I support my colleague, we need to go back to what we've been doing for a few years, and yet we need to anticipate the costs, and we need to modernize the Council system, and it's been working since 2001, and it can be a failure. It's not a machine problem, believe me, let's face it, it's a technical problem. It's doing so much to keep the "Council" system going today in any way. And then the proposal is to make a signal vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u40	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Then, are you still out of procedure? Mazurashu, "Serve of the People" and Rachmanin, "The Voice." Mazurashu, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u41	I would like to remind you, my friends, that we had a legislative initiative signed by dozens of people's deputies, which, if implemented, allowed us to solve such technical problems in the workplace. I'm very much asking that we go back to this subject, and the committee of profile, and Sergei Calchenka, and other colleagues, please go back to solving this problem, because we need to have a voice protection mechanism for everyone. We pay attention when dozens of national deputies lose their voice because of technical problems, but we do not pay attention when they are alone. I also had a button that didn't work many times, and there's no point in writing a statement, because there's no mechanism for counting that voice right now. And that must be because it's the Constitution and the laws that guarantee us a voice and we have the opportunity to protect it. I very much ask you to return to this question and resolve it in a legislative way, and have the opportunity to protect every MP's voice in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u42	Thank you. Sergey Rachmanin, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u43	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Everything that's not done is done for the better. I have a somewhat controversial offer, and as far as I'm concerned, it's as close to constructive as possible. Do not modernize the technology system until we have officials to report to the Supreme Council. As far as I can tell, it's the only way to get an official to come and report. You see, the buttons didn't work in a row, so Sennichenko showed up, and maybe today we'll hear the report. So I have an offer not to spend any money on modernization until we have officials to report to the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Now there's a proposal to make a signal vote to see if they work in all the cards. This vote is for nothing, it's just a signal, a test. You can vote any button, just in case there's no innuendo. And the Apparatus' request to prepare for this system as well and to see if all the channels really work. Then the individual national MPs who don't have the card now, the request to come to us, the request to contact us, and we'll immediately question the apparatus. So please prepare for the vote. We're starting the vote. Please turn on the alarm vote. [[11:17:03]] For 208 Please, okay. If someone's not working, go in private, then let us know. Thank you. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, with your permission, I'm proposing to the committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social status. " [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, my God, I'm sorry. I'm here. I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, because I came by later.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u46	I'm sorry, I didn't pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u47	I don't know what stage we're at. All right, I get it. I'm sorry, we've come to the question of 5583, 5583-1: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. So I would like to take this issue up by a reduced procedure. [[11:18:29]] For 219 Decision taken. I'd like to invite you to speak with the Deputy Minister on Illashenko Alexi Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Ministry of Veterans of Ukraine is actively pursuing measures to shape and implement state policy in the area of social protection of war veterans. To this end, a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, has been developed to implement the draft bill for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to legislativeize the definition of "state policy of social protection for war veterans", "social protection for war veterans" and "complex review of the system of social protection for war veterans" and to regulate the mechanism of strategic planning for the development of this system. The bill proposes a comprehensive review of the system of social protection for war veterans, which is scheduled to be held once every five years to assess the existing state and readiness of the system and its components to perform the functions. The procedure for conducting a comprehensive survey is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As a result of a comprehensive review, conceptual documents will be developed for the development of a system for the social protection of war veterans and their constituents, and measures will be taken to achieve the necessary capabilities in this area by the public authorities. The draft law is in agreement with all interested public authorities, and its public discussion has taken place. The adoption of the bill will have a positive impact on the interests of war veterans and their families and will allow the introduction of a strategic planning mechanism in this area. The implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure on the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u49	Thank you. I invite the author of an alternative bill, National Deputy of Ukraine, Natalia Juryovna Královska. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, about the government bill. Well, it refers exclusively to general definitions, terms, methodologies, monitoring, but unfortunately, it doesn't solve in any way the issues facing the country today about social protection. For more than four years, we have not implemented the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, when the Constitution says that veterans have the right to receive social guarantees, they have the right to receive real protection from the State today. But unfortunately, the previous government, that this government is total legal nihilism, because they simply do not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Because in recent years we have begun to divide veterans into real and unreal ones, into those who protected the country yesterday, the day before yesterday, and those who defend today. But you can't do that. If a person has protected our country 10, 20, 30, 70 years ago, he has the right to receive protection from the state. And so in the alternative bill, our team has proposed to take into account all decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the restoration of social guarantees and benefits of all Ukrainian veterans, to support today people who have protected our country in different years and under different circumstances and to give them due, not to go to the government, to change the names of laws and terms, but not to protect people and not to perform their public duties. We urge you to vote for an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u51	Thank you. The co-rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans’ Rights, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakova, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! On September 13, the Committee considered both bills at its meeting. He recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of a government bill because it is in the queen of social politics of participants in hostilities. This is a system bill that will allow social policy to be incorporated into the fight against its foundations. Unfortunately, all previous benefits granted by previous parliaments have never been reconciled to the 95th article of the Constitution with the State budget as such. Now the newly created Ministry of Veterans Affairs (you know it was created 2.5 years ago), it's a systematic policy in this queen. And that will finally balance the state budget with those systemic things that are being done in the ministry. That's why the committee is offering to accept it. As far as the alternative bill is concerned, it is not only an alternative to the part of the system, but it is resourceful and has been submitted to a committee without taking into account the Budget Code and our Rules, the financial and economic justification has not been added to it. But the committee notes that the things presented in the alternative bill are mentioned in Bills 3222, 5089, 5105 and 5105-1 and recommended that the committee process these bills, and take into account the positive things that are in the alternative bill, when considering the bills mentioned at the end of my report. Thank you. Request to support the Cabinet bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Is there a need? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bogdanac Andrija Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u54	Please pass the word Ostapenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u55	National MP Ostapenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, as head of social protection for veterans' rights, please support the government bill, which will allow some definitions to be organized and the mechanisms for the development of social security for veterans. At present, about a hundred legal acts regulate the benefits and rights of our veterans and more than twenty state bodies grant these rights. We have a cross-section of some of the concepts that balance the system, and the government authorities that do these functions have exactly the irresponsibility that we have, because the state is now taking care of its advocates, all the more so now. Please support my colleague with bill 5583. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u57	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u58	Please pass the word "Constankevic".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u59	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u60	Irina Konstankevich, Volin, 23rd constituency, Party for the Future. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we will support the government bill, but at the same time, we stress that long ago, at the time of the issue of recovery of benefits and services for veterans. The thing is, everything about veterans and their support at the state level has turned into a Brownie movement. It's not just about the number of institutions, it's not just about the number of legislation that regulates the provision of social support for veterans, it's not about the fact that there's no proper funding and there's no decision on either the Constitution or the Constitutional Court, and there's a huge problem. So I think it's the right thing to do here to support this bill. Next, our group insists on restoring the financing of all the benefits and social services that veterans should receive. And third, it is imperative to coordinate this work in the only ministry that will take care of the veterans. And the fourth. Medical services to be provided to veterans Our fighters die, get injured, but medically appropriate, support, they don't. So please, these four issues must be the key to dealing with veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u61	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u63	Mikhailo Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u64	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. I agree with colleagues who are saying that, in fact, we need to fund these programs that relate to the protection of veterans and their rights, so when the rapporteur of the government law said that it doesn't need to be financed extra, it would be important to note here that, in fact, there is an extra funding just as much as there is a number one for this to settle all those issues. And it doesn't have to be that in fact all the benefits are being hung up on local self-government. The boys and girls who went through the pits of war did not protect separate OTGs, did not protect a particular area, they protected the Motherland, Ukraine. And that's why the government budget has all the costs to be compensated for when it comes to benefits -- whether it's transportation, whether it's medical, or whether it's other benefits that are legally required for war veterans. That's why European Solidarity will vote in favour of government law, but we urge that in every budget, whether it's year 22 or beyond, these amounts to support our veterans should be substantially increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u65	Please, National Deputy Placheva Tetyana Mikhailovna, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u66	Please pass the word to the Royal Natalia Juryevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u67	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I'd like to go to the hall again. Now you and I have two ways. The first way is the government path they're offering, is to continue to simulate the activity, so we're talking about veterans, but we're not doing anything for them. Because this bill does not provide a single penny to support all the veterans of our country today. The other way is the path offered by "The Opposition Platform for Life." This is the way that we give money to you and we normalize and do everything we can to get all the veterans, starting with the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the veterans of labor, the children of war, the Chernobyls, the Afghans -- all the people who have been protecting our country for years -- to really get protection, support and care from the state. Today is a very important time for our country, when we, the Parliament of Ukraine itself, must demonstrate that we can protect people, that we can do this with responsibility, not talk, not talk about new methodologies here, but really make decisions that support and protect people. Why do you continue to imitate this turbulent activity? New methodologies, new terms, new definitions -- but this government can't really make any decisions that will help people today to protect people. Therefore, if you are in favour of imitating the work of this Parliament, please vote in favour of the government bill. But no veteran will get any support from this. But if you're really ready to protect people, vote for our bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, there will be a national deputy, Ustinov, and the national deputy, Zimbaluk. Then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ustinovy Alexandri Yuriovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now vote on the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. I want to tell you what these guarantees of public policy will now be based on the principle of social justice, which will be reviewed every five years. Thus, there is no point in this law that these benefits will not be reduced when viewed. As long as it's not in the law, this fuse won't be allowed to vote in the second reading. Because it will end in five years from now, our social justice will decline, and we, as usual, have seen that there is social justice for attachés who are now being landed from routes that are being cut off by benefits to be tried by the state for 5,000 dollars a year. It's a disgrace! So I ask you to include in the second reading a mandatory item that will not reduce the benefits to the atoniks or mention the families of the dead. Because there's no word in this bill about social justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk, "Fatherland" faction. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u72	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, in fact, there is a very positive thing about this bill: it's a good name. Everything else is desire and purpose. Dear colleagues, clearly, the newly created ministry is supposed to produce state policy in the field of protecting veterans, but it needs to be given a resource, that's for sure. The bill states that a comprehensive review of all benefits will be carried out every five years. I agree with my colleagues, today most of these benefits have been transferred to territorial communities that are supposed to be looking for money, and they don't have it. And because of that, there are no more benefits in one city, there are no benefits in another. Because of this, we will not be able to make any corrections to the second reading, for the law is so prescribed. We will, of course, support the Motherland team, but the money has to be given, real support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Please take your seats, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt Bill No. 5583, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Once again, the registration number of Project 5583. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:35:58]] For 281 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, before we go to the next law, I would like to inform you that, well, in advance, when there was a breakdown in the system, we will not vote, but a statement has come from the Head of the State Property Fund again and I'm commissioning the Committee of Economic Policy to meet during the break and resolve this issue so that after lunch we can vote again on this issue so that everything is within the limits of the Rules. It's a deal, isn't it, colleagues? On a new application. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, on a new application. There'll be a new ruling, a new application. Yes, of course. There won't be a vote, my friends. But at the same time, it does bring the problem up to date again. We vote on the ruling, my friends, in accordance with the Rules. From the procedure, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, in view of the coming of the new statement by the Head of the State Property Fund regarding my own free will, I ask you to invite the Head of the State Property Fund to the Supreme Council Sessional Hall to report during the release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u75	Thank you. Such a proposal would be, but the ruling would take place within the limits provided for in the Rules. If there's a wish, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Besides, I'd like to remind all the factions and groups, and we agreed, on a 12-hour break, to discuss the issues that we talked about yesterday. Let's go to the next Bill 5274, 5274-1, this is the Bill on the Development of Bees, Protection, Protection and Conservation of Bees. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:38:12]] For 230 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich. Please, Vadim Evgenovich. The singer. A speedboat, because I've got Ivchenko. Please, Ana Constantine's Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I ask you to see the videos recorded by the beekeepers. Because if you want to eat honey with a spoon, please listen to them. Please, video. [[Video recording broadcast]] Please support the beekeepers.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u77	I invite you to speak to the author of the alternative bill of the people of the Ukrainian MP Nikita Marina Victorian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u78	Nikita Marina, 82 County, Birthplace, "Serve of the People." To your attention, your colleagues and your distinguished presidency, the alternative bill on the development of beekeeping and the protection of bees, which was based on the long-term work of the working group at the Mineconomy of the leading associations of beekeepers and scientists. The bill was supported by more than 50 people's deputies, as well as by the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Preparatory Committee, an alternative bill recommended for adoption at a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What, then, are its main advantages? Like the basic bill, the alternative protects the bees with the same effective mechanism of digestion, guaranteeing and guaranteeing the rights and interests of herdsmen. Our alternative bill also protects shipping as a cultural, intangible heritage of the entire Ukrainian people. It introduces the concept of "apitherapy" at the legislative level and protects it, and it gives it development to this area, which has never been mentioned in legislation before. But the main difference is that it is our alternative bill that protects Ukrainian Aboriginal breeds of bees from destruction. Their destruction is threatened by the uncontrolled passage into Ukraine of hybrid, foreign, alien species of bees, whose breeding is beyond control. And the basic bill is not solving this problem in any way, and our alternative is solving it. So I want to encourage you to support the alternative bill itself and give you a chance to develop in Ukraine the Ukrainian Selective cause, give you a chance to develop scientific institutions from the development of Ukrainian selection.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u79	The word is given to the coreporter to the head of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy, Schol Margariti Vitaliyovni. Please, Marguerite Vitaliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u80	The Agrarian and Land Policy Committee at its meeting considered Bill 5274 and Alternative Bill 5274-1. According to the Committee, Bill 5274 is filled with regulations of a sub-legislative nature and other sectoral legislation that does not conform to existing legislative acts in this area, has a high degree of regulation and balances the existing system of public administrations, foresees the creation of a new central executive body. Moreover, the individual provisions of the basic bill are of a declarative nature. The committee notes that the difference between the alternative bill and the main bill is that it sets out the basic requirements for the development of beekeeping and the protection of bees, and clearly defines the list of subjects and objects of beekeeping. The legal principles of shipping are defined. An active State support mechanism is proposed. The Committee also stressed that, according to part one, article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, taking into account the relevance of Bill 5274-1 to the agricultural sector, in order to systematically address the issue of encouraging the development of beekeeping and the appropriateness of amending other legislative acts relating to this issue, it is necessary to prepare for the second reading for the preparation of a revised position that was not considered in the first reading. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 5274-1 and to reject Bill 5274 accordingly. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yeah. Please sign up: two in, two in. The only request I have is for us to be able to vote by 12. Please, National Deputy of Ukraine Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u82	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Nalitov Dmitr?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u83	Dmitri Nalotov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u84	Good afternoon! Dmitry's attack, "Serial of the People" faction. Beekeeping in Ukraine is one of the areas that allows rural populations to open up small and medium-sized businesses in the countryside. It is related not only to the production of honey but also to green tourism, the provision of health care, treatment and prevention of diseases through beekeeping products, i.e. apitherapy, the production of kraft products, medovars, cosmetics. And it's the alternative bill 5274-1 that legitimizes and gives legal status to apitherapy and apiturism. We therefore call for the support of the alternative bill itself recommended by the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u85	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u86	Please give Arthur Gerasimov the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u87	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, the presiding lord, the honourable Ukrainians! We clearly support the development of beekeeping. The only thing I would like to say is that after studying these two bills, we will definitely support the bill of the main Mr. Yvchenk, our colleague Yvchenka. But with all due respect for beekeeping, which is a very important component of our exports, you know, today is the key to supporting our army, it's supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and above all, it's supporting money. And once again, I would like to remind you that "European Solidarity" has passed Bill 6245 on the allocation of an additional 50 billion dollars in the Armed Forces of Ukraine in order to increase the salaries of the military in order to double the costs of arms purchase. And to be honest, I don't understand why there's no bill in this room today to increase these expenses. So, dear colleagues, we will normally support the bill of colleague Yvchenka. But I have a great request for the leadership of the Supreme Council, for the leadership of the "Serve of the People" faction, to immediately support the consideration of Bill 6245 in this sessionary hall and to urgently allocate money to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And I'd like to remind you once again when you say that money is not needed by the Armed Forces of Ukraine right now, at a meeting with the Chief of the Supreme Council, all the faction leaders have heard that, money is definitely needed and very large. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u89	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to give the floor to a well-known expert in beekeeping, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u91	Nestor Ivanovich, please have such talents. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u92	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, honestly, I don't mind bees. And our faction, by the way, too. But look what the bill suggests: Creation! A central executive body that ensures the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of beekeeping. Tell me, people good, well, leave them in peace, they've lived with us for millions of years, and hopefully after that they'll live. Do you know what they say in the people? The wisdom is known: If you want apples to disappear in the country, create an apple ministry. Dear colleagues, well, please, let's still understand that we have the competence of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. Well, if it was 2005, 2010, I'd understand. Viktor Andryovich even told Japan that our bees are more working than Japanese bees because they are twice as big. But, my friends, we are a serious legislative body, so let's give protocol to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to pay special attention, to support. We're in, but we're spending money on creating another central authority that's going to prevent bees from living? Well, we honestly don't get it. So, friends, colleagues, let's stop. We have shown a desire to love and support bees, but to vote for this -- we disqualify ourselves as Ukrainian national deputies, well, both our country and power, if possible. Please, by loving bees, let us not interfere with their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u93	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u95	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u96	Samantha Bobrowski. Dear colleagues, our beekeepers and respected Ukrainians! You know very well that bees thrive only on Ukrainian soil. And our bees should be safe not only from agroholding chemicals but also from mosquitoes. Therefore, a huge request for support from the Ukrainian Armed Forces and support of 3 billion to provide territorial defences. Then the bees will be thick. to buzz in your lands and fields 24 hours a day with the support of the U.S.S.S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u97	Please give the floor to the national deputy Eutuska. Oh, my God, Yvchenk. Please, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u98	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, well, there's actually something to improve in this law. I simply have to say that this law has emerged from the work of many people who have found no understanding in the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, which today lobbies large agricultural holdings. That is why all the herdsmen have asked you to support them. We will, of course, institutionally look right to make this law, for example, one that will protect the interests of beekeepers without creating appropriate institutions, but an alternative bill, it's extremely lobbyistic for agrarian holdings. That's why it was created, and that's why it was removed from the task force, and that's why it's registered. That's why I'm asking you to vote for the basic bill. And I'm saying that we're working so hard that this sector is actually going to get State support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u99	Now, just a second. Please, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich and then Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say with one phrase: not funny. The country that is in such a state of emergency today: conflict on the borders of the semi-military, energy crisis, simply driven by a frenzied pace, the decline in industrial production, the issue of food security -- many issues that are now extremely relevant -- social simply failed policies, when people are now starving in separate villages and cities of Ukraine. And Parliament is considering, with all due respect to beekeepers, who today are completely ridiculous, and all the country today is laughing at what this Parliament and this authority are doing. Stop! There's something to think about. Where is that government with industrial programs? Where is the support of the Ukrainian economy? Where are the energy issues to be considered today? How do we prepare for the gas jam in the new season because we're going to stay for the next gas-free season at all? Where the money's accumulating today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u101	I'm sorry, I've already spoken to you. Whitelighter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Larissa Bilozer, Trust Group, Winnitzkin. I wouldn't underestimate the importance of beekeeping in Ukraine, it's 400,000 people who work, grasshoppers, in this field, and our country's second among the largest honey suppliers, and legislation really needs updating for a long time. And the changes in the alternative bill are designed to protect both bees and bees. And it's about protecting and protecting bees, warning of poisoning. The co-operation of agrarians and herdsmen, it is necessary, and we have many cases where there is mass destruction of bees because non-casual agrarians do not report in advance. And this is a question that needs to be resolved for a long time because not only do bees suffer, but also do people suffer. So I think we need to support this alternative bill. Trust Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. In line with the committee's conclusion, I'm putting Bill 5274-1 first. So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing to the committee to adopt a bill, a bill for the development of beekeeping and protection of bees (project number 5274-1). [[B in m in s a l in]] Because I'm doing what the committee recommends. If he doesn't pick up, he treats the other one. These are the rules in the Rules. Dear colleagues, once again. I'm proposing to the committee to adopt Bill No. 5274-1. It's a bill on the development of beekeeping and the protection of bees. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:56:42]] For 221 The decision is not taken. In accordance with the Rules, I have to make an alternative right now. The main one. Major, I'm sorry. One who was not supported by the committee. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the bill on the development of beekeeping, protection, and conservation of bees (project number 5274). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:57:31]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, then I propose that these bills be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. See, put it again? Because according to the 114th Rules, I have to make a return first. If there's a potential for a second time in the room, I'm going to suggest that we put these bills back in the first place. One, yes. I would like to propose a return to the bill recommended by the committee, 5274-1, for one more time. Please vote. [[11:58:37]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Great. I'm going to suggest that we return to Bill 5274 again, this is a bill on the development of beekeeping, protection, protection and preservation of bees. The offer is to return to the first reading. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:59:13]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, then I propose to return these bills to the legislators for further work. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:59:39]] For 274
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u104	Decision taken. The Supreme Council did not know such a battle for a bee. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a break. I'll see you in 30 minutes. Thank you, colleagues. I'd like the factions to meet me and the groups in the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u106	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I propose to change the order of the day and consider Bill 6302 first. I have no objection to bees, I understand Mr. Sennichenko's health, but today we have a certain circumstance that has allowed us to hold back a little in our consideration of the issues of the order of the day and we may not be able to consider a matter that is very important, because again, this bill is making substantial changes to the construction of the territorial defence system. I would very much ask my colleagues to support and consider Bill 6302 first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u107	Thank you. Yes, look, Sergey Ivanovich, I have an offer like this. Just so people can get together and we can be sure of that. Now we're going to vote the TSC, there's 150 votes, then the calendar plan, and then I'm going to make your proposal right away. It'll take us a few minutes. Okay? Is that a compromise? Dear colleagues, let's get to the question -- Project 6340 -- is a temporary commission of inquiry, a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of possible corruption that led to significant losses in the budget of the State budget of Ukraine. This issue does not need to be included in the agenda, but needs to be voted on in favour of a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please, I ask you to take your seats. Please. 6340. [[12:45:57]] For 214 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether we can. Ivanovich, isn't it? Can we vote now? I'm sorry, Calchenko has to speak. I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Kalchenk. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u108	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission (registration number 6340). As a result of its consideration of the draft, the Committee adopted the conclusions and recommended that Parliament decide on the draft decision by voting on the Committee's observations and suggestions on the name and tasks of the interim commission of inquiry. In particular, the name of the decision should be given in the following wording: "On the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible corruption by officials of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the State Customs Service of Ukraine, which could have led to a reduction in revenue to the State budget, and possible abuses in the financial and economic activities of the Association of Shareholders of Naftogaz of Ukraine." Paragraph 1 of the draft regulation should be in accordance with this name and should be worded as follows: "First. To set up a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible corruption of officials of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the State Customs Service of Ukraine, which could have led to a reduction in revenue to the State budget, and possible abuses in the financial and economic activities of the company "National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine" (hereinafter the Temporary Investigation Commission)." Paragraph 2 of the draft decision should be drafted as follows: "Determining the main tasks of the Interim Investigation Commission: investigating the facts of possible corruption of officials of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the State Customs Service of Ukraine, which could lead to a reduction in revenue to the State budget. Two. The conduct of the audit of the financial and economic activities of the Naftogaz Association of Ukraine, the technical and financial situation, the efficiency of the use of the core funds, which are subjects of state ownership, the state of the natural gas distribution systems, the types of activities of the shareholders and other companies, and so on, the maintenance of the approved policy and the ownership of the shareholders, the conduct of the verification of the information on receipt." All comments are made in conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u109	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, we can put to the vote. So, with your permission, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of possible corruption that led to significant losses in the income part of the State budget of Ukraine (project registration number 6340). Ready to vote? Please vote. Oh, from the committee's point of view, of course. Please vote. [[12:49:16]] For 266 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The next question, 6440, is the draft decree on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Wait a second. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:49:57]] For 217 Decision taken. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u110	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People’s Deputies, you are invited to consider a revised draft Parliamentary Decision on a calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call (Registration 6440), which was made in accordance with the committee’s decision of January 26 of this year. This draft is prepared in accordance with the requirements of part one of article 83 of the Constitution, articles 10 and 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The draft calendar plan proposes to begin the seventh session of the Supreme Council on February 1, in accordance with the Constitution, and to conclude on July 22, this year. During the seventh session, the draft calendar plan is devoted to: plenary meetings of the Parliament – 10 weeks; committees, commissions, parliamentary factions (deputy groups) – 10 weeks; the work of Ukrainian national deputies with voters – 5 weeks; and the "hours of questions to the Government" in the Supreme Council – 11 hours. During the preparation of the draft calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council on the ninth call to create favourable conditions for a more rational use of working time, the schedule for holding the next sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from 25 to 29 April and from 20 to 24 June; the spring session of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO from 27 to 30 May; the holidays of non - work days; and the religious holidays provided for in article 73 of the Labour Code. The committee therefore decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the proposed draft Ordinance (worked) on a calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nagaevski Artem Sergiyovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u112	Thank you. Please pass the word to Mikhail Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u113	Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. My friends, I would like to remind you that today Ukraine has crossed the limit of more than 30,000 sick people. I would like to remind you that in Ukraine today, there are two areas in the red zone and fifteen in the orange zone. I would like to remind you that according to the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, based on the experience and statistics of other countries that are already at the top of this wave, this is not the largest number of those who have ever been sick. Today, we realize that the next two or three weeks we will have more than 60, for the 70,000 who are sick in Ukraine. Yeah, well, luckily, Omicron, especially in vaccinated people, doesn't cause any serious complications. Thankfully, today, even in 30,000 patients, there are no more than 30 percent of our beds with oxygen in the country. TODAY, MOH has arranged to double the supply of oxygen to Ukrainian hospitals. But I also want to inform you that today is more vulnerable to this strain of Omicron virus, children. Today, the country as a whole has already occupied more than 70 beds for children who have been assigned to the country for Omicron. And, colleagues, now I want to ask you. What other figures do you need for all of us here in the hall to start respecting at least our own health and wearing masks, meeting the requirements of quarantine requirements in the country? What is more, colleagues, is that the state's council television channel, which should be an example, is a respected chairman and a respected first deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] I took my mask off when I came out, I'm sorry. Just like your leader does when he's here. I'm sorry. When the state's council channel is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u115	Thank you. Mikhailo Borisovich, you say the right things. And yet I am. Since it is up to us as head of Parliament to do everything possible to maintain the health of the national MPs, the next time I address each of you in this room, I ask you to follow the means of resisting the coronary disease, which is the mask and the sanitary treatment of your hands. Please, Your Honor, let's not forget this. I give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Lopushanski Andrija Jaroslavovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u117	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u118	Dear Society, yes, it is clear that Ukraine today faces the challenge of increasing the number of people who have become sick with coronary disease. But let's be honest, people's deputies were supposed to be responsible for long ago and vaccines, and not once, but secondly, they had to wear masks. As we can see, in most cases they sit together with no masks, and some of them show that they do not need to be vaccinated. It's another important moment. Doctors don't go to quarantine. Employees of factories, factories, and state enterprises do not go into quarantine. The troops do not go into quarantine because they keep us safe. And the Supreme Council, which, theoretically, has to be completely vaccinated after five weeks, let's be honest, almost the rest is about to go back to rest without answering the most important questions facing the state today. Please tell me where the army's extra funds have been allocated. This is what the Secretary of Defense says, this is what the military is talking about: it takes 50 billion today to increase the security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and today it takes at least 2.7 billion dollars to set up seats for the territorial defence battalions -- there is no such thing. The Supreme Council is not responding to the challenge of fighting the coronavirus, it is not responding to the challenges of the energy crisis, the social crisis, but now it wants to go somewhere to rest. So, with respect, I insist that, first of all tomorrow, the Supreme Council is due to adopt legislation urgently to increase the security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and then we can talk about something.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u119	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u120	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u121	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u122	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, from the most interesting point of view, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will vote against this decision – against it. Why would we vote against it? Because we only have two weeks to implement the political part of the Minsk Accords. You've all seen in the news, yesterday in Paris there was a negotiation of so-called advisors, or they and the de facto are advisors, leaders of the Minsk countries. It was agreed that one point in the implementation of the Minsk Armistice Agreements and three point in the monitoring of the Armistice. But what do they expect from us? And in two weeks, there's going to be a second phase of this negotiation in Berlin. Why can't we go to so-called holidays or work on committees right now? Because the Supreme Council has to vote on at least four paragraphs from the Minsk Treaty implementation package. This is paragraph 4 on elections, this is paragraph 5 on amnesty, paragraph 8 on economic blockade and economic recovery. And start a direct negotiation dialogue with the ORDLO on paragraph 11, which refers to Donbas' special status. Therefore, the Supreme Council does not have the moral right to impose a higher leadership of the country today and to move against the implementation of a set of measures from the Minsk covenants. We are obliged to work, we are obliged to bring about the issue of peace in Ukraine. This is question number one in Ukraine, and any sociology will show you that. So our faction advocates that we work in plenary for these two weeks, that we, and the committees, and the Supreme Council, vote on those political points from the Minsk Treaty implementation package, and finally in Ukraine there will be peace. Thank you for your attention. I'm asking you not to support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u123	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, a group called Party for the Future. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u124	Colleagues, we see that we're not actually considering any strategic issues this week, even in situations of escalation, of a military crisis on the border with the Russian Federation. Even such a strategic question as beekeeping would seem to have been a success in this room, once again finding that dead bees do not flinch, even failing to work. So what are we talking about? Friends, we're here to wait for the Ministry of Defense to meet with the Secretary of Defense, a set of bills to help us help the army with the changes to Ukraine's State Budget. We're not talking about populism on this issue, we're talking about it specifically. If we're told that 2.7 billion dollars is needed for the terrorists, we're willing to do that. Let's give the bill to the government, Mr. Secretary of Defense, and we're going to the next or second session, and we're voting in this room. Similarly to other issues of ensuring the vitality of our army. This includes our entrepreneurs, which we repeatedly stress. If the session hall is failing the issue of the extension of the RRO, because the train is actually gone, and no matter how much we fight against the wall, we won't break this wall, at least we can postpone the fines. And we also insist that this session hall vote to postpone the fines by the end of this year. So our MP group, given the mass illness of the people's deputies, thinks that Parliament is not going on any vacation, Parliament is simply changing the working regime. Let us not deceive the electorate and ourselves, but work on the mode in which the current political situation allows us to be prepared to gather at any time when it can get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u125	Thank you. Please give the word to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, you know, I remember perfectly the meeting when Kiev was in the red zone and wanted to reschedule. Then it was as if all the heads of the factions had arranged, and then there was the President's position that he wanted to see how Parliament works, to show the picture. So I think we need to respect the President and show how Parliament works next week, just in the absence of a majority. Now, seriously. Dear colleagues, if we were to work this week and accept the important changes that the Secretary of Defense, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Social Policy, would be able to cancel these meetings with a clear conscience and catch up with them. But unfortunately, this whole week we've been doing the execution, and it's still in the law that the airline discounts, and the money for the district increases. So as the Voice party, we're not going to vote in favour of this resolution, we think that there are enough laws that are unifying in this room, and next week we can just consider those laws that we've always lacked time for and, of course, consider important military issues. We will not vote for this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Please, "Serve of the people." Raducci, you're on. Raducci spoke. Are you out of procedure? Please, Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u128	Colleagues, I suggest everyone stop manipulating what journalists are saying when they say the Supreme Council is going to work on the committee, someone says it's the Supreme Council going to rest. I remind everyone if you didn't go to the committee that it's the basic work of the bill that's done on the committees. That's the first one. And secondly, laborers, I warn you, every day, just for today, only in "Serve of the People," I don't know how in other factions, eight diseases, more than 50 people are sick in the Apparatus. If we spend another week in a closed room, perhaps a week later, when we really need to gather and adopt important laws, we will have no one to accept them at all. So the idea is that because of Zoom, even the sick can conduct and work on their committees and then gather in the hall so that they can at least wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u129	Arthur Volodymyrovich out of procedure? Only by procedure like David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished Ukrainians! Listen, so-called colleagues, I'm sorry, so-called, because you can't vote on any law, majority. Are you guys even looking around? Do you understand that the enemy is standing at the gate? You see what's going on in the economy? You see what's going on in energy? And at this time you want to go again, let's face it, from the bottom of our heads. Don't tell us about the committees. Don't talk! That's why, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have a great request: not to vote, not to support this decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now you want to work, that's your answer to the Ukrainian army, to the teachers, to the doctors who are now in combat positions. And you want to run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u131	You can do it then. Dear colleagues, before we go to the vote, I will ask the Chamber to calm down. Dear colleagues, if this decision is now supported and we get these three days as work on the committees, I'm assigning all the committees of the Supreme Council all these three days to gather and work and enforce laws so that there will be no speculation. As Head of the Supreme Council, I give a mandate to all committees, if such a decision is made, to meet both the 2nd and the 3rd, and the 4th, and all the days in which the committee is scheduled to work. Thank you, Your Honor. Now let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I propose to accept the entire draft Decision on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 6440). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:06:51]] For 233 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you, we've finished this question. Now, dear fellows, I return to the proposal made by Sergey Ivanovich Rachmanin to move on to question 6302. This is, by the way, that bill we talked about with the Secretary of Defense, I told you about it. Rachmanin. I'm sorry, yes, I'm sorry, Sergey Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, would you mind? Because the Secretary of Defense asked us for two things: the first is 6302, and the second is the ratification is 0143. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. So, dear colleagues, I'd like you to consider now question 6302, after it 0143. These are the things we talked about with the Secretary of Defense during the meeting of the Supreme Council. I propose that we move on to these issues now. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:08:16]] For 278 Decision taken. I'd like to have a word with you. We turn to question 6305, this is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to clarify tasks and the basics of preparation and conduct of national opposition (second reading). I invite a member of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of the Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich. Now, one second, I'll find the law. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? They will, won't they? Well, there are people, so let's go get them. Six o'clock, Cymbaluk. Will you insist? Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich. You don't insist, do you? 7th, Costenko. Don't insist. 13th, Cimbaluk. Please, 13th. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u132	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to say that the law is absolutely necessary. The "Paternity" team will vote in favour, but we think there are a number of conceptual positions that should be put into place. We're offering information. The text of “information that has become known to persons mentioned in paragraph 2 of this section cannot be made public without the permission of the Force Commander of Special Operations” in the following edition: “information with limited access” and beyond, “which has become known to the persons mentioned in the paragraphs without the permission of the Commander of the Force of Special Operations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces”. Otherwise, information that has become known to persons mentioned in the second paragraph may contain public information. These are different things, let's be professional about what information is and what information with limited access is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u133	Please take the seat of the committee, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u134	The point is that we have formulated this standard in a completely different way. We said that information about forms, methods of doing tasks, the performance of resistance forces refers to classified information and everything. So we're actually applying the State Secret Act in this case, so your amendment doesn't make any sense at this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u135	Mikhail Mikhailovich, are you insisting? Yes, you do. Okay. Dear colleagues, the 13th Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Zimbaluq. You've heard the position of both the author and the committee. She's been rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:17]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on. 16th. Keith. Don't insist. 18th. Puzichuk. Don't insist. 20th. Keith. Don't insist. 23rd. Tsymbaluk. Don't insist. Thank you. 24th. Keith. Don't insist. 26th. Tsymbaluk. Please, the 26th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u136	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for trying to do the previous work, but they say this is the legal department that recommended it. My amendment also applies to an important thing. We believe that the leadership, the commander of volunteer formations, is responsible for the leadership of the territorial community. Because, on the other hand, respected colleagues, how can they carry out their work in the future? We suggest that candidates for volunteer leadership of the territorial community agree with the local self - government body in whose territory such voluntary formation will take place, and that they undergo a mandatory special inspection by the Security Service and the National Police in a manner determined by law. This is going to help make it actually a professional job with the future commander of this formation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u137	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u138	The committee chose a different concept. In this case, we refuse to agree with local authorities on the voluntary formation of local communities because, unfortunately, not all local self-government authorities and not all local self-government leaders in Ukraine are openly pro-Ukrainian. We have been obliged to appoint the commanders of volunteer formations as the Commander - in - Command of the Armed Forces for the submission of the commander of the Territorial Defense Force. So we're building a clear hierarchical vertical, in this case the force of territorial defense, and that's absolutely the model rule, so that's what we're proposing to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u139	Mikhail Mikhailovich, we put it to a vote, right? Let's put it on. Dear colleagues, the 26th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Cimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. You've heard an argument from both sides. Please, please, identify and vote. [[13:13:53]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 27th, Costenko. Please, Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u140	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I wanted to insist on three revisions, but, with your permission, if you give me a minute, I'll just take these off.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u141	Please, give me a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u142	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, a very important law, a very complex law, even though it is not large enough. I am very grateful to the committee that has worked hard on these changes. Let me explain to those who don't know, there are two very important things here. First of all, it's clear that the Special Operations Force is to be responsible for the resistance movement, and they will be able to take action as soon as the law is passed and signed, as of today. And the second very important thing, unanimous, I stress, is that the decisions of the committee members, regardless of their party and factional affiliation, have been voted by a very important norm: from now on, if the law is passed, the territorial community volunteers will be able to use, in order to carry out their tasks, not only personal hunting weapons, as was the case before, but also spreadsheets, but, if necessary, at the command of the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, to obtain any actual weapons. It's a very important thing, at least for this purpose this bill is extremely important.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u143	Thank you. Sergey Ivanovich, don't you insist on putting them up? Thank you. Kostenko, that was your amendment. Oh, will there be any more? Then I'll give Kostenka. 29th, Kostenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u144	Mr. Head, please give me two minutes, we've got seven rights with Rachmanin, he's got three down, and I'll take four more, and I'll do it and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u145	It's a great compromise. Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we will support this bill because it is, indeed, important. It's more technical, there's a question when we created this territorial defence institution and it was quickly created, and there's a lot of issues that need to be improved right now. And when the question began, its functioning, there's a lot to be done. And right now, I think there's going to be some other changes, especially those that apply, what my colleague Rahmanin said about giving more concrete and better weapons, not just archery and hunting, for the territorial defence units and there's a lower threshold for those, on the medical committee, for those people who want to sign up for territorial defense. That's the first one. And the second. I don't think that's the last change. In particular, when we created territorial defense, we made such a change or regulation that territorial defense could not carry out a task in the area of combat, by which we actually banned territorial defence, military formation, and protection of our country. Yeah, well, I've registered a bill that we need to adopt in the near future and allow the Commander-in-Chief to use this active and important body of our country, military formation, to protect our country. The Voice supports this bill, and I call on everyone to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u147	Yes, dear colleagues, you don't insist, do you? Thank you. 41 amendment, Cimbaluk. Don't you insist? Please, Mikhailovich, 41 corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u148	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The President-in-chief, the rapporteur, the colleague, we propose to specify in more detail the subjects of responsibility in accordance with paragraph 1 of the first part of the Ukrainian Act "On the Basis of National Opposition" and instead of the proposed bill, the text "persons found guilty of violating the Ukrainian legislation on issues of national opposition are held responsible under the law" in the following wording: "citizens of Ukraine or foreigners or stateless persons who have been found guilty of violations of Ukrainian legislation for the past five years and on a voluntary basis included in the conduct of the service in the form of voluntary formations, the force of territorial defence, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who have been found guilty of violations of Ukrainian legislation on grounds of national opposition." We think it would be more specific, not generally, as suggested in the main edition. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u149	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u150	Thank you for your correction. But on the one hand, you're proposing instead of saying "person" to suggest an expanded formulation of "citizens, non-citizens." And so on and so on, on the other hand, you're narrowing down a valid norm because you're assuming responsibility not for violating the entire National Resistance Act, but only for violating the territorial defence forces. And then there's the component, the resistance movement. So the norm that is in the law in force is absolutely right, and this is a committee rule that is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u151	Mikhail Mikhailovich, will you insist? Thank you. Thank you. 43rd, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 44th, Mama. Don't insist. 46th, Costenko. I got it. 53rd, Mama. Don't insist. 54th, Mama. Don't insist. 55th, Keith. Don't insist. 56th, Bakumov. Keith. Don't insist. Bakumov, 56th. Don't insist. 61st, Mama. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to clarify the tasks and foundations of the preparation and conduct of national opposition (registration number 6302). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready? Please vote. For 266 Decision taken. Doesn't it work again? Copy that, that's it. 266. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The respectable apparatus, please come along, too. Show the factions, please. The camera will be here in a minute, and we'll see, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, Your Honor, but it's just technically reported that the system is dependent on something that they can't even show by factions. Friends, but the results are 266 for a law passed in general. Please, please, Your Honors from the "Council" system, from the Apparatus, please come and check, the whole line has been turned off again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. I already know what it's called 25 Modules. Somehow he's going to fail you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u152	Then we announce a 15 - minute technical break to determine this situation. The faction management should please approach the authorized representatives. Arthur Volodymyrovich, can I talk to you for a second? Victor, Oleg Ivanovich. Julia Volodymyrna, one of you can, Sergei or John is someone. Dear colleagues, in 10 minutes, we will continue to request that the national deputies be invited to the hall. Ten minutes later, 1:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u153	Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko and Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch, can I see you for a second? And Feder Volodymyrovich, come here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u154	Please, we're taking our seats, we're going to keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, as a result of our break of technology, it happened that the "Council" system did not record the results of the vote due to the collapse. So we can't talk about going back to another vote, we have to vote again for that decision. We agreed with our colleagues. So please, honourable national MPs, prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the tasks and foundations of the preparation and conduct of national opposition (project registration number 6302). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:47:34]] For 278 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you, Your Honor. All the results are fixed, right? Thank you. Dear colleagues, that's what we're talking about, we should go back to the technical equipment of the hall, because we can see that it's still putting decisions at risk by the Supreme Council at all. Dear colleagues, we move on, as we voted, to the next question that we will consider, 0143. 0143 is a matter of ratification. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on official credit support for the development of the capabilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:48:53]] For 236 Look, you can ask, I made a deal, look, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure, all 150 is. But I have a request, if someone's got a row down, please raise your hand right now so I can stop the " Rada" system. I understand you've already picked up by the end when the results were there. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you today to come forward more loyally if people lack a vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to report to Deputy Defence Minister Polishchuk Alexander Mikolayovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergei Volodymyrovich! Okay, so I took the word "more loyal" off, just count. Thank you. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Draft law registration number. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u157	Give me a time, please. Please. There's a lot of people here who have changed folders.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u158	Excuse me, please. The draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain was drafted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts for the purpose of implementing the internal state procedure necessary for the effectiveness of the treaty that was made last November 12th in the city of London. The Framework Agreement provides for the launch of state investment projects for the purchase and joint production of two anti-proliferation ships, their delivery and maintenance, the joint construction of eight rocket boats and frigates, the delivery and modernization of weapons systems on existing vessels, the advisory and technical support for the construction of naval infrastructure. The adoption of the draft law does not require additional expenditure from the budget, but also provides grounds for the preparation of credit agreements and contracts with British suppliers in accordance with the terms of the Framework Agreement. This bill is aimed at implementing the task of resupplying the Armed Forces with new and modernized weapons that will enable them to carry out effectively the tasks facing the Forces de Sécurité nationale in the Black Sea and the Azov Seas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovitch Network. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 26 January 2022, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on official credit support for the development of the capabilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on the basis and overall and to ratify the proposed agreement. The purpose of the bill is to implement the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Framework Agreement, which will facilitate the launching of a joint work with the British side on the development of Ukraine's naval potential. This question is most relevant in view of the events of recent months regarding the escalation in the conflict zone in eastern Ukraine as a result of aggressive actions by the Russian Federation. The framework agreement mentioned above will allow for joint projects with the British side to develop the capabilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So this agreement strengthens our defenses. Dear colleagues, please support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u161	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Ukrainian National Deputy Major Olena Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u162	Thank you very much. Please pass the word to Bogdan Yaremenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u163	Please, Bogdan Vasilovich Jaremenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u164	Bogdan Yaremenko, "Serve of the People", Kiev. Dear colleagues, keep calm and carry on. It is a slogan to keep calm and to continue to do its work created by the British government before World War II, very relevant to today, unfortunately, and Ukraine. And equally relevant to our nation is the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of Her Majesty, which is actually transforming the United Kingdom into our nation's strategic partner in the development of the Ukrainian Navy. The agreement foresees that a state that has the historic glory of the ruler of the seas and oceans will become our main partner in the construction of naval bases, the construction of a national fleet. For another three or four years, we could have dreamed of it, and today I want to thank you for the fact that the dreams of Ukrainian sea romantics and patriots thanks to the President of Ukraine, thanks to the Ministry of Defence, thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are becoming a reality. And soon we will be able not only to protect ourselves in the near sea, but also to demonstrate a proudly yellow and blue flag in the open sea. I urge my colleagues to support the ratification of this agreement, and I am proud that today in the Ukrainian Parliament I have every reason to say, "God save the Queen." And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u165	Heroic glory! The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Ustinovy Alexandri Yuriovni, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u166	Please give Bobrovska Solomia a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u167	Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u168	I would say that God would protect the Ukrainian people and the heads of the Ukrainian people. that these heads may be wise. And I think it would be the right story to start talking about creation, as it used to be in the 43rd year, creating an anti-Cremile bloc of nations, there's nothing new, a cyclical story, and Britain, certainly, as it was then in World War II, and today plays a critical role in resisting the Kremlin. Of course, this one. Today's ratification is, of course, overwhelming for the state and for the development of the Navy. And finally, in recent years, we're starting to talk about Ukraine as a maritime state. Under this agreement, which is actually the opening of a memorandum that was signed a year and a half ago, we have it on the way out. We should have about eight rocket boats, some of which will be built in Ukraine. I think we have to go to this because the attention that is actually missing from the shipbuilding sector, except for the private sector, is extremely low in Ukraine. I would very much like the Deputy Prime Minister of Strategic Industry to pay attention to this, to look at the southern areas that rust is standing, abandoned by state enterprises where they were built. There were huge scales where thousands of people worked, today they would regain jobs, and they would restore shipbuilding in Ukraine. Well, and, of course, I feel bad for our Naval Force, and they're waiting for this ratification, and they want us not only to stand on the Frigate of the Sea Force on Independence Day, which is constantly in repair, but finally on the full-scale fleet of our Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u169	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u170	Please give the word to Ivanni Orestovni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u171	Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze. Dear colleagues, please release the passage in the corridors so that the national deputies can make their way to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Obviously we will support this ratification, and obviously we join in saying thanks to Britain for all the military assistance and willingness to help build up our forces not only the Navy, but also, in fact, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which they provide today and what leadership they show in the world. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, here in Ukraine, we also need to mobilize our internal efforts to rebuild our naval forces, and to do so we need to stop persecuting those leaders of enterprises and those military personnel who have taken the responsibility of building boats, building ships for our naval forces at a time when the most difficult times have passed in the beginning of the war. And stop persecuting those who have endorsed these political decisions in order to protect us from the sea. And I would also like to make sure that we don't just move in this Parliament, as you proposed and voted in committee mode, but work here in plenary mode, work to finally redirect some of the funds that you want to use for your theft to what the state needs today, especially for the needs of the Armed Forces, including our naval defenders. So yes, we do! But stop your political attacks inside the country, stop destroying the country from the inside, and let us both protect it internally and with the help of our partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u173	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Burmich. Anatoly Pavlovich, please. Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, me and our party have always advocated strengthening sovereignty, for a strong country, for strong Armed Forces, but they can be built in a different and different way. We believe that this strengthening of our Armed Forces is largely done at the expense of our manufacturer, the Ukrainian manufacturer. At Santala’s factories, you remember that ships, even aircraft, were once better in the world. Today, we do not know how much we do not know. We once bought, you know, ice cream that was written down in Britain for 10 million. This may be of great benefit to us. Today, according to the media, we are receiving help, so - called aid, but only for our money and we do not know how much more expensive, written - down and semiwritten old equipment is. If they are friends, they should help us at least for free. We're for strengthening our Armed Forces, we're for building our fleet, but let's support our manufacturer. Let's give this money because it's our money that we're paying, and it's not someone who's investing, it's not going to be confusing, it's going to be our manufacturers, it's going to be our engineers, it's going to be our employees, it's going to be paying taxes and creating jobs, and feeding their families, not feeding the queen. I don't think she's hungry anyway. That's why we're for strengthening, but for building up and for strengthening our native manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, who else would like to speak? Please, Gregory Restless.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will support the ratification of this agreement and support it for two reasons. First, we know that a true friend is in trouble. As the United Kingdom is now doing, coming to help and strengthening Ukraine's defence potential, especially with regard to the Navy, this is an example for other countries to imitate. But there is another country, another one that needs to be mentioned. It's not just weapons, it's political unity. During World War II, the British government demonstrated that a government of national unity was being created during a deadly threat. Today is the fourth day after the "Paternity" initiative and the direct appeal to the President to create such a government. We haven't heard back from the President yet. It's time to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion, is there anyone else who would like to speak? We're done here. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on official credit support for the development of the capabilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (project No. 0143). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:04:28]] For 275 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Let's move on. The next bill is the bill (this second reading), the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the order of development, adoption and implementation of the aviation rules of Ukraine (project registration number 3683). I invite the head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure of Paul’s Peter Ivanovich to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist? They will, won't they? Alone? One change for you. And you have two, right? Please, please, Vladimir Mikhajlovich Vjatrović. Call the repair number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u178	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Amendment number two. A year ago, Parliament failed this project because it changed the Language Act, which allowed any normative act to be issued in non-Ukrainian. There's no longer a working version of this, but there's still the phrase that the plane is correct, and I quote, "you can accept the original language." My amendment proposes that these words be deleted, and that is what the conclusions of the GNEU and the judiciary require, because this phrase violates a number of articles of the Constitution. If the authors were referring to the application of EU air traffic regulations in Ukraine, such as Western medical protocols, then this should be the case. Normative acts can be issued exclusively in Ukrainian. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u179	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u180	Good afternoon, colleagues! Pavlovsky Peter, "Serial of the People" faction. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that on October 12, 2021, Ukraine and the EU signed the Agreement on the Sharing of Aviation Space, i.e. Airways. The bill had to be preceded by an agreement, but the Supreme Council had failed to accept it, so the adoption of the bill was in time. As for the position of the committee on this point, I would like to point out that the aviation rules are a set of regulatory acts regulating aviation activities, and the exclusion provided for in the bill concerns standards and requirements for the certification, supervision and operation of aircraft. In the European Union they are presented on hundreds of pages in English and in order to be accurate in their treatment, we propose that aviation rules which.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I would like to make an amendment to the number 2 of the People’s Deputy, Váterović. She's been rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please vote. [[14:07:44]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Evtushek, I understand, 4 amendments. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u182	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Yes, indeed, the 4 amendments in which I prescribed "the aviation rules of Ukraine, developed in accordance with the regulatory acts of the European Aviation Safety Agency, which contain standards and requirements for the certification, supervision and operation of aircraft, are the regulatory and technical documents adopted and registered in accordance with the order established by Ukraine's legislation." It's about language, but the committee, unfortunately, prescribed this rule in the part "it's regulatory and technical documents and can be accepted in the original language." Please, Mr. Head, correct and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u183	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u184	The position of the committee is similar to the position I expressed with regard to the appeal of my colleague, Vátarović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then I'm putting 4 amendments to the vote. This is the authorship of the national deputy Eutuska. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:21]] For-78 The decision is not taken. And you wanted another one, didn't you, Sergey Mikolayovich? Now. No one else but Sergio Mikolaiovich Evtushka will insist? They won't, will they? You will, won't you, Yuri Anatolyovich? Oh, you want to press the bill button, I get it. 11, yeah, I get it right, don't I? Please call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I ask that amendment 12, which contains "part two of the Ukrainian Act on Standardization" after the words "building standards", be supplemented by the words "aircraft rules of Ukraine developed in accordance with the regulations of the European Aviation Safety Agency which contain the provisions of standards and requirements for the certification of the supervision and operation of aircraft and are regulatory and technical documents adopted and registered in accordance with the order established by Ukraine's legislation." Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u187	I'm betting on the vote of the 12th Amendment of the People's Deputy Eutushka. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:42]] For-75 The decision is not taken. All who wanted to make adjustments. There are no more suggestions, so let us move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the order of development, adoption and implementation of the aviation rules of Ukraine (project registration number 3683). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:11:35]] For 278 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, before we move on to the next one, I have a letter from everyone signed by all the leaders of factions and groups. It sounds like this. According to part two of article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure, if necessary, after possible reduced discussion by the majority of the votes of the national deputies from the constitutional composition, a decision is taken on a one-time ad hoc procedure for the replacement of the monthly, weekly or dayly work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the need to listen to information from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Health, and in connection with the difficult epidemiological situation regarding the spread of COVID-19 and taking into account the agreed position of the MPs and groups, we ask you to put to the vote the next proposal regarding the order of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 28 January 2022, tomorrow. From 10 to 12 hold an hour of questions to the government, expand it in time. Then from 12:00 to 12:30 p.m. to announce the announcement of parliamentary motions without a decision, at 12:30 p.m. the closing of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Dear colleagues, this is because a letter of agreement, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:13:16]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Please use Motovilover Andry Viktorovich's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u188	I ask you to put it to a vote and remove Law 6507 in response to the need for further consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? The next bill was to be 6,507. His author, the national deputy Motovilovite, asks to vote and remove him immediately because they still need to consult. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's an offer. Okay. I'm asking. Then, if. Then let's take one minute who wants it, okay? Then, please, Coltunovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u190	Mr. Head, you can sit down. Mr. Golovo, 6507 is a bill that kills the coal sector of Ukraine, kills the appropriate mines, and in fact makes it impossible for Ukraine to remain viable. Such a law should: (a) be considered after the conclusion of the anticorruption committee. He's gone. In the future, such documents should also not fall here as those that conflict with national energy and economic interests. That's why I'm offering it. You vote him down, we reject him. And my wish never again in my life to impose such, not to vote on draft laws that would kill the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u191	Mikhailo Volinec, please, 1 minute, then Jaroslav Železniak, 1 minute, and then Mikhailo Bondar, 1 minute. And we're moving on. Oh, and I see. And the people's deputy, Greeb, is one minute. And we're going to vote for this procedure. Please, Michael Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u192	Mr. Ruslan, thank you. First of all, it's a corruption bill. Throughout the history of the fourth call in Parliament, I have not seen such insolence as to carry on such corruption and to cover myself with law. Not only are coal industries to be privatized. The second part of the Small Privatization Act provides for a population of up to 100. This, for example, on the Capital mine requires the release of 2,000, 199 people, and in the Centrenergo, 7,000,900 people have to be released in order to bring about a small privatization of the entire complex. Then it is envisaged that the land will actually be transferred to ownership, not just in administration, to ownership. And it's supposed to privatize these enterprises with whole complexes. This is contrary to all basic laws. This is the basis of the Janukovic bill, which was written under his son, on the characteristics of the privatization of coal enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u193	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, then Mikhailo Leontijovich Bondar, and then Mrs. Grib, and we will proceed to the vote for this procedure. Please, Iron Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u194	There is, of course, an uncontrollable desire for another bill from the authorities to fail. But I want to point out that we have a unique situation. For the first time in a long time, Motovílovec offered not to work anymore, but rather to work less. At least we can support that idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u195	Please, Bondar Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u196	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, someone wanted to see the possibility of bankrupting coal companies come into effect as of January 1, 2022. And I thank all colleagues who failed this opportunity by voting on the bankruptcy of coal companies by 2024. And then, somehow, there's this bill here that they don't give up hope for to take over the coal companies. This whole period of time, all two and a half years, these coal companies were destroyed, they weren't invested, it was specially made by the power to then capture not only the enterprises themselves, but also the territories where they are located. We're breaking this bill now, not voting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u197	So there's an offer not to put it at all. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, I have to make this offer, dear colleagues. Please, People's Deputy Greeb. And then there's Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, very many questions, I have not seen the role of the local authorities as to how privatization will go. You and I understand when we have the process of decarbonization today in Ukraine and around the world, the mines are going to shut down, they're just going to cut metal out of them, and all the problems are going to be on the shoulders of the communities. Thus, this bill is by no means acceptable. We need to think about a fair transformation, first of all, how will communities live on, what will miners do if they lose their jobs? So if you'll excuse me, it's just a pattern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u199	Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, and let us proceed to the vote for the proposal of the national deputy Motovilovitsa. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, last plenary week or not, I spent time in Lugansk and Donetsk meeting with miners. The key issue they're asking our Parliament to resolve is the repayment of the debt on wages. On December 16, we voted in our first reading of this debt issue, and most of us did not listen, promising to do so in the first plenary week. Today is the end of Thursday's workday, tomorrow's two hours' workday, and you know we're going to quarantine on Tuesday. I demand that we return to this question. There was a budget committee meeting yesterday, and there was no close question. Call the Committee on Budgets, Victoria Grib registered a letter signed by a large number of national deputies. Let's settle their debt, it's growing, and it's now 2.5 billion dollars. 320 dollars we buy from abroad, and we can't pay our miners 2,100.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u201	Thank you. Still Camelchuk, and after that, we're moving on. Please, Yuri Camelchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u202	Yury Kamelchuk, city of Czervonograd, mining region, Lvivščina Indeed, this bill needs to be worked out in great detail, taking into account many things. Because it is not possible for all mining enterprises to connect with the Centrenergo on the same terms. And what's more, I think it's a very complex question to consider, so it's no good to rush now. Realize that when certain businesses are closed and businesses are not connected, even if they are always profitable, you need to understand what will happen to others. And this has to be a comprehensive program of transformation of regions, reform of the coal sector in general, and then privatization of individual enterprises. But it's clean, it's quiet and it's clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we're moving to a vote on the proposal of the Motovilovt people's deputy now to withdraw Bill 6507 and not to consider it at all today, we're taking it off the table. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Once again, the proposal of the Motovilovite people's deputy to withdraw Bill 6507 from today's agenda. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:21:41]] For 228 Decision taken. We are now this bill, show the factions, we are not considering the bill today. The next bill, 6133, is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the privatization of coal companies and the sale of arrested property. One second, I'm sorry, I'm gonna flip the page. 6133, I'm sorry, this is not the bill. That's not him, that's not him, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, 6133. 6133, this is a draft of the Law amending the Law on Oil and Gas on the Identification of Critical Gas Repositories and Critical Motorway Pipeways for the Transport of Gas. We still have a few ritual votes to make, dear colleagues. Project registration number 6133. First of all, I would like to ask you to vote now on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the session, and we need to get 226 votes. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:23:21]] For 252 I further propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this 613 plenary session. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:23:46]] For 245 Decision taken. And I'd like to take a brief look at Bill 6133. Please vote. [[14:24:11]] For 236 Decision taken. I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zupánin Andriy Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, there is an offer not to discuss this law. Oh, no? I'm sorry, then. Please, Andrew Viktorovich, 2 minutes, 4 minutes, both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u204	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Andrew Zupanin, "Serial of the People" faction. A little over two years ago, we voted in the hall with you on a law that dealt with the separation of the Ukrainian gas transport system and its transfer to the new state enterprise. Then there were a lot of accusations from this rostrum that we're losing our highest value, that the state is going to lose $3 billion a year, and that we're spiking our gas transport system with investments to bankrupt it. However, it was not what it seemed. For more than two years, the GTS Operator has been one of the largest taxpayers in Ukraine and one of the best employers. Today, an equally important law is the law on the effective use of state property and the economy of budgetary resources. However, you will likely be told stories again. So there are only a few reasons why I should be trusted this time. The law has two key goals. First of all, it's to optimize the power of Ukraine's gas transport system and second of all. Under restricted transit conditions, and secondly, to regulate the operation of critical underground gas repositories. This is necessary in the light of a few circumstances. In 2021, the transit of gas into Ukraine amounted to 40 billion cubic metres at the design capacity of our system of 146 billion. The last three years of transit have been declining, but the cost of maintaining a system that is not operational is increasing. The cost of maintaining GTS is included in the tariff, and the adoption of this law is necessary so that these costs do not fall on the shoulders of Ukrainian consumers. About the underground gas dumps. Today, there are 12 of them, and among them is the Olish’s Refuge. His work since 2013 is unprofitable, but there is no mechanism to get him out of operation at the legislative level. This law is not about someone cutting or drinking a pipe, it's not about the state losing a pipe or underground gas vault, it's not about us losing revenue from transit or gas storage. This law on temporary conservation of excess power of Ukrainian GTS, on optimizing the operation of separate gas depots, on the effective use of state property, on the economy of budgetary resources and on the non-translating of excess costs on the shoulders of Ukrainian consumers. From myself, from the team of authors, I ask you to support and vote. Now for the committee's decision. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services, at its meeting on 15 December 2021, reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on Oil and Gas on the definition of critical gas and critical gas pipelines (registration No. 6133), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Andrey Zupanin, Yuri Kamelchuk and Andrey Gerus. As a result of the discussion at its meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Oil and Gas Act on the definition of critical gas depots and critical gas pipelines to be included in the agenda of the daily session and the results of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Colleagues, please support, this is an important law. Vote with a green button. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u205	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur to head the Committee on Energy and Housing Services. Oh, you're done, I'm sorry, yes. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Fedina Sofia Romanovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u206	Please give my word to my colleague Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u207	Mikhailo Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u208	Good afternoon, dear fellows! "European Solidarity" will abstain from voting for this bill for one simple reason. The potentials of our gas transport system are to be developed in full volumes, so there are all the preconditions. And we see that, unfortunately, it's not time for us to adopt such bills that will limit the possibility of our state gas shelters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u209	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kaptielov Roman Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u210	Please pass on the word to Andrey Gerus,
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u211	Andrew Herus, please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill on how the state can be an effective manager of its assets, how the state can effectively manage state-owned enterprises and optimize their activities in such a way that state-owned enterprises do not over-expenditure. In this case, when we adopt this bill, the cost of state-owned enterprises can be reduced by a billion dollars. Those costs that are now incurred for objects and assets that are not actually used in operational activities and that do not participate in gas transit and do not participate in gas storage. So let's support this bill and show that the state can make decisions so that state assets function effectively and optimally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u213	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u214	Roman Costenko, Voice Party. Inni Sussoon, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u215	Please, Inna Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u216	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, we will support this bill. It seems to me that now is not the time for any political speculation, now we must unite and work together to ensure Ukraine's national interests. And so it has happened that, including the key in this context, is the question of a gas transport operator. The operator is now making every effort to ensure that Ukraine is a reliable gas transitor to the European Union. We need to listen to the operator's position, and the operator is convinced that at the moment we need to minimize the additional costs that arise. Instead, I repeat, I am a reliable gas transitor to the European Union. And that's actually why this bill was designed. According to an operator who has been briefed at a committee meeting, the adoption of this law will allow the operator to save up to 3 billion dollars per year, which is, in fact, particularly important in the context of a constant reduction in transit. We must, of course, continue to fight for the Ukrainian gas transport system. We're like a state at all levels, and we're like national MPs, and the government, and the President has to fight to keep the North Stream 2 going. And part of this fight is to get the operator to work, so I really hope that the hall will support this bill. But at the same time, it doesn't mean that we have to ignore other challenges that are in the energy sector. I want to remind you that literally earlier this week, the Vice President's Chief of Staff went to a press conference and said that the situation in the energy field is completely under control. The second day after that, we shut down two blocks of nuclear power plants. Obviously, the situation is out of control. And now I would like to look to the government to think about how to make sure that the next heating season of Ukraine does not go into the threatened state that we are in today. And the bill needs to be supported, hopefully, so will the support of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u217	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u218	Please give the floor to Timoshenko Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u219	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I would like those in this room to know what this bill is about. This bill on the final destruction of our gas transport system and our gas repositories. At first, they were dismembered because of the enbandling you know that the state is now practically free from the use of the gas transport system or the operation of gas repositories. And now it starts essentially because of this law, let's say, the theft of everything that was owned by the state and that was related to gas storage and the gas transport system. You see how Grant boys and girls are fighting for this "beautiful" law right now. I want, of course, there's no point in this Parliament calling on someone's conscience, it doesn't make any sense, because here, apart from the wages in the envelopes, no one is interested, or the contractors that are being made behind the Ukrainian people's back. But I want the people who are still watching this Council on TV to know that this law, after we've been affected by the gas system and the gas depots, is now starting to essentially divide between their people everything that our gas system and our shelters have. So I want to call on all the MPs who are at least a little bit in the position of the national interests of Ukraine, who, although perhaps a little by night, are not sleeping from what you have made in the state, to vote against this law, because this law destroys the remaining state property and national interests in the gas transport system and the priceless property we own -- gas repositories. Vote "against." "Paternality" will vote "against."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u221	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u222	Thank you, Mr. Head. If leadership, after the 14th year until today, would think strategically, we would have created a consortium long ago, and in 15 years no one would have thought about building the North Stream-2. Now we have what we have, and we have to get out of what we have. But how to endure such insolence when nine people in December and most likely in January will earn $500 million a month to extract domestic gas and pay for it all by the Ukrainian industry and the industrial consumer. Industrial price index, attention, 60 percent per month. This is the December of the month. This was the last time in 1996. Why our industry doesn't get gas at market European prices at about $400, which is 12 dollars per cube, but it pays 50-60, which is a spot, not a market price for Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u223	Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u224	Thank you. I want to say that we're just reading the bills before we vote, so as you can see, "For the future" doesn't vote very much for what this room wants when we see the corruption in many of the bills that go into this session hall. But we also see the illogicality of many of the bills, and this, because we don't understand how we can refer to the assignment of an underground oil and gas repository, let's say energy transmissions made from renewable energy sources, well, it's simple. We don't understand what it's about when there's no financial justification for this bill, whether this project can increase budget expenditure, there's no corresponding conclusion of the government. And it would lead to an increase in tariffs on gas for consumers if the output costs were turned off and so forth. That's why our MP group will abstain from voting for this bill. And it urges all MP factions and groups to read the bill before voting for it. We vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, I'm asking the national MPs. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. People's deputies please take their seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Oil and Gas Act on the identification of critical gas depots and critical gas pipelines (project registration number 6133). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready? Please vote. [[14:38:34]] For 238. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next bill 5719, right? Second reading. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Accounting of Excise Taxes for the Realization of Subjects of the Retail Trade in Tobacco (Second Reading). I invite the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Helen Eugene Copanczuk. Please, Helen Eugene. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on their amendments first? Look, we're already in the middle of something. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, well, you know your revisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Friends, look, I think let's have this question with the Apparatus, at least one author is. Please, we will. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their own? No, it's not. I know they have to make adjustments for confirmation. From this information that I have, the national deputy of Železniak will make four amendments, the national deputy of Ustinanova – two amendments. Do I get it right? So please, I give the floor to Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Call the amendment number and then we'll make a decision later.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, let's start with these lines, and then we'll figure out how many rights I'm going to put on confirmation. Dear colleagues, this bill may be voted on, you may not vote, but it does apply to local excise taxes. But the Committee on Budgets, by some miracle, introduced a number of rights that do not apply at all to the subject of knowledge or to the committee, all the more so, this law. Now I want us to subtract 108. It's a change to the Banking and Banking Act, which actually makes it worse to elect independent members of the supervisory boards of banks, well, actually, I'll explain it, makes it possible to steal extra money from the budget. I have a question. How did this amendment come about in the first place? Why is it counted by the committee? And will we continue to have this practice when the budget committee licks into not knowing its own issues, this is a matter of the financial committee? Please reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u227	Please take the seat of the committee. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u228	The committee is supported by this amendment, as it is necessary to change the requirements for State representatives in the supervisory board of the State bank. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u229	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 108th Amendment of the Aristov People's Deputy, she is a committee. Aristova and other colleagues, she's counted by committee. At the same time, the National MP, Ironborn, suggests that it be put to the test. You heard the argument. I'm betting on amendment 108 for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:42:15]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 109. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, this is a similar situation. The Budget Committee in some way decided that they could enter the Tax Code. And it's not just getting into the Tax Code, it's getting VAT dropped on internal air transport by 24. I heard we have a problem with food prices. Maybe that's where you need it. I hear we have a problem buying some equipment for the military. And maybe there will be a need to cut taxes. We have an energy crisis. And I don't always agree with the idea of reducing VAT, but this is a discussion. But I'm sure I know we don't have an internal transport crisis right now. And quietly pull this line, well, it's at least very cynical. So please don't go breaking 116 articles right now, the matter of committee allocation, or rejecting this amendment. This discussion, if any, takes place only on the tax committee, which I have the honour to present. I'm asking you to reject the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u231	Thank you. The position of the committee will be or will we put it to a vote? 109th, yeah. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 109 amendments, she's been counted by the committee. At the same time, the National MP, Ironborn, asks for confirmation. So, dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 109th amendment. Please vote. [[14:44:07]] For-189 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry, Jaroslav Ivanovich, I'll give it to you. I was approached by Taras Ivanovich Batenko, and he wants out of the procedure. Yes, Taras Ivanovich? Please, Batenko, then I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u232	Dear reporter, I just have a question to ask you, according to the protocol, whether we understand correctly that at the end of this bill 5719 fell out, i.e. the Committee's budget amendment 105, which, we know, was controversial in this issue, we were trying to consider at the previous meeting, which helped the monopoly on the market for retail sale of cigarettes to satisfy its position and not give any of its competitors the opportunity to develop. Is there a corruption bill that doesn't exist in this bill, amendment number 105? Please confirm or disprove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u233	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u234	The amendment was withdrawn by the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u235	Thank you. It's for understanding to be, yes. Dear colleagues, here comes the Ironman. 15th and 23rd, I think. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, you're not the only one looking at the latest version of the table. Taras Ivanovich, the question was 103, it was really rejected. Yeah, it's rejected by the table. Now for 15 revisions. Dear colleagues, this is a very interesting exercise, which has little to do with the local budgets, and more with the issue of tobacco. This is an amendment that says that we should have a DFRD of 1.5 percent of the budget coming up. If you count it, there will be at least over 20 billion in the next year. Listen, do we really think that the DFRD is going to be so big that it's going to be further divided into districts? Are we sure we don't have the money to additionally equip the Belarus networks to help our military? And we definitely want to send this money to the districts. So I think we also have to reject this right over here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u237	Please take the position of the 15th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u238	The proposal was considered by the committee. Considers it appropriate to accept it, so I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, the 15th Amendment, she is also a national deputy of Aristov and a fellow member of the committee. At the same time, the National MP, Ironborn, asks for confirmation. I'm betting on this amendment for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:46:54]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 23. Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, thank you for canceling a lot of lines. I'm not going to bet this on confirmation. The only thing that matters is the transfer of money from the gaming business to the local budgets, which has little to do with the subject matter of the bill, but let it be. I just want to remind you that our ecclesiastical Olga Bielkova, at the time of the adoption of the Act on the Playing Business, proposed this idea. And then they said it wasn't appropriate, we couldn't, we were losing money from the government budget, and now it's coming true. I'm just saying to all my colleagues that sometimes you have to listen to the wise thoughts that even from the opposition MPs, they really do then, according to practice, they still embody you, they just lost one year. Thank you. I'm not going to bet this on confirmation, and I'm not going to be raising any more flags.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u241	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, then National Deputy Ustinov, she's offering 89th and 102nd. Am I right? Please, Alexandra Yuriovna. And then Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, 92th. And let's have another vote. Please, Alexandre.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to submit an amendment to 89 because I also don't understand what it's doing in the Tobacco Excise Bill. Because it actually applies to medical institutions and makes one institution more equal to another. We now want to make money out of the state budget on Duce, on Feofania, and they don't have to meet all the requirements that other institutions meet and are now medical. So I'm asking for confirmation. We now have a time when we should all support the medics, not just those who serve the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 89 amendments, are counted by the committee. National deputy Ustinov puts it on the stand. Please vote. [[14:49:05]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Next 102, Ustinova. Then there's 92 more, Coltunovich. And 98th, Arahami. Please, 102nd, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u244	Thank you, colleagues, another amendment that also applies to what we now have, if you know, is that 5 percent of GDP should be spent on medicine. This right now changes the Ukrainian Law on State Financial Guarantees for Medical Services and this is being cleaned up. So now we have no obligation to spend money on medicine and will be cut off each year. Instead of supporting our medics right now, as we all promised, we want to cut their funding with this remedy. So please don't support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u245	Are you sure this is about medicine? It's about vocational and technical education. Ah, the end. Because I just looked. All right, all right, I get it. Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u246	This right is consistent with the Budget Code in accordance with the State Budget Act of 2022, based on possible available funding for both state and local budgets. The Committee on Budgetary Questions therefore supported the amendment. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u247	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 102th Amendment of National MP Copanchuk, is counted by committee. At the same time, the national deputy Ustinov asks for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:50:52]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Now, please, Coltunovich 92 amendment, Arahami 98th, and we're going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, first of all, the law, and in general, I'm surprised by your unrelenting desire to collect funds and taxes from local budgets, to centralize them. The law is not to be supported once. Second, look what an interesting amendment I want you to hear. In the first paragraph, parts of the first article, 103 prime. One of the words "special government budget fund" is replaced by "state road fund." I'm sorry, do you have any money in the road fund? How many billions of dollars do you put there in the course of this year and in the previous years? I think this amendment is unacceptable. I'm asking you to put it on confirmation and fail as one that actually removes the funds from the state budget special fund. That's two. And third, last. I've made more than 20 amendments with my colleague Victor Ivanovich about the formula for the calculation in question. But somehow, the first author only goes, and the second one they included. It looks, frankly, questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u249	Thank you. Please note what Alexander Sergiyovich was talking about. It's that committee of yours, I think on the committee you might have asked the same question. Okay. Dear colleagues, 92 revisions. 92 amendments, it's counted by the committee. At the same time, National MP Koltunović asks for confirmation. I'm putting this amendment in for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:52:49]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. And final today, 98th, Arahama, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u250	Colleagues, I'd like to support 98 revisions. It introduces the responsibility of tax and treasury employees for miscalculation of excise duties into local budgets. Everyone, the Association of Cities has supported it, so I'm asking you to support it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u251	David Georgiyovich, the only thing I would ask of you. It's a 98 amendment, it's rejected. At first, I asked what was the deviation. But I realize that it came after the repairs took place. So let's do 98 revisions. The committee's dismissed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything just needs 226. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, 98th Amendment. Now, one second. David Georgievich! David Georgiyovich, maybe we won't put it on because we'll continue to open a precedent? Dear colleagues, she's just being rejected. It's not like it's counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please prepare to vote in favour of the law as a whole. I propose that the Committee adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budgets for the Accounting of Excise Taxes for the Realization of Subjects of the Small-scale Trade in Tobacco Products (project registration number 5719). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:55:58]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. Show me the factions, please. I'm going to make a second offer. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to return to the committee for further processing and re-reading. Are you ready to support this proposal? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:56:44]] For 232 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, it's a difficult day, I'd say. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Please. First Gerasimov, then Bondarenko. We have three minutes left. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, I think that we and the committee head are going to talk about the same thing. I now propose to vote without discussion, as I understand it, all factions support the bill on the Social Program of Drinking Water of Ukraine. Thank you. It's 5723.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-27-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, will it not be discussed? Yeah, now, what's the number again? 5723, right? It's a second reading, right? Will there be no objection, dear colleagues? It won't? There's a denial. He says she has a denial. And Shufrich. Yes, Nestor Ivanovich, do you also have a objection? You've got it. You're just setting up the layout, right? Guys, I can't figure out what, we've got two minutes left, we can either take it now, or I'm closing today's session. Dear colleagues, in that case, I apologize, there must be consensus or order. Therefore, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
