ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we will now welcome the delegation. But let's do the registration procedures first so we can open the meetings. And then I'll invite our colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for electronic registration. I'll remind you, once the registration is started, you need to press the sensor button along with the green "Z" and keep it up until the end of the registration. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. [[10:03:19]] There are 160 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National MPs, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Now, colleagues. In Ukraine, with an official visit, the Polish parliamentary delegation is headed by Professor Tomasz Grodzki, a Polish member of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] The delegation also includes Senate Deputy Marshals Bogdan Borusevich, Marek Penk, Michal Kaminsky and other senators and officials. The Polish delegation is now in the meeting room of the Supreme Council. Today we are witnessing unprecedented parliamentary support from our friendly Poland. Dear colleagues, Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the distinguished professor Tomasz Grodzki expressed his desire to address the Supreme Council with a short talk. If there is no objection among the national deputies, I invite a distinguished guest to the rostrum for a brief presentation. Is it accepted? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, with great pleasure, the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Professor Thomas Grodzki, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Tomasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear friends, I'm sorry if I make mistakes, but with respect, I'll try to speak English to you. [[Applause]] I don't have Ukrainian roots, my whole family is from Western Poland. Then I live in Szczecin, where the cruel fates of war have left many of your countrymen, with whom for several generations we have built a unique city, filled with a spirit of freedom, friendship, and tolerance. Whether it is possible because we were not afraid to seek the truth, knowing both the glorious and the dark pages of our history. I have many friends with the Ukrainian lineage, but even if I did not have any ties with Ukraine, I would still come here as a Polish without hesitation, under the moral obligation to support my friends. [[Applause]] There's this saying, "Friends know each other in trouble." That's why we came here with such a wide delegation. Notice that there are representatives of various political forces in Poland who often have strong political disputes among themselves, but we are the only ones in the issue of solidarity and support for the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] In a delegation of several vice marshals and famous senators, including the legend of the Polish opposition to the communist times of Marshal Borusevich. [[Applause]] We know very well what it means to enslave the people and the Soviet yoke from which we were freed 30 years ago. We understand how few people are meant to be deprived of sovereignty, and even in the darkest years of our history, the whole territory divided by invaders. So I want to assure you from the bottom of my heart, on my behalf, on behalf of the entire delegation and on behalf of the entire Polish people, that we will do everything in the power of the senators of the Polish Parliament, so that no one dares to violate Ukraine's sovereignty. [[Applause]] So that no one dares to violate the territorial integrity and the right of the Ukrainian people to self - determination. You can count on us as checked friends. [[Applause]] Ukraine is not dead yet! May peace and friendship live among our peoples. May the free Ukraine live!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u3	[[Expression in Foreign Language]] [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the distinguished guests for participating in today's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for the unanimity of support by the Polish State at all political levels, including at the level of parliament, independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague of the national deputy of the country Sofia Romanovna Fedina of the faction "European Solidarity". [[Applause]] We wish you strong health, victorious work, for the benefit of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there has been a break with the replacement of the factions of the political party "Slut of the People" and the MPs' Party for the Future. Kowalczuk. Right? Okay. Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u5	Alexander Kowalczuk, Plaintish. We are all witnesses of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, which is ongoing. The situation has been escalating in recent months, and the number of Russian troops along the border of Ukraine in the occupied Crimea and Belarus is alarmingly increasing. Unfortunately, all Russian officials' allegations of non-intention to attack Ukraine are no more than false propaganda, circulated by Russian media, footage and reports of the withdrawal of troops from the border with Ukraine, according to Ukrainian intelligence, and the intelligence of the partner states is a fairy tale. In recent days, Ukraine has also become the target of cyberspace attacks leading to Russia. Russia is carrying out dangerous, unfriendly activities in the Black Sea and Azov Seas, which cannot be treated differently than the attempt to block Ukrainian ports. With special cynicism, Russian occupying forces fired a shell at Stanitsa Luganska’s settlement site, which in Luhansk, with heavy artillery weapons of calibre 122 millimeters, the enemy fired 32 shells. The shells hit the nursery where the children were at that time. As a result of the shooting, three children’s garden workers were injured. U.S. forces quickly evacuated children and teachers into hiding. The school in Vrubovka was also shot, where children were also taking classes at that time. Thank God for the loss of students and teachers. In this village, too, infrastructure has been destroyed. These outright acts of terrorism against peaceful people being carried out by the Russian army, an army commanded by Russian officers armed and financed by Russia. Russia has traditionally tried to cynically transfer responsibility for these crimes to Ukraine and our Armed Forces. In these difficult days, we reaffirm our commitment to finding diplomatic solutions to the conflict that the Russian Federation has begun. We are also ready to defend ourselves and will not allow us to carry out military provocations against Ukrainian civilians and our infrastructure without penalty. We urge the Armed Forces to continue to exercise vigilance and restraint, and if necessary to defend the lives of Ukrainians in the territory of our country. But given today's brutal terrorist attacks on children by Russian mercenaries, we urge the world to step up sanctions against Putin and his environment now, immediately. We call on the parliaments of the countries of the civilized world to respond decisively and cruelly to the actions of the Russian terrorist forces. They should know everything about the shooting of a kindergarten.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, pursuant to article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday at 10 a.m. "hour of questions to the Government". On Monday at the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we decided to increase today the duration of the "hour of questions to the Government" to two hours and to listen to the "hour of questions to the government" of the following information. Information from the Finance Minister of Ukraine on the provision of financial resources for issues that need to be addressed urgently. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, let's go. Let me read out how we're going to move and then out of procedure ladies. Yes, please. Information provided by the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the situation in Ukraine's borders, its descalement and the state of assembly of the Territorial Defence Force. Information from the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of energy security in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the next order is proposed for the "hour of questions to the Government": a report by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine - up to 20 minutes, a report by the Minister of Defence of Ukraine - in 20 minutes, a report by the Prime Minister of Ukraine - in 20 minutes, a response by the rapporteurs to questions from MPs and groups - up to 21 minutes, the Prime Minister's replies and government members to questions from Ukrainian national deputies - to 30 minutes. I'll be there in two hours. Please, from the Fedin procedure. Or Gerasimov? Please, Fedina from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, for starters, today, February 18th, the day of the start of the shooting of peaceful playgrounds at the Mayan Independence Institute. And it would be appropriate to honor them with a moment of silence. But I would also very much like to immediately adopt Bill 6454, which is so requested by the House of the Heroes of the Sky of Sotany, which increases the investigation period and will ensure that all the murderers of Maidan can be punished. I very much ask that this Bill 6454 be put to the vote as soon as possible in the session hall and that we actually honor the Heroes of Heaven, by punishing their murderers. I declare a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u8	Thank you. Please sit down. You know, we had a whole bunch of meetings yesterday, and I just want to inform a colleague of Parliament, and yesterday we had the opportunity to meet the families of the dead heroes who were protecting Ukraine, and we also had the opportunity to meet the families of the Heroes of the Heavenly Sotney. We've spoken all the questions, including Bill 6454, about others. We will do our utmost to get these bills to the Parliament Hall as soon as possible and to be voted on as soon as possible. In addition, I would like to inform you that on Tuesday in the Parliament Hall during our plenary session there will be invited families of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, and they will also participate in the Parliament meeting. In addition, we agreed to work on a series of legislative initiatives by the new ones that brought both the families of the Heroes of Heaven to the hundreds and the families of the fallen Heroes in the war. We will definitely work together and do everything we can to ensure that Parliament fulfils its mission -- to grant status, after giving social protection to these categories of people. So I am deeply grateful to all who participated in the meeting yesterday, which is also the First Vicespoker, and the Vicespoker, and the heads of the committees. And I think we did an effective road map yesterday. Thank you. From Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u9	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I'm talking about priority. Today, every Ukrainian, especially after yesterday’s UN Radbez meeting, is living in danger, awaiting a message, including from the Ukrainian authorities, that situation. And I think financial finance may be a priority for someone, but the first question would be to inform the Minister of Defense what's going on in the state and how the Armed Forces are ready for the challenges facing the Ukrainian society today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u10	Thank you, Mikhailovich. I think the proposal is absolutely correct, and we will begin then, if possible, with the Minister of Defense, after this Minister of Finance, after this Prime Minister. No objections, dear fellows? Then, dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum to report on the situation on the borders of Ukraine, its deescalation and the status of the territorial defence force of Ukrainian Defence Minister Alexia Yuriovich Reznikova. In 20 minutes, Alexy Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u11	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, distinguished national MPs! Because the density of events is very high right now, I want to draw your attention to the general context of what's going on, as well as the basic challenges. I will begin with the situation in the area of operation of the United Nations. What Is Needed to Understand? Yesterday, there were anomalous events that were markedly different from what had happened since the beginning of the year, and our task was to contain this anomaly so that it wouldn't become an escalation prologue. From January 1st to February 16th, including on the line of contact in Donetsk and Lugansk areas from the area temporarily occupied by Russia, 107 attacks on the positions of our soldiers were recorded, and 4 shots were fired at populated sites, including 22 times from the mine-banned arms agreements. Usually, there were between two and five violations per day, with periods of few days when no shots were fired or in 30 days none of our soldiers were killed. In contrast, on February 17, the enemy fired 60 shots, 43 of them from prohibited weapons, using artillery, mortars, grenade launchers, tanks, and PTSD. The shootings began about five o’clock in the morning, and the breaks lasted until 14 o’clock, and then there was a burst about 22 o’clock again. They took place almost all the way across the line, from the Lugansk-Standina to the Shirokhina. In general, illegal military formations in Russia under control led to fire in the area of 30 Ukrainian populaces. I'm paying attention to the nature of these shootings. About nine o’clock in the morning, one of the shells was placed in a nursery building in the Lugansk Stanica, where there were 20 children, 18 workers. Fortunately, the children were unharmed, and three coworkers were injured. At 9:50 a.m., a shell fell near a bus stop near the school. About 10:30 p.m., during the fire on the village of Vrubík near Pázna, Luhanščina, a projectile fell into the courtyard of the Vrubívský lice. At the time of the shooting, there were 30 students and 14 staff. Amazingly, children and educators were forced to hide in the basement because the shooting lasted. Ten homes were damaged in Vrubówka. A family of four, including an elderly woman and a child, was demolished in Novozovovka, which is also near the Dangerous House. They were just lucky they weren't home. In total, tens of dwellings were run out of light and gas. Three of our fighters were injured yesterday as a result of the enemy’s actions and another was injured. But as you can see, the Russian command was a powerful blow against educational institutions and housing. The main target of the attack was the peaceful population. It's a war crime and an open provocation that we've repeatedly warned about as a possible escalation scenario. Convinced that one of the reasons for this massive provocation was yesterday’s UN Security Council meeting, which was dedicated to the Minsk Accords. It's a traditional Russian strategy: always before the tripartite contact group, before the Normandy meeting, before any important international event involving the Russian-Ukrainian war, there's an incident in place to form a background that the Russian side sees as beneficial. Yesterday morning Russian propagandists were actively disseminating fairy tales about the shootings of a kindergarten in the Lugansk Stanica, indicating that this garden was in a temporarily occupied area. It was likely that our armies would break the deal and give rise to accusations of attacks on peaceful people. But the next time they made a mistake, their lies were quickly corrected. I want to thank all our fighters and command them for their endurance. Ukraine acted clearly within the limits of the agreements and procedures reached. First, with the involvement of the OSCE SMS, there was an active coordination mechanism in line with measures to strengthen the ceasefire. It was agreed, as you recall, on July 22, 2020. Secondly, our delegation in the Tripartite Contact Group has called on the focal points of the OSCE Tripartite Contact with an immediate call to the Security Working Group without delay, and then the TCG meeting on ceasefire violations. Also, in collaboration with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, colleagues from other departments quickly arranged for a group of journalists, including the international media, to Stanica Luhanské, to see the kindergarten for themselves. As a result, the enemy received a direct opposite picture than expected. Now the whole world will know who is ruining the peace of Donbas. At ten o'clock in the morning, I was changing while I was preparing for you, changing data every hour, getting 20 shots fixed by 10 o'clock, and we reactivated all the appropriate mechanisms to stop the fire. To emphasize, in these days we are constantly confronted with provocations: shootings, cyberattacks, dangerous aviation maneuvers, mobile withdrawals. Our job is not to do what the Russian Federation urges us to do, to do away with it, but to keep our heads cold, because provocations will not stop. The Kremlin still prepares a justification for the recognition of the ORDLO by a script that worked in Georgia, regardless of whether it would be implemented, just to have this option on the table. Yesterday about 9:40 p.m., the Lugansk Station was again shot, a gasogine and a residential building were damaged. They shot Happy, Dangerous, Sands. In the ORDLO area late at night, the occupying administration at night intimidated people that the Ukrainian Armed Forces were already preparing for the attack. We checked it with the OSCE observers, in fact, there was no room in the streets, it was once again the fairy-tale information work of the occupation regime. On the other hand, Ukraine is stepping up its defense, but we have no intention of doing anything forceful about the ORDLO or the Crimea. We're going to take a political diplomatic path, because there's our citizens, and we're not going to put them in danger. I address the inhabitants of Lugansk, Donetsk, Alchevsk, Gorlovka, Yasinavato and other cities. People, do not be afraid, not Ukraine, your enemy, but those who seem to be hiding behind your walls, and those who seem to want to protect you from Ukraine. Don't believe the rumors of the Ukrainian offensive. The Ukrainian army is ready for any defence developments. Now about the situation around the Ukrainian borders. First of all, we don't support the Russian side's withdrawal statement, it doesn't happen, there's movement of forces and resources. Secondly, we're currently looking at Russian troops, which account for about 129 thousand ground troops, and together with marine and aviation components, they account for about 149 thousand. Since Russian education in Belarus, other regions, and the Black Sea are in active phase, the main mass of troops has already been pulled together. We expect a few thousand more to be involved in the coming days. Similarly, we expect three more ships to enter the Black Sea. Thirdly, at the same time as military training in Russia, Rosgward's training is ongoing. This component is also in the field of attention. Our intelligence sees all the movements that may pose a potential threat to Ukraine. Every plane, helicopter or tank unit, we see them. We are in constant contact with our international partners and are receiving confirmation of such information. And if I make that point, now you can have different data and different dates and different scenarios, but all of these scenarios, the Ukrainian Army has calculated and is ready for them. We do not minimize the threat in any way, but the probability of large-scale escalation is still viewed as low in relation to the invasion of Ukraine as a whole. Our efforts are focused on maximizing readiness. Now, let's say that there are different areas where the Ukrainian Armed Forces are being trained, Zamel-2022. The authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs have already conducted low-level training, the Ukrainian Security Service is constantly training, and the territorial defence force, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, is on its way. Now the main question is how to set up locations in the regions. We work with local authorities and self - government agencies, and a number of regions of cities have already approved their programs to promote territorial defence, including voting at many local councils’ sessions for financial assistance. I thank them for their support, and at the same time I ask those local leaders who are still hesitant about the allocation and placement of locations, to at least make decisions, because territorial defense is a common issue of the army and the community. Regarding the international dimension. By now we have received over 2,000 tons of aid in the form of modern weapons, ammunition, and armory. We only took 31 flights. And it's not over yet. Last year. I'm sorry, last time I talked about javelins and enlavi, we already have "stingers." All the defensive weapons are already in the army, and our soldiers have already mastered this arsenal. A dialogue is conducted not only on weapons but also on various instruments of descalement. So let's say this Monday I had a very important conversation with my Belarusian counterpart, Minister of Defense Victor Krenyn. I've said it many times and I'm not tired of saying it: Belarus is a special country for us, the Belarusian people are very close to us. No aggression against Belarus on the part of Ukraine can be in principle, for which we will be cursed by our descendants. That's why I'm in favour of dialogue and confidence-building between defense agencies. I am grateful to Minister Kreenin for sharing this approach. During the conversation, we immediately agreed on a series of practical steps. In particular, the Ukrainian defence attaché attended a study in Belarus the next day after our dialogue. On February 16, we received a visit from the Belarusian attaché of defense, who observed our teachings. All these actions have been carried out in accordance with the Treaty between the Government of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus since 2001. Tomorrow, February 19th, our attaché is invited to the finals of Russian-Belarus Studies "The Union of Decisions – 2022". In addition to cooperation, at the attaché level, we agreed with the Belarusian counterpart on the introduction of permanent communication channels at the headquarters level and directly at the ministerial level so that we can quickly get in touch and get information, eliminate an incident. For example, if an intelligence officer sees the movement of a long - range weapon or, say, the construction of a Ponton near our border to get an answer. I am convinced that this is important for maintaining and strengthening good neighbourly relations. This connection exists, we get information. Yesterday, I took part in a North Atlantic Council meeting at the level of the defence ministers of NATO member states. Our fellow minister of defense of Georgia was also invited there. It was on the background of the sharpness in the east, and I informed my colleague about the shooting of a kindergarten. I also shared our security assessments and our expectations of the Alliance. This is a very important dialogue. And I hope that Ukraine will be able not only to continue it at the NATO summit in Madrid, but I have received clear answers about the perspective of integration. Now I would like to stop at a question that is of fundamental importance to our defense. Over the course of the year, the Russian Federation has already brought a large number of troops to Ukraine’s borders for a second time and is demonstratively threatening escalation. At the international level, Moscow is putting up a noticeably unacceptable ultimatum such as the dismantling of NATO in 14 countries. This is also true of the requirements to disarm the three friendly Baltic countries almost entirely and to increase the pressure on Poland. As you can see, conditions have changed not only for Ukraine. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg called the current situation a new normality. Mobilizing for aggression will not work for a short time, and that is not enough. We face very specific challenges: to ensure the systematic development of the defence sector in the face of a constant external threat, which includes military, information, economic, energy, political, humanitarian, cyber and other measures affecting our state. Since this type of pressure has already been applied, we need to assume that it will always exist. The Kremlin can take the troops away, then pull them again or place them on a permanent basis around our borders. That is why we must act on this threat as a constant one. That means we need a systemic response, a strategic one based on two components: the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian economy, because that's the foundation of our security. President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine issued two important decrees laying the groundwork for this systemic response. First, a decision has been made to increase the number of our army by 100,000 for four years to 2025. Second, there's been an impetus for the transition to a professional army. In particular, we plan to propose an intensive military training system for citizens that will allow in 2024 to cancel the term at the time of the appeal. It will also allow for the launching of a program of total military training for the population to provide a reserve for both the military and the military. Third, the February 1st Decree clearly states that the defence budget for 2023 should be at least 3 percent of GDP. And this should be taken into account, starting with the formulation of the Budget Resolution. It is also a task to increase our troops’ money supply by 30 percent from March 1st. Parliament has already registered relevant bills, I very much ask you to support them, this is an important part of the steps that will make the army an attractive employer. Now we're working on a package of decisions, and they're related to housing, human resources reform, and they're going to create maximum incentives for someone to make long-term contracts. Our goal is to want to serve in the army for at least ten years, because this is a period of opportunity. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine and especially the Committee of Profiles for the support of our defenders. The committee under the direction of Alexander Zavávnević, for the participation of the various factions, did an irreprehensible work. The committee agreed on a three - year plan for closed defence purchases. This is done for the first time in accordance with the new Procurement Defense Act and allows the Ministry of Defense to work more effectively with long-term projects. Now it's about the RNB and the Cabinet of Ministers. I would also like to thank the Ukrainian Parliament for starting the 4210 bill. It envisions a series of major changes that will improve the quality of defence management and bring our practice closer to the best standards through the implementation of NATO principles. And to the end. A week ago, 100 days after my appointment, I published an interim report. At this point we're gradually moving to the next stage from a crisis stage, I'd call a fire management to strategic development. I've already presented to the President of Ukraine the basic positions of the work plan for the 22nd year, and I've published it the same way, it's part of a four-year package. I'm ready to introduce him to you at any time. It is built on five strategic goals for the development of defence forces as defined in the strategic defence bulletin. This is to ensure effective defence management; to provide quality human capital; to ensure high levels of resilience through re-arms and military technology; to improve military infrastructure, logistics and reserves; and to integrate operational and special capabilities of the defence force; and to achieve the actual level of compliance with NATO requirements. Over the course of the year, we need to maximize all processes, get rid of what is stopping, start personnel reform, start the process of eliminating the queue for apartments, go to a model of comprehensive defense, give impetus to our OPC so that the army can become the driver of the modernization of all Ukraine. I'm sure it'll make it easier for us to get help in the priorities and form new alliances and alliances. Ukraine will be a security donor for all of Europe, and that is what many people understand. Our army is mentally ready to stop any enemy, it is a strategic advantage of the country, and we need to fully unlock this potential, which will require, in particular, changes, including legislation. I thank Parliament once again for its support, and I look forward to it in the future. And here were our Polish colleagues, and using a common story, when Polish-Lithuanian formations raised uprisings against the Russian Empire, there was a very famous expression, the Polish language it sounded: [[Expression in Foreign Language]] And Ukrainian for our freedom and your freedom. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u12	Heroic glory! Thank you, Alexi Juryovich, please take your place. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum to report on the financial resources that need to be addressed urgently, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Sergio Mihajlovich Marchenka. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u13	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! In recent years, you and I have faced the unprecedented challenge of dealing with COVID, which we are successfully dealing with. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the state has already spent 130 billion dollars on this goal. As a result, we have significantly increased the support of the health sector, which in 2022 is set at 233 billion dollars. With the joint efforts of the President of Ukraine, the government and the Supreme Council last year, we supported the economy during the period of the crisis. Thanks to the "Available Credits" and "Available Mortgage", the "eSupport" of the owners and citizens of Ukraine have been able to adapt to the quarantine constraints caused by the pandemic. Last year has become a year of macroeconomic stability and full implementation of medium-term budgetary planning. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the budget declaration for 2022-2024 was supported by Parliament, which became the basis for this year's budget. In 2021, the general government budget's income increased by 24 percent, an additional 207 billion dollars. The amount of government budget expenditure increased by 16 percent or 202 billion dollars. At the same time, the government’s capital expenditure amounted to 134 billion dollars, 41 percent more than 2020. All the priorities set by the President of Ukraine, the government, the parliament, were funded on time and in full scope. These include increasing pensions and social standards, paying of doctors, teachers, financing of defence and security costs, channelling funds to combat COVID and inoculation of the population. The actual budget deficit last year amounted to 3.8 percent of gross domestic product against the planned figure of 5.5 percent of GDP. This allowed us to save about 50 billion dollars with you. The trend for its reduction, the deficit, will continue in the current year. In the 2022 budget, the figure is 3.5 percent of GDP. Active securities transactions and balanced debt policies have reduced government debt to 45.2 percent of GDP and reduced currency risk by 1.8 percent. In 2021 the Ukrainian banking sector made significant progress. Banks have doubled their profits to 77.5 billion dollars, of which 43 billion are government - owned banks. State banks have also reduced the amount of non-working loans by $56.2 billion. As a result, the share of problem loans in government banks declined from 57.4 to 47.1 per year. But why am I telling you all this? The results achieved in 2021 were a reliable cushion for the situation that we are now witnessing around Ukraine and for a calm response to international capital markets. In addition to the pandemic’s concern, financial markets were given new reasons for instability, all during December, January. In particular, it's high inflation and central banks' reaction to inflation risks. The financial situation of large real estate companies in China and, of course, geopolitical risks and strained relations between the United States and China, these factors have led the developing country bond index to the worst levels since the year 99. The deterioration of Eurobond quotations is observed both in Ukraine and in other countries with a similar credit rating, which significantly restricts access to developing capital markets. Since the beginning of the year, there have been record fewer issuers with the primary issue of sovereign bonds from developing countries. The increased volatility in the world’s capital markets has prevented any sovereign issuer from entering the capital markets since early 2022. Despite all these serious obstacles, however, Ukraine’s reforms in the previous years entered in 2022 with a significant supply of liquidity and strong macroeconomic indicators. And we would have all the preconditions and tools to increase this success if it wasn't for a new threat -- a high concentration of Russian troops near our borders. I mean, we've been living in situations of military crisis and aggression for eight years now, it's a common phenomenon for us and it's not new. According to international experts, Ukraine has lost some $280 billion in its lost GDP over the period 2014-2020 in terms of occupation of Donbas and Crimea during all years of military aggression. At the same time, the geopolitical tension surrounding the escalation on the borders has affected investors’ perception of Ukraine’s sovereign debt. This has led to a deterioration in the categorization of Ukraine's Eurobonds in the external markets and to a decrease of the non-residents' portfolios of Ukrainian GDP by about 14 billion dollars, during the January month alone, while during the 21st year we have observed the arrival of non-residents in our GDP at 7.4 billion dollars. As a result, the share of GDP owned by foreign investors decreased from 10 percent to 8 percent, and the risk premium for Ukraine’s sovereign bonds exceeded the thresholds for a thousand base points. The release of domestic bonds showed a significant decrease in demand, resulting in sales of only 6.8 billion dollars in January 2022, 5 times less than in previous months. By comparison, in January 2021 this figure was more than 36 billion — 36 billion in January 2021 and only nearly 7 billion in January 2022. Pansy sentiments overshadowed financial markets, and the world’s leading media became increasingly confident and argued about Russia’s invasion. This could not have affected us, and that is exactly the kind of threat we feel. The President and the government needed to quickly assess the risks and, in the context of increasing geopolitical tension, escalation on our borders and limited, for the objective reasons I have called, access to capital markets to the only right solution is to approach our international partners. And today's crisis has once again made it possible to see how Ukraine feels about the world. A day-to-day joint strategic communication between the President of Ukraine, the government and the Ministry of Finance with partner countries and international financial organizations was launched. As a command of the Ministry of Finance, I have had more than 90 international meetings and calls held since the beginning of the year, personally within a month and a half. Every day, up to five online and offline communications with our foreign partners from several continents. And no meeting came without concrete results. What results have we received today? Firstly, I can say with certainty that the EU's response to support Ukraine, giving 1.2 billion euros in macro-financial assistance, is unprecedentedly fast. The first tranche of such aid will amount to 600 million euros and is unconditional. We hope to get this money by the end of March -- early April of this year. Ukraine's second tranche will receive short-term measures to implement the structural reforms agreed upon by the parties, which are now being jointly implemented by the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance. The unprecedented rapid decision to give Ukraine macro-financial assistance is not only a contribution to the macro-financial stability of the state but also a powerful signal to international markets. Secondly, the United States will grant Ukraine a sovereign loan guarantee of up to $1 billion to support reforms. The Ministry of Finance initiated negotiations on obtaining a loan guarantee back in 2021 with the arrival of a new U.S. government. This initiative at the highest political level was supported by the President of Ukraine. It's not just a sovereign loan guarantee -- it's also a guarantee and a token of a strong partnership. Thirdly, Canada, which is one of the first countries to reach out to Ukraine since the beginning of the year, has decided to allocate 120 million Canadian euros. I'm sorry, it's increasing aid now, increasing the initial amount by $500 million. The British government officially noted that it had prepared a package of economic assistance and military support for Ukraine. German Chancellor Olaf Scholtz, whom I have been communicating with on the issue of obtaining an unrelated share of 150 million euros in his role as finance minister since 2020, recently announced the possibility of obtaining Ukraine these funds. The Ministry of Economy and Finance of France will provide 200 million loans and financial guarantees to Ukraine for 1 billion euros. These costs will be directed towards specific development projects. Minfin is also negotiating with the Japanese government to form a mechanism for the involvement of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) in a new green programme with the World Bank, a development policy loan called green DPL. In the past, the Ministry of Finance has already had the experience of constructing such a mechanism, so we're negotiating to fill and structure a program that's 500 million dollars from the World Bank, and an additional 300 million dollars from the government of Japan. Japan has already announced its willingness to provide Ukraine with at least $100 million in emergency loans. We are currently preparing, together with the World Bank, a draft of the new "green" DPL action matrix and their implementation by April of this year. At present, the harmony and timing of action are higher than ever. And I am grateful to my colleagues in the finance ministers of the Great Seven countries and their colleagues from the European Union, who in word and in deed publicly stress their willingness to act quickly and decisively to support the Ukrainian economy, act in a coordinated manner to provide economic and financial support to Ukraine in the shortest possible time. I would like to highlight an important aspect. There is no doubt that effective cooperation with other countries and international organizations is in place with the International Monetary Fund. It is the International Monetary Fund that is the orientation and quality of our partners. The President of Ukraine, Parliament and Government are doing their best to guarantee progress under the International Monetary Fund programme. We are implementing the necessary conditions and structural beacons, and the implementation of these commitments will speed up the upcoming review of the IMF’s programme and mission, which we hope will take place in the near future. The review expects the third tranche of the $700 million programme, the deadline for the programme ends in June 22, and the latest review expects an additional $1.5 billion. I'm convinced that the inclusion of debt financing, including the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, macro-financial assistance, partner countries' credit, will contribute to the preservation of macro-financial stability and the restoration of investor confidence. At the same time, I would like to stress in particular that, although we expect unprecedented support from international partners, the situation within the country with state finances is controlled and calm, we foresee all expenses in full and in terms of legal time. We have enough money in a single treasury account. The state of February 1st in the single treasury account was 34 billion dollars, the largest figure since January 21st. Tax and customs work solidly, the amount of overturning the income of the general budget in January amounted to 9 billion dollars. This increase was mainly due to the increase in VAT revenues for fuel and energy companies due to the increase in the cost of natural gas and the increase in electricity production for the heating season, as well as the increase in imports of petroleum products, coal and fertilizers, and the increase in retail trade. In particular, in December, retail trade grew by 19.3 percent compared to November 2021. This also allowed for a substantial replenishment of the government’s income. I would also particularly like to point out the increase in the volume of production through accounting operators' registers, including by expanding their scope: January's 17 percent increase compared to December last year. We expect that the trend of overcoming the planned rates of the budget will continue in February. According to our calculations, the recalculation can be up to 5 billion dollars. All priority costs are made on time and in full, no delay in payments and no forecast. The 17 February cash cost is 141 billion dollars, of which 53 billion dollars are allocated to social security, 28 billion dollars to work, 17 billion dollars to subsidies from local budgets. In the OTG, debt repayment is done according to the established schedule. On February 17 we've already extinguished about 57 billion dollars of January-February 77 billion dollars. The 22nd peak of external debt payments is September of the month when Ukraine has to pay off $1 billion of Eurobonds. I will stop at the question of debt policy in more detail. I want to point out that the crisis is not only a problem, it's an opportunity, and we're taking advantage of it. In view of the market situation and the purpose of the economy of Ukraine’s state budget, the Ministry of Finance carried out operations with active government debt management. In particular, at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Finance conducted several operations to buy out GDP and Eurobonds with repayment in the 22nd year. Thus, we have reduced debt burden in good time and in good time. Thanks to this eurobond payment operation, which I pointed out in September 22, it would be $100 million less and it would amount to $912 million, which is significantly lower than the payments made in the last year. The Ministry of Finance has carried out a buy-in operation with the result that the state of Ukraine now owns 20 percent of government derivatives in circulation. This is a far - reaching step, a testimony to our concern for future generations that are not to live in debt. We also respond quickly to foreign policy challenges. The government recently approved a decision to allocate 16.6 billion dollars to guarantee the continuity of flights in Ukraine. These funds will be directed towards providing the necessary guarantees for insurance and licensing companies. We're ready to make other emergency decisions, if necessary, but I hope we don't need them. Regarding security sector financing and defence. I want to point out that the total national security and defence budget for the 22nd year is 323.7 billion dollars or 6 percent of GDP, including direct budget support -- 287 billion dollars, official international aid costs -- 21 billion dollars, state housing support -- 15.5 billion dollars. The increase in general fund expenditure compared to the fact that the 21st year was 16 billion dollars. In January 22nd, security and defence expenditures from the general government budget were funded by 16 billion dollars. These funds are aimed at the payment of cash and salaries for military personnel, the financing of the current costs of the defence and security forces. Within the earlier defense contracts, the Ministry of Defence and other power structures are waiting to supply 31 billion dollars of ready-made products, weapons and military equipment to strengthen our country's security. Along with this, we are preparing an increase of 30 per cent of the military's money to Ukraine's Presidential Order, and 20 per cent to the State Border Guard and the Ukrainian National Guard. In addition, in view of the exacerbation of the situation on the Ukrainian-Russian border, other ways of increasing the defence budget are being considered to take account of the military’s primary needs and to carry out the tasks assigned to the leadership of the state. The Supreme Council has already registered a bill to increase expenditure on the security and defence sector, which is currently being worked on by the budget committee for the active participation of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The source of this expenditure, in particular, may be: overcoming the revenue portion of the state budget that I have already mentioned (that is 9 billion dollars from January, and is expected to be 5 billion dollars in February), improving efficiency and, in particular, tax administration and additional revenue from the possible establishment of differentiated interest rates on gas. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to refrain from making decisions and political statements that could undermine the foundations of Ukraine's financial system and balance the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to report on the state of energy security of Ukraine. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u15	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Ukrainians! I will begin my presentation by providing information on a number of key challenges that the government team is actively working on today with Parliament. The first challenge was somewhat lost in the informational order of the day, but nowhere is the Coronavirus pandemic. So today we're starting to figure out the decline in hospitalizations, which is now the main indicator of the pandemic. The employment of beds is 40 percent, we have almost 73,000 beds, 96 percent of them are oxygen support. Since the beginning of the vaccine campaign, more than 15 and a half million Ukrainians have received at least one vaccine dose, and 45 million safe vaccines have been delivered to Ukraine. So we have them in sufficient quantity for all of us willing, including for booster doses. We keep this situation under control and continue to make sure that the vast majority of the adult population are protected from the threat of coronaryism. The second is the macroeconomic and macro-financial stability of our state. The National Bank has enough reserves to keep the rate stable. As the minister of finance reported today, the January budget was overrun by more than 10 billion dollars. In government accounts, sufficient funds are available to fund all expenses, including all planned salary increases and pensions for Ukrainians. Every day we communicate with our international partners to form an additional support package for our nation. Macrofine from the European Union, guarantees from the US and France, support from Canada, Germany, Japan, Great Britain and other partner countries on the issue of tax financing creates an additional air of security for our economy. Of course, information panic and escalation near our borders have an impact on the economic background. But the situation remains stable and controlled. The government has made operational decisions on the allocation of funds to ensure the continuity of flights to and from Ukraine. We can see that this decision at the level of work, with the professional work of the Ministry of Infrastructure, our diplomats have calmed the situation. We also managed to secure the passage of merchant ships to Ukrainian ports so that Ukrainian exporters would continue to work. And we see that the ports are now operating in normal mode. Another challenge is that we're constantly reflecting cyber attacks. Today, this subject was also featured in this rostrum. We are actively working with our international partners to do this as effectively as possible. Military funding and the cost of modernizing weapons in 2022 at an unprecedentedly high level. The Ministry of Defence spending more than 16 billion over the past year; the development and modernization of arms and technology is 25 percent higher than last year. The average salary of a younger officer in the army is about 15.5,000 dollars, and the additional salary for the service is between 6.5 and 17,000 dollars. As instructed by the President of Ukraine, we will raise the military's money by 30 percent in March. The number of weapons we received this year from our partners is absolutely record. Today, the secretary of defense also reported this. Our army is stronger than ever. One of the key challenges that is particularly relevant because of the global energy crisis is the energy security of our nation. In the previous "hour of questions to the government," I've been very detailed about the strategic steps we're taking to ensure Ukraine's energy independence and security. Like last time, I'm going to start with up-to-date information on the heating season. Ukraine’s energy systems are as stable and predictable as they are, and all consumers are provided with electricity. There have been no failures, and there will be no future, and there will be no plans. We have enough energy resources to bring about a stable end to this heating season. On February 16, we have 822 thousand tons of coal in storage, almost twice as much as last year for the same period. In doing so, coal consumption in February is 18 percent less than last year. The port also unloads another 300,000 tons of coal, two ships approaching the last days. Since November 21st, 17 vessels with energy coals have arrived in Ukraine for the needs of TEC, which is almost 1.3 million tons of coal. The last, extreme, vessel for Centrnergo approached the port of South February 15th, as I said. By the end of February, another 4 vessels are expected to reach a total of about 334 thousand tons. Another 6 vessels with a total volume of 391,000 tons are expected to arrive in March. In addition, coal mining is increasing in Ukrainian mines. There are 13 of the 15 atomic blocks of our power plants in operation today. By February 20, Block 2 of Zaporozhye’s AES must also return to work. This gives us an additional reserve of power and allows us to fully control the situation in the energy market. Another question that concerns the current challenges of the heating season is enough gas. So far, we have 10.6 billion cubic metres of gas in our gas shelters. To compare: on this very date, for example, in the 17th year there were 8.7 billion cubic meters, in the 19th year there were 10.3, or less blue fuel than today. During January and February 22, Naftogaz imported 176 million cubic meters of natural gas. In addition, 300 million cubes are now being contracted in February and March, another 600 million cubic metres of gas the Naftogaz Group plans to import in April of the 22nd. Other market participants have already imported 156 million cubic metres of gas since the beginning of the year. So the gas imports are also going in order. In general, Naftogaz is expected to import at least 1.1 billion cubic metres of gas by the end of April this year. Also, Naftogaz's own production is planning to produce about 3.3 billion more cubic meters of Ukrainian gas in the first quarter of the 22nd year. The Ministry of Energy is tracking the situation every day, and it is in consultation with Naftogaz, not only to go through this heating season in a stable manner, but also to prepare normally for the next heating season that begins in the fall of this year. The operator of the Ukrainian gas transport system is also actively working to create alternative guaranteed gas imports. From February 1st, the physical import of gas from Hungary to Ukraine began for the first time in history. Imports from Slovakia are also taking place. We're working on maximum diversification of supply, and this isn't just about gas, and this is about nuclear fuel, this is about coal, this is about oil, this is about all energy. Among the key tasks and challenges currently facing the government is to fully prepare our energy system for EU energy scarcity, i.e. joining the ENTSO-E European energy network. From February 24th to February 26th of this year, the planned system tests for the isolation mode of Ukraine's energy system, which means that Ukraine's energy system will work without being connected to the energy system of the SND. I want to point out right now that these dates can be adjusted, but the plan remains unchanged. Technically, we're almost 100 percent ready for Ukraine to join Europe's energy system in the 23rd year. What will make such an association possible? Our World Bank colleagues estimated the economic benefits of synchronization from ENTSO-E at $1.5 billion a year for our nation's additional income. And accordingly, we're going to have five very clear advantages: the energy independence and security of our nation; this is transparency and demonopolization; this is export possibilities; this is the decarbonization of our economy and the upgrading of old infrastructure, and the development of new technologies, such as the conservation and production of electricity. So for the government right now, this is one of the priorities of the day. In addition, we have two very important priorities in the field of energy: the security of the country and the development of the economy and self-sufficiency. It's about its own gas production, and it's about thermomodernization programs. As of now, Ukraine has entered into 11 distribution agreements in the area of gas production, which is more than 13 billion dollars of investment only in development and initial infrastructure. In the near future, investors are scheduled to spend more than four. At least 57 research wells are drilled in areas that exceed the size of more than 4.5 thousand square kilometres, seismic research. In several areas, such exploration has already begun and is ongoing. In the second half of this year, the drilling of the first industrial wells will begin. Our long-term goal, which is enshrined in the National Economic Strategy until the 1930s, is to provide 100 percent of Ukraine's natural gas needs at the expense of its own Ukrainian production. At the same time, we understand that this task cannot be accomplished without a large-scale programme for Ukraine's thermo-modernization, and at the initiative of the President this year, this program will take on a really significant scale. This year we are starting to warm thousands of apartment buildings, hospitals, schools, administrative buildings. By 2030, more than 50 percent of the entire Ukrainian Housing Fund is projected to improve housing conditions for 15 million people. The Energy Efficiency Fund, which works with the joint owners of apartment buildings, is active. By the end of January, the fund had received more than 900 applications from OSBB to participate in the Energodim programme. The total cost of projects exceeds 7.3 billion dollars, while the total cost of projects exceeds 4.5 billion dollars. More than 80,000 families and more than 200 homes have been upgraded in part or in full. The Fund’s activities are financed by a budget of half and half by financial support from the European Union and the German government. The State Budget for the Energy Efficiency Fund for 2022 provides additional funding of 2.6 billion dollars, including available funds, the total statutory capital of the Energy Efficiency Fund for this year will be 5.4 billion dollars. We also have several projects in the field of energy efficiency and thermo-modernization with our international partners. The Energy Efficiency of Public Buildings project in Ukraine, supported by the European Investment Bank, will allow about 1,000 public buildings in Ukraine to be modernised, including kindergartens, schools, hospitals, clinics, other social and administrative and cultural objects that are in state and municipal property. The total amount of credit from the European Investment Bank for these needs is 300 million euros, and this programme starts in March of this year. All these programs will certainly be effective by the end of this year. The nation's energy security is becoming one of the largest modernization projects of the next decade, and Ukraine becomes one step closer to absolute energy independence every day. Because energy and trade aggression and blockade, escalation on the borders, cyberattacks, attempts at internal, political destabilization, attempts to undermine reforms and the European vector of our state's development and, of course, disinformation are all elements of a hybrid war that has been going on in our territory for eight years. But we know how to defend our country. We are a strong, independent people who are ready to defend their independence and freedom with guns. Our international partners have shown their support, not in words, but in fact, their assistance daily strengthens our army, our economy, our positions in the international arena. Such a combination of the world’s leading democracies has been gone for decades, and our enemy sees it, and he tries to sweep the ship from the inside, that is, to scare us all apart. Our unity is really our best weapon, and it's our strength. We have a great state, we have a strong army, we have a brave army, we thank them for it. We have a strong, unbreakable, courageous nation behind us. We want to live peacefully, we want to thrive and work on our land, we will not allow anyone to dwell on our democratic, European, free, civilized future. So, respectable Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs, distinguished colleagues, let us trust our military, our people, our country, for ourselves, let us believe in our state. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u16	Heroic glory! Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, let us turn to questions from MP factions and groups. Please sign up for the three speakers. Please. The word is given to the national deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, a faction. MP's Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u17	Culinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u18	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u19	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. I have a question for Finance Minister Sergey Marchenk. Mr. Minister, please tell us that we have a record funding in the State Defence Budget this year -- about 20 billion dollars. But in these difficult circumstances, will there be an increase in funding, and what are the specific directions? Is this foreordained? And if so, when can such an increase be expected, and in what specific directions? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. Indeed, in implementing the President's decree, there will now be a substantial increase in the provision of military personnel, as noted in his report by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, and I noted, by 30 percent. Costs, now there are bills on the budget committee, they're being worked out, and this could potentially be up to 20 billion dollars in the Ministry of Defence sector. In addition, there are separate costs for the establishment of territorial defence and other needs of the Ministry of Defence for the purchase of necessary equipment, up to 2 billion more. So these funds are now, we're discussing on the budget committee when these bills can be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u21	Thank you. Please give the floor to Sergey Fedorovich of Sweden, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u22	Dear Head, dear friends, look, I have a personal question for the Secretary of Defense, but now for that. I'll put it in a little bit later. Now, in order for the fractional question to be consolidated, please pass the word to Maxim Tuckenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Maxim Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u24	Thank you. Maxim Tkachenko, Luganshina. Question, first of all, to the distinguished Prime Minister. Denis Anatoliyovich, my presentation today relates to yesterday’s events and the upheaval in our eastern part of the country, and especially in my native Lugansk. I also associate my speech with my concern for my fellow countrymen, the inhabitants of our controlled Luhansk. I would like to ask you once again to pay attention to the need not only for military support there but also for support from local authorities, district authorities. I want to point out that our interim commission of inquiry, which worked after the fires, concluded very many conclusions, and now we need to take note of those conclusions in order not to repeat what happened in 2020 at the fires. And if we can't, there's district authority to deal with that challenge.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I mean, last week we were in Luhansk with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Lithuania, Lithuania, together with the Deputy Prime Minister, we were in Lugansk, we were in happiness, we were personally looking at the situation that is now happening on the spot, we had a conversation with the Head of the Military Civil Administration. And of course, we will further work on your appeal and conclusions to take into account all the wishes, comments, suggestions that are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u26	Thank you. The word is given to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich, Ukrainian National Deputy of Ukraine, from the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please tell me, what criteria are used by the Cabinet of Ministers, including you personally, in making decisions, namely, by taking the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on the collection of salaries for employees of the National Police and employees of the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security? Why do I ask the question? Because the authorities are under control, the Cabinet of Ministers is paying, the Cabinet of Ministers is making the same decisions, only in fact does the BEB worker receive 50,000, and the National Police co-worker gets 12,000. Explain the criteria. And the second question. How would you say, according to the budget, "Transitional positions", in connection with Operation Excise, which of the organs will control the number, give us a call? And when it's accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind you that since February 1, wages throughout the IMF system have been raised by 10 percent. In addition, according to the President's decree of 1 March, this size will be brought to 20 percent compared to the beginning of the year, i.e. an additional 10 percent increase since 1 March, once again, under the IMF system. It's about setting wages. Indeed, we have different methods approved by both the State Service and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the ministries also for individual departments, for individual ministries. Of course, we are very careful about these differences between wages that may occur in different organizations, and in turn the Cabinet of Ministers, as the highest authority, is making a decision to balance all these things. But it's very important that, according to the President's decree, we understand that as of 1 March, the salaries of the military, the military's financial security will increase by 30 percent, and the police's cash security will increase accordingly to 20 percent from the beginning of the year. Regarding Operation Excise, the Minister of Internal Affairs has repeatedly reported on this point, on the extremely successful results of the operation at the end of last year and at the beginning of this. If the Ministry of Internal Affairs has something to add, please fill in, if not.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I want to inform you that the results of the three months of Operation Excise add-on to the state budget compared to the same figures last year have increased by about 3 billion dollars. We will regularly inform the people’s deputies of the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u30	Thank you. The word is given by the faction "European Solidarity" of the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u31	Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday the head of the Zacarpathian ODA Victor Mikita said that the Russians were our brothers, he must have missed eight years of war when the brotherly Russian army killed Ukrainians. How do you appreciate those words? And when do you propose to the President of Ukraine that he be removed from office? The other one. Why, contrary to and in violation of the Ukrainian Law, has the government adopted a decision and adopted restrictions on the formation of a competition commission to select the director of the NAB who has been removed from this commission by an international expert? And the third question. We see that Ukraine is buying electricity from Belarus and Russia, buying and increasing the volume of purchases of bitumen from Belarus and the Russian Federation. When will you finally end this disgrace? When do you stop funding the assassin state, the aggressor state of the Russian Federation? When you stop using funding.?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u32	So it's about the first part of the question. We will conduct a proper study of either the need to investigate words, and if there are legal grounds for doing so, we will take appropriate action. This is about the first part of your question. Part two of your question. I did not understand how the NABU is linked to Russia’s financing, but I would like to report the following about the NAB. Here's the next thing I want to report on the N.A.U.U. The Cabinet of Ministers appointed six members, six members, to the appropriate committee for the selection of the Director of the NABU on 15 February. Everything was done according to Ukrainian law. In addition, I would like to add that, for the first time in five years on Wednesday, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to approve the Council of Public Controls at the NABU, which was also submitted accordingly. And this is also an additional tool for anti-corruption control in our country. Therefore, all steps to strengthen anticorruption infrastructure in our State by the Cabinet of Ministers are being taken in time, according to the legislation in force, and in full volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u33	The word is given for a question from the MP's Party for the Future. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Please answer to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u34	We don't buy energy in Russia. We don't drive coal from Russia. The state doesn't buy any energy in the Russian Federation, dot. I repeat, the state is not buying.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is from the MP's Party for the Future to Father Taras Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u37	I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister or Minister of Defense if he is more competent in answering that question. See, the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition combines the efforts of the Special Operations Force and the territorial defence to carry out individual resistance tasks. It's the law. But in the Cabinet’s provision for the preparation of voluntary formations of the territorial communities among the Special Operations Force training subjects in general, they provide only for the agreement of joint action. It's a special terminology, but it's not exactly written and it doesn't allow for this very unique law to work today. The request to pay attention to this and to take action. And secondly, I'm going to give you 10 more seconds to think about it. It was the minister of defense who publicly declared that he was a citizen in favor of being a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u38	I'm giving my word to the Secretary of Defense. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u39	Thank you. I think you haven't finished the question of how I feel about the legalization of weapons. If I guessed, I say that I am convinced that this should be done, because in Ukraine there is no law that regulates, in principle, the circulation of arms. We've only got the notable acts to regulate it, so I very sincerely believe that the Ukrainian Parliament will finally adopt a law in which everything will be regulated at the level of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u40	Thank you. We're done, aren't we? What about the first question? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u41	First of all, it was a recommendation, and I heard it, and I'm going to take care of it, and I'm going to report it to the national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u42	Thank you. Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u44	Another Romanovna Sosun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u45	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, in the last few weeks, Ukraine has seen a series of student protests, demanding one – the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Sergio Scarlet, for a completely failed policy in the field of education and science. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a few questions for you. Question one. Tell me, how am I supposed to explain to my students that they can't be plagiarized if plagiarism could be the minister of education? The second question. What are the specific achievements of Minister Scarlett in the position for which you continue to hold him in this position? Question three. When will your submission on the resignation of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Sergei Scarlett? Four. Do you realize that if there is no resignation, you are now failing the reform of the "New Ukrainian School" in the West in the fifth grade? None of this is done now, and it will be your political responsibility for the failure of a very important reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. Education reform is one of the most important in our country among the more than two dozen that we are implementing, so, of course, we are very responsible for all of Kabmin, and so am I, personally and Minister Scarlet. Regarding the development of higher education, regarding student protests. We met with students, we made arrangements with them, we work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the word is given by the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers" Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u48	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, seven years in a row, the Fatherland faction said that "ministerial contractors," these arrangements, are absolutely worthless. And, thank God, the President of Ukraine already understands the consequences of these Minsk agreements. I have a specific question from the whole "Fatherland" faction to the Minister of Finance. Dear Sergey Mihajlovich, please tell me in the light of the experience of Greece and Poland, which has been written down by external debt -- and you've talked a lot about external debt and payment in your speech today, I've listened very carefully to -- who forbids you now to start negotiations on external debt write-offs, as Greece has done and the same Poland? Please tell me. We are a warring country, we have very serious defence problems where we can send money to the military. Please tell me, who forbids you to negotiate debt cancellation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u49	We don't even use the word "deduction" of debts, and that's why we recommend not to talk about cheating, about restructuring, because debt obligations have to be served on time and in full. This creates trust and allows us to borrow below interest in the future, reduce credit risks, raise credit ratings, improve the country's business reputation. So debt cancellation is not what we have to do. And we need to look for effective borrowing tools, including our international partners, as I pointed out. This is also the European Commission's international financial support, which is the support of the United States. That is, the funds that we will be able to use effectively, including to pay off our prior debt obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed questions from factions and groups. If you don't mind, I'll have one more question or a proposal to the Prime Minister. We voted next week in the plenary room. Therefore, I very much ask those bills that are primarily specific to the defence sector, to finance the defence sector, to support the country's defence capacity, please give us a list of priorities for the government in order to ensure Ukraine's independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty. I'll expect it very much from you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we turn to questions to the Prime Minister and members of the government from the Ukrainian National Deputies. People's deputies please sign up for questions. The word is given to the national deputy of Aleksiychuk Alexandre Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please pass the word to Prostutku Edward.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u52	Edward Prostzek, please, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u53	Edward Proschtuk, 85th constituency, Attitude. I have a question for the acting minister of environmental protection and the natural resources of Ruslan Sagittarius. As far as I know, at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there is a decree on the creation of a state-owned commercial enterprise called the Forest of Ukraine by merging enterprises that were part of the administration of the State Agency of Ukraine with the rights of the successor. Taking into account the difficult situation in the woodworking sector of Ukraine, such as energy efficiency, the decline in production, the great external competition and the highly regulated permit system, would it not be possible to create such a state-owned enterprise by duplicating the state's already existing control functions? Will this lead to a reduction in the VAT and other budgeting of the territorial communities? And does that not conflict with the reform of financial decentralization? And I think it would be very important to consult with a professional committee, with parliamentarians, particularly senior MPs, who are always in contact with communities. Please answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u54	Thank you so much for asking. First, I want to say that in 2021 the Forest Development Strategy was approved by 2030. This strategy identified some target indicators to be achieved by the forestry sector of Ukraine, including the expansion of the area, including improvements in the financial performance of the sector. And this document, we think, is whole and important. The strategy also has a plan of action that includes reforming the form of state-owned enterprises. Today, there is work to be done on the creation of a single state-owned enterprise, as indicated by the relevant strategic documents. And I want to point out that the social elements, the social factors are fully taken into account in this formation, and this is absolutely not going to affect the social or economic state of those people who are working in the field today. It's a PDF question. On the basis of the Ministry, consultations have been held on a number of occasions, and we understand clearly that the VAT as the primary tax that remains in the territories of the united territorial communities or other territories today will remain where it has been paying for all these years. And I'm sure the local budgets won't get away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u55	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy Nekludov Vladen Mikhailovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I ask you to pass the word to the champion of the world and Europe, to the Olympic champion, to the pride of our country and to the Parliament of Jean Belenjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u57	Jean-Vensanovic Belenjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u58	Thank you for your word. I have a question for the minister of youth and sports, Vadim Gutzite. Mr. Minister, the question of the end of the Olympic Games that are coming to an end in Tokyo. Well, first of all, I want to welcome you, like the entire ministry, with a medal, but there's a very unfavourable trend that one age-old athlete Alexander Abramenko is already two Olympic cycles, essentially saving us from a zero on the Olympics. What should we do about it? Who are we going to bet on in the future, given that both Alexander and Vlad Heraskovich complained that there is no necessary training infrastructure in Ukraine, there is no trampoline, there is no highway? I would like to thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u59	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. I want to welcome all of Ukraine with a silver prize, this is a real success for all of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. About the Olympic bases for our athletes. Just a week ago, when Mr. George Mazuras asked me a question, we talked about building infrastructure for winter sports. For 30 years, nothing has been done in Ukraine to build and train our athletes for the world’s champions and the Olympics. In the last two years alone, we have started a real development for the elderly. Yeah, we don't have enough infrastructure for winter sports, and we're working on it. We're working hard on this, we're seeing where we're going to build, where we're going to spend. We're looking at how to drive and conduct the Olympic Winter Games in Ukraine in the 1930s, and we're working on it. As far as Skeleton's concerned. We've talked to the President of the Federation on numerous occasions with Bobsley and Skeleton, and we can see the way out of this situation. But the state has fully ensured the preparation of our Vladislav Gerasquewich for the Olympic Games and preparations. He's trained at all the best bases abroad. What about the trampoline and our silver charmer? He also prepares at the best bases in the world, and the state has fully provided both funds and equipment for our athlete to be represented at the Olympic Games and he has won the prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u60	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Misagina Yuri Mihajlovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u62	Please, Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u63	Thank you. Dennis Maslov, "Serial of the People" faction, Dniproperty. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the extremely violent problem that affects hundreds of thousands of residents of hostels throughout Ukraine. Unfortunately, the Gas Market Act does not refer to the population consumer category. And at this difficult time, they have to pay 30-40 for gas, sometimes more than 50 dollars for a cubic meter of gas. I have in the Dnipropetrov region almost two hundred at the Ministry of Hostel Education where students, they pay the same at higher prices. My colleagues and I have registered Bill 7008, which has to fix this situation and allow them to pay as residents of the neighbouring surfaces, multistory floors of 7.90. Please tell us how you feel about such an initiative, how will this matter be resolved?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. In fact, in the hostels where people live, there's the price as for the population of 7.96, in the separate hostels that you're talking about, if they're famous and they're in the classrooms, that's where they're paid as budget institutions for which they pay a $16.80 budget with transportation and VAT. Let's just take your call, and if there are specific cases where there's some non-resolution, non-resolvement, based on the Ministry of Community and Territorial Development, we'll look at every particular case. But in general, the situation should be the way I described it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Didenko Julia Alexandrovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Alexander Fedienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u67	Please, Alexander Fedienko, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u68	Kyiv district, Borispol city. Mr. Secretary of Defense, MPs receive many questions about the deployment of territorial defence in the districts, namely, the issue of financing and the provision of units in the territorial defence. I'm asking you a question. What can we as Ukraine’s national deputies do to help the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence to effectively deploy the territorial defence on the ground? Is it possible that communication between local authorities, military authorities, and others may need to be strengthened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u69	Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u70	Thank you so much for asking. First, we ask you to support a bill that's already on the committee and you'll have it in a room that offers about 2 billion funding to open up the territorial defense. And secondly, it's communication with city heads, administrations to help them quickly with the extra facilities and their facilities. In particular, in the Borispil district, I am ready to give you a list, and thank you very much for your concern.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Sweden Sergey Fedorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u72	Good afternoon. I'm again addressing the Ukrainian Defense Minister. Mr. Reznikov, with deep respect, I have remembered your work since the great 2004 Supreme Court trial, has always appreciated your subjectivity and conviction. Actually, two questions. First, short, yes/no question. Do you get divorced from our Western partners, first of all, I ask about the United States, this has been discussed? And second, it's wider. Can you (please, please, with your objectivity and conviction, point all the cameras in this room at you) once again, perhaps this is necessary for Ukrainian citizens who are threatened or threatened in the near future? It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u73	Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u74	In the near future, Ukraine’s citizens in general throughout the territory are in no danger except for citizens living today in the Lugansk, Donetsk areas where illegal military formations under the leadership of the Russian Federation of Military Forces are firing second-century shells and endangering the civilian population and our military, where the threat is real today. And these provocations are being watched, fixed, and I hope that the Tripartite Contact Group will meet and the report of the OSCE group will confirm that. And intelligence. We get data from our partners on a permanent basis. By the way, you can watch drones flying over Ukraine, it's a flyer you can see. This has been a direct agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the United States since 2018. So we see everything that's going on around our borders and we compare our partners' data with our intelligence data, we're comparing them on a permanent basis in real-time mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Ziba Tetjana Viktorovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Olga Vassilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u77	Please, Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk, "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Vasilevska Smagluk, 96th District. My electorate, who live in the zone of voluntary eviction, was shaken by photos of a Ponton Bridge across the Pripet River from the border of Belarus. What, specifically, are the points you used, Mr. Prime Minister, in the event of a possible invasion of Ukraine by Chernobyl? Have appropriate consultations been held with the new governor of Kiev and the head of the State Agency for the management of the alienation zone? What is the plan to declare and evacuate the population? Please tell me what has been done specifically to make people feel that they are concerned and understand the situation of a possible invasion on the part of the Kyiv region? What personnel conclusions did you make about the head of DAWW in connection with the failure of the program to build a repository of radioactive waste? And what happens when Russia takes our nuclear waste to our border because you, as a government, have actually done nothing to build the appropriate shelter to be launched in 2023? And who's going to pay 47 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u79	Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u80	Thank you for your questions. With regard to the personnel conclusions, they were just made, now a new c.o. Appointed, and accordingly c.o. The minister of environmental protection is leading this direction, as you mentioned in the second part of your question. As to the first part of the question, there's definitely a piece of information with the "secret" phrase, but what you can hear is what I'm asking the Secretary of Defense to sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u81	Thank you. As I pointed out in my talk, we have a direct link between the military attachés. We've broken the question about this pontoon bridge, the pontoon transport, and we've got the answer, the assurance that it's in the classroom, and it's going to be solved soon. At least that was the assurance we received from the Belarusian side. But regardless of that, our law enforcement agencies, which ensure security and order in the Blackwater AES alienation zone, believe me, care absolutely, and know everything, and observe everything, and to any scenario are ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u82	Please, National Deputy Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u83	I'd like a word with Dmitri Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u84	Dmitri Black, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u85	Dmitri Black, "Serve of the People." Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you have raised in your speech the issue of the state's energy security. I want to point out the problem in the next place around the strategic enterprise of the East Side. An enterprise that produces nuclear fuel for our nuclear stations. This enterprise needs to work and develop to ensure the energy security of Ukraine as a whole, and I urge you to find the possibility of State support for this enterprise, the only producer of uranium concentration in Ukraine. Experts point out that an enterprise can save the association with the NAEC "Energot". That's the first one. And the second. Please find the possibility of introducing a moratorium on the blocking of accounts in the direction of an executive service in a given enterprise, allowing an enterprise to function normally for at least a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. It's really a matter of national energy security, you're absolutely right. With regard to the accession of the East Coast to Energoatem, I have been assigned to the Ministry of Energy and to the NAEC Energy Department. And in more detail, I would like to ask the Minister of Energy to report on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. Yeah, really, we're working on this exact path, this is the way to join. To do that, we need to do something, in particular, properly do the Energoatum Corporation, and we're moving in that direction. So in fact, this enterprise has a single counterparty -- it's the Energy Company, and it's going to solve a lot of questions. With regard to the arrest of accounts, let's say that this is more of a business issue, and we're also operationally solving all of the issues that arise in the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u88	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Natalia Pipi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u90	Natalia Romanovna Pippa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u91	Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you. You've been working for about two years now, and your Kabmin now understands that we're on the verge of war, and he's actively working for our defense. But there is a minister who uses the situation of war and impunity and drowns our education in Ukraine. It's a question of the Kiev-Magilian Academy, it's the Kharkiv Biotech University, it's a question of failed school feeding reform, it's a question of the National Language Commission. That's my question. After you, by no one else, has there been such a corruption scandal and such an appointment as Minister Scarlett has taken place here in the hall. So I have a question for you: when you take the shame out of your Kabmin, take your rights and resign Scarlett?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u92	Let me remind you that the war in Ukraine lasts eight years, and we are not at the threshold of war today. You said that. The second is school feeding reform. It's a difficult reform, and it's being implemented, I think, quite successfully, although, like any reform, it takes some time and a lot of effort, which is happening. With regard to all the appointments and situations in the relevant National Language Commission, which is currently under government and ministry control, all these things are handled by the Ministry and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u93	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Burmić Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u95	Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u96	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Anatolyovich Schmigal. Dmitri Anatoliyovich, the government you're leading, is very unique -- the first government in 30 years of independence in Ukraine that works without an approved program. The other one. According to sociological surveys, polls in 2021, 52.9 respondents said that their families' material situation had deteriorated during 2021, 52.9 indicated that they did not believe that the government could change the situation in the country for the better. That's the reason, 37 percent point to the incompetence of the government you run, and 34 points to high levels of corruption. I have a question for you. Please tell me, when will the Supreme Council finally be able to approve the Kabina program of work that you are leading? And the second. When will the era of poverty end in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u97	First, the Government's Action Programme was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and was introduced to Parliament in due course almost a year and a half ago. The government is further working on the basis of annual government action plans, which are also approved according to that legislation, and they are public documents, and certainly any Ukrainian citizen can be consulted. In addition, an appropriate electronic electronic platform of electronic governance has been developed that allows the government, ministers, Ukrainian citizens, national deputies, and in electronic format, to monitor the government's activities in accordance with the action plan and the programme. With regard to the situation today in Ukraine, I want to point out that today's global inflation trend is in all countries: in the United States -- more than 5 percent, in the European Union, in Eastern European countries -- 6-7 percent. In Ukraine, inflation has been 10 percent over the past year in recent months, and it is now fluctuating in the area of 10 percent. But our key task is to make citizens' income, the average wage goes up faster than inflation. And here it has to be noted that Ukraine's salary in the past year has increased by 21 percent in inflation by 10. In December, the average wage was nearly $600 for the first time in history, and that's also an important indicator. And the government is still working, and the steps that we are taking for the President's initiative to raise the salaries of our military, our medics, our teachers in turn. And we're going to continue to work on the growth of wages in Ukraine, and this increase is higher than the inflation rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u98	The word is given to national deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u99	Kowalczuk Alexander, Plaintish. Please pass the word to Žmerenecki Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u100	Alexy Zmerenecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u101	Thank you. I have two questions for Mr. Marchenk's finance minister. First question. This year, we have the largest military budget in the history of Ukraine, as well as an additional 2 billion to be voted on by the military and to raise salaries. Say, specifically, calm down the Ukrainians, the military: Is there money in the budget from the amounts available and from those already foreseen in the borrowing? That's the first one. The other one. You talked about helping our international partners: the British, the Canadians, the Americans, the Europeans, and so on. But you didn't say how much that money would cost, because, I mean, it's not free help, it's still loans and loans. So, please tell me, at what rates are these loans? How much taller or lower they are than what they are now. How much is Ukraine's securities worth now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the money we have to provide for the defence needs is in the budget. As I mentioned in the report, this is also due to better tax administration, overturning revenue in January-February, and possible increases in gas rents. We store the necessary resources and the funds will be sufficient to provide for the defence needs. On the second question of the value of the loan. The cost of borrowing is minimal and depends on countries and their credit ratings. Considering that these are countries that have an AAA credit rating, that means that these credit costs are up to 2 percent, maybe even lower, depending on the country. So much lower than, let's say, the government can now borrow, taking into account the situation that is now in the capital market and in the internal market. So this is an absolutely beneficial story for us, and this will allow us to replace the expensive borrowing of previous years with cheap direct lending from our partner countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u103	Please give the floor to Ukraine's national deputy Bilozur Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u104	Larissa Bilozer, Trust MP, Winnitzkin, 17th constituency. I have a question to Mr. Sergey Marchenk, Minister of Finance, about the need to increase spending on an educational grant, which has been discussed by virtually all majority deputies, virtually all communities, and even the Ministry of Education of Ukraine, which claims that they need to finance an education grant for 7.5 billion dollars. The formula that was developed does not take very much into account the actual needs. This is also an increase in the number of students and the funding of pedagogical patronage. Instead, many answers from the Cabinet say that it is impossible for local budgets to be funded. Is there a general understanding of the situation in place and the final need for funding?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u105	Thank you for asking. Indeed, we have an understanding of the formula for educational subsidy, how it is distributed. We are ready to listen to your reasonable suggestions if this formula has to be improved. It's about the lack of funds. Today, this information, which you have heard, is unverified, is unreliable, and we do not consider it that way. If there are specific territorial communities or local budgets that need additional security, please give us this specific information, and we are operationally managing this issue with the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u106	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Honourable Denise Anatoliyovich, unfortunately, did not give a clear and professional answer to his colleague’s questions about the Sergey Eutushka faction. I have a question for you. Who forbids you from negotiating with international creditors regarding the cancellation of debts? There's a small window of opportunity in the countries today, we're supported by the world community, let's have a professional discussion about the force majeure that came up. This is not only a threat to the state of Ukraine but to the whole of Europe. Because of this, please have a clear answer: Why does the Ukrainian authorities in the government not start a professional discussion with international creditors about debt cancellation? The history of Ukraine will not forgive you if there is such a lost chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u108	The Minister of Finance gave an extremely professional, thorough, and detailed answer to that question. We're negotiating with our partners to increase support. And I want to remind you that even in 2014, when military action began, Ukraine did not give up its obligations to our international partners, which, of course, increased our rating, our country's status, our trust in our country from our partners. And we will continue to be extremely careful about our nation’s obligations. Where the cost of service can be reduced, the Ministry of Finance will use all necessary measures to make appropriate reparations, for appropriate negotiations. All these steps, of course, are being taken by the Ministry of Finance. But all of Ukraine’s debts today are uninterrupted; we today have all the macrofinancial grounds. So the minister of finance gave a very detailed and clear answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u109	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". The Fed Sofia Romanovna, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u110	Questions to the Secretary of Defense. What can the Supreme Council of Ukraine do to activate the Neptune program and develop other missile systems? What problems are there in the government’s plan in this context? The second question. What responsibility did the D.B.I. investigators who removed the clichés and actually put national security at risk? And where are the guarantees that such a situation will not happen again? At the same time, when will those who, with the help of law enforcement agencies, are held accountable for the purchase of goods and services for the Ukrainian Armed Forces? And the third question. What is the state of accumulation of strategic reserves — food, goods, ammunition, and, in particular, fuel supplies?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u111	Thank you. First. As for Neptune, it doesn't need to be restored, it is and it works. And for today, I've personally been to our Luc company, and I've been talking to the head of this company. So there's no problem with this program. First. The other one. A rocket program has been developed that envisions the development of Ukraine for 10 years, with funding of about 250 billion dollars for these 10 years. Today it is under consideration, its main indicators, for the National Security and Defence Council to consider it, and then it will be proposed for approval by the government. On the basis of this, an appropriate target program will be prepared, which will be approved. And then we'll be with you for 10 years and we'll understand clearly what year, how much money we need. Next. As for the D.B.I. and the Clestrons, I'm sorry, it's not for me. I don't run this independent body, so I can't communicate with you. As far as strategic reserves are concerned. Unfortunately, not everyone in the room has access to classified information. So I can say one thing: everything under control, they're formed, they're fueled, they're completely filled, there's no risk of food, there's no risk of weapons, there's no ammunition. We're ready for any scenario, we're ready to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Olenna Kostvena Kondratjuk. And we're going to end up with an hour of questions to the government. Olena Kostovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for Mr. Lášk, Minister of Health, and Mr. Marchenk, Minister of Finance. You know, the medics, the doctors, the nurses, the nurses -- they're all expecting the government to raise their wages by 20,000 dollars, by 13.5,000 dollars. Instead, we hear from them now that they're being transferred to 0.5 bets, 0.75 bets, and they're not going to get these higher wages. Instead, I've heard Minfin say that 34 billion dollars should be sufficient to raise wages. Please either correct this information, or promise the medics that they will receive the salary increase you have promised. Thank you. Please give an exhaustive answer as to whether or not it will be, and why there are now such warnings to the medical community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u114	Good afternoon! Thank you for asking. I can say with confidence that paying medical workers is already a reality. To implement the 261 decree of the President of Ukraine by the government and the Supreme Council in 2022, a record funding of 232 billion dollars was made available to the state budget. This allowed for a new basic level of salaries for doctors of at least 20,000 dollars per month, and for an average health worker of at least 13,000 500 dollars per month since January 2022. Most of the medical personnel have already received the payment. They also started. Well, the primary, the extravaganza, all those who are funded by the fundraiser, the famous institutions, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence, the National Academy of Sciences have already received these payments. Most institutions in specialized medical care have also received these payments. But there are a number of institutions where there are insufficient tariffs to fully pay for higher wages. These costs were received, advance payments, in February, in order for them to re-close all payments for January of the month. And there's a separate package in the Medical Guarantees Program, called the Salary Payments Package, that's the amount of 600 million dollars a month that's going to be paid. This is part of the Health Guarantee Program in the contingency budget, so all the health workers will get the salary that we've been sounding. As for the shift of 0.5, by 0.75 bets. A meeting of the Minister of Health was held with the temporary responsibility of Head of State, and tests will begin. All facilities that have been unduly converted into 0.5 bets will be drawn to 0.75 health - care workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I still have two factions and groups to address with an intermission. Let's get this over with and then we'll take a break, and we'll be here in 30 minutes. Please, Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u116	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Three years ago, on February 18, 19, I signed amendments to the Constitution, in which the desire of Ukrainians to join the EU and NATO gave power to the Basic Law. The results of the referendum, not the referendum, were published yesterday, but the sociological survey, which recorded record support for the North Atlantic Alliance: almost two thirds of Ukrainians. A sensible response from society to the threat posed by Russia and its "crazy Fuhrer". With public opinion, dear friends, strongly dissonant of Ambassador Pristajka's statement about Ukraine's willingness to give up Russia in the matter of joining NATO. The importance of the diplomat's words is that he is not just an ambassador to Britain -- he is the former Foreign Minister and former Deputy Prime Minister on European and Euro-Atlantic integration issues. As if it were the Adversary's self-activity, he would immediately have received Mr. Zelensky's lips. Thus, the weekly silence of Zelensky gives reason to suspect that the test ball for Pristik was being hit on Bank. The government fully assumes a trade with Russia in the matter of life and death. The only guarantee of security is membership in NATO and only. We realize that the way to the alliance is long, and we need to strengthen our own army. And we thank our partners very much for their help, including the military. But Ukraine urgently needs even more defensive weapons, including, above all, antiaircraft and missile launchers, taking into account yesterday’s performance by Mr. Blinken at the United Nations Security Council, that a blow will be made to create a dome that protects us from the Russian advantage in the air. And the thing is not on the date, we don't know what day Putin will finally break, Russia will constantly smother us with a military ring across the border, and it will compress it, and it will weaken. Yesterday at Donbas, 60 shots were fired, and we have to live in a state of constant anxiety. So we're asking for our bill to increase military funding by 50 billion, to set up teams, to increase financial security, to open up a reserve line, to form a strategic reserve, and to provide territorial defence. Green's got to contain his corrupt appetites for grand theft, sew up his pockets and hand over the army's money. Good roads are needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. Meet me at 12:40. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, let's move on. We're still planning on asking people's deputies. I give the word of Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Kostovni. Please, Olena Kostvena.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u119	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. During the plenary week, there were 114 MPs, of whom 8 to the President of Ukraine, 1 to the Supreme Council, 54 to the Cabinet of Ministers, 38 to the heads of other government bodies and local self-government bodies, 38 to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership, 13 parliamentary requests. Dear colleagues, may I proceed to the reading and voting of requests from the people's deputies to the President of Ukraine? Please take your seats. So, colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Eugene Pivovarov's request to the President of Ukraine for housing for internally displaced persons in the Kharkiv region. Please vote. [[12:44:50]] For 276 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:45:14]] For 278 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Michael Bondar's request to the President of Ukraine to present to the State Prize of Lebedinac Vera Sergiyevna (CPT Controller, known as the Military Defense of the DP "Production Union of the South Car Construction Plant named O.M. Macarova" m. Dnipro) for the personal courage and heroism found in carrying out the ministry (mortal). Please vote. [[12:46:09]] For 279 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:46:36]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Michael Laba's request to the President of Ukraine to initiate the development of the State Programme "Prevention of Natural Disasters in Mountain Settlements". Please, let's vote. [[12:47:09]] For 285 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:47:34]] For 282 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national MPs (Ionova, Pavlovka and others, only 8 deputies) to the President of Ukraine to assign the name Sergey Prokofier to the defenders of the Donetsk International Airport, Ukraine's Hero (after death). Please vote. [[12:48:11]] For 284 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:48:37]] For 287 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Krivrukkina, Krivosheev, Ovrovnikova) to the President of Ukraine regarding the need to ensure the right of the people of the Mikolai district to safety and health of the environment. Please, let's be clear, let's vote. [[12:49:15.]] For 283 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:49:39]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Proscetka, Bondarenko, and others). A total of 7 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on a solution to the exceptional environmental situation in the city of Kalus Ivano-Frankow region. Please vote. [[12:50:14]] For 289 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:50:37]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request by Oksana Savichuk to the President of Ukraine for the use of response measures aimed at the removal of Vladimir Putin, Dmitri Medvedev and other individuals of the Ukrainian State Prizes awarded before 2013. Please vote. [[12:51:16]] For 269 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:51:42]] For 265 Decision taken. Please show by factions. I can hear it. I don't need to scream five times. Thank you. It is an open-ended vote to support the request made by Mr. Dmitry Solomon to the President of Ukraine to mark the occasion of the seventh anniversary of the struggle for the Debalt State Prizes of Ukraine's special composition 1 Mountain-Infantry Platoon 1 Mountain-Infantry Company 1 Mountain-Infantry Battalion 128 individual Mountain-Storm Brigade under the command of Senior Lieutenant Zivnik Roman Stanislavovic for his personal courage and heroism, stamina and determination in carrying out his military duty at the "Alexia" command post under conditions of risk for life. Please vote. [[12:52:54]] For 280 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:53:19]] For 278
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u120	Decision taken. Dear colleagues, these are all parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine today. Please show me on the factions of the last vote. Thank you. I'm about to move on to the state-of-the-art question. So it's the MP's questions. Olga Saladuha to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, please proceed with the announcement of parliamentary inquiries. Who doesn't care, you leave the room, but quietly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u122	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Olga Saladuha to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration for the Financing of Territorial and Local Centres, the Children's Youth Sports Schools of FST Spartacus, Dynamo, Ukraine and Colossus. Oxana Dmitry to the Ukrainian Health Minister for the purchase of COVID-19 vaccines in 2020-2022. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Department of Police, the Society with limited responsibility for the possibility of disrupting the use of property. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the possible violation of the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine in the use of natural resources. Ivan Šinkarenko and Antonina Slavicka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the possible violation of land use regulations. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney-General for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Forest Resources Agency for the further activities of the holding and the transfer of forests to community property. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring the acquisition of electricity under a bilateral contract directly between the state-owned "National Atomic Energy Company Energoat" and the state-owned "East Mining and Power Management Company". Vasila Petyovka to the head of the Zacarpathian Road Service for the repair of roads in Yasinyan Village Council. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Bondar and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney-General on the inadequacy of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Sergio Mikolaiovich, who was in office. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Paulenka and others) to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine, the Attorney-General for the Verification of the Legality of the Decision, adopted by the officials of the General Directorate of the State Migration Service of Ukraine in the Odessa Region, on the annulment of the immigration permit and the removal of the permanent residence certificate in Ukraine in Polakov's Anatolija Viktorovich. Constantine Kasaya to the Attorney General’s Office on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct into the illegal extraction of sand in the village of Guyov, Kobelíka City Council of Poltavian Region. Constantine Kasaya to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the investigation of illegal sand mining in the village of Guyov, Kobelíka City Council of the Poltavian Region. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the continuation of the repair and construction of the roadways of general use of state importance in the Balgrad district of Odessa. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of certain issues of charging for heat energy by non-profit organizations of various forms of property that provide social and educational services to those who need them. Irina Konstankevich to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the establishment of a budget programme in the state budget for the implementation of the pilot project for the territorial defence tasks in the Volin region. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the roadways of general use of local value in the Lviv region, within the Ralovo territorial community. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the municipal streets of the Ralova District Community. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying activity of the health system and the direction of its promotion. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative social consequences of the increase in municipal tariffs. Veacheslava Rublov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funding for the restoration of the building of the Zaturtice Memorial Museum of Viacheslav Lipinsky in the village of Zaturca Volodymyr-Volinsk Region. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding the need for equipment for intensive treatment. Jani Zinkevich to the Medical Force Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the provision of medical kits and medical supplies to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the territorial defence force and the military reserve of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Bogdan Torochthi to the executive responsibility of the Rector of the State Biotech University on specific issues of the work of a scientist at the National Biotechnology University. Bogdan Torochthi to the executive responsibility of the Rector of the State University of Biotechnology to announce the procedure for public purchase of student tickets for higher education. Bogdan Torochthi to the executive responsibility of the Rector of the State Biotech University for the state of indebtedness of wages. Bogdan Thorochthi to the executive responsibility of the Rector of the State Biotech University for the state of indebtedness of the ordinary ordinary (academic) and social scholarships. Bogdan Torochthi, director of the University of State for Biotechnology, is responsible for the activities of the State University of Biotechnology. Bogdan Torochthi to the executive responsibility of the Rector of the State Biotech University for the activities of the State University of Biotechnology. Jury Kamelczuk to the head of the Lviv District State Administration, the Red Cross City Head, the director of the private company Rome on the need to remedy the defects and injuries on the Belz-Wanov-Island road. Natalia Pippa to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Minister of Energy of Ukraine for the Supply of Gas to Private Institutions of General Secondary Education. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of health-care workers and wage education. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the distribution of part of the rent for the use of the nadrama to extract useful mines of state and local value to the revenues of the district budgets. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the non-admission of officials of the Derjaudit Service before the audit. Alexander Kunickýk to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for providing information on the results of the verification of possible violations of the rules of law and the inaction of entities of authority. Vitalia Bezgina to the Executive Director of the All-Ukrainian Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, Association of United Territorial Communities, to provide information on the number and number of members of the All-Ukrainian Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, “Association of United Territorial Communities” (in particular, their territorial offices with a list of relevant local self-government bodies). Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Kyivgaz Shareholder Society on the use of measures to eliminate the consequences of the accident. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Ministry of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore property to municipal property. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Head of the State Inspectorate of Architecture and the City of Ukraine on the request of Nazarenk Alexia for an interpretation of the concept of "reconstruction" as a type of construction work. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Bondar and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Attorney General, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, to provide a legal assessment of the possible commission of corruption and other criminal offences during the construction of the satellite "Catch-2-30". Helen Copanczuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need to change the duration of the educational process in secondary education institutions. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of comprehensive measures by the government to counter the spread and the effects of acute respiratory disease SOVID-19. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition from 16 July 21st. Igora Guza to the Minister for Community Development and the Ukrainian territories on the rightfulness of charging for central heating networks to owners of apartments with individual heating. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to Cabinet Order No. 1391 of December 28, 21st, as part of the increase in wages for technical workers in the field of health. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on ensuring the right to sanatorium treatment of persons recognized by veterans in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Status of War veterans, veterans of internal affairs and some others and their social protection. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the review of the level of official salaries of teaching and teaching staff in the 22nd year. Gennady Watzak to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Director-General of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT, MOZ Ukraine, on urgent funding and treatment abroad for the disabled child of Satan's Z.S. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on improving legislation in the field of social services. Igor Guza to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to look for investments for construction and launching in the operation of Mine No. 10 "Novolinska". Anatolya Kostucha to the Uzhgorod City Head for the Modernization of Street Lighting Networks Anatoly Kostuh to the Director General of the Private Shareholders Association Zakarpatíoblenergo for the development of electricity networks in the area. Georgia Mazurasu to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issues raised by the liquidation of the state-owned company "Feofania Medical and Preventive Complex". Groups of National Deputies (Pipsy, Lozinski, Vasilchenko) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to respond to the attempt by the National Commission of Public Language Standards to raid the National Commission. Boris Prijejska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer to the respective communities and for the maintenance of the full functioning of energy companies in Montenegro, such as the branch of the Smolin Torfost Plant and the Irvatski Torfost factory of the Czernigovtorf State Enterprise. July of the Lighthouse to Prime Minister of Ukraine to raise the capital rate for medical personnel. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Kyiv City Public Administration, National Police of Ukraine on the use of measures to protect the constitutional right to housing. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development and approval of the terms and conditions of distribution and the use of funds for the implementation of budgetary programmes. Groups of National Deputies (Girl, Grishenko, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Provincial District Administration, the General Administration of the State Service of Ukraine with exceptional circumstances in the Žitomir Region, the National Police Directorate in the Žitomir Region, the Administration of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Žitomir Region with regard to the need to carry out technical inventory of protective facilities, to determine the state of readiness and functioning of the territorial system of centralised disclosure, and to take the necessary measures to ensure adequate civil protection of the population in the territory of the Žitomir region. Groups of National Deputies (Girl, Grishenko, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the State Labour Service of Ukraine, the Provincial District Administration for the Prevention of Labour Rights of Medical Workers, the Reduction of Medical Institutions and the Reduction of Workplaces in Medical Institutions in the Zitomir Region, as well as the need to take measures to obtain a targeted subsidy from the State Budget to finance their full-time salary. Maksim Zariński to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Czernovetsk District State Administration for the inclusion of a project for the reconstruction of the Komarov Cultural House in a general educational institution located in the territory of the Town Council of the Cherniewets region in the list of objects that can be implemented under the "Great Building" programme. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for contributing to the allocation of public budget funds for the capital repair of the water supply system in the town of Viznica Černovetsek region. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for temporary transport across the Prut River in the village of Glinic of the Cherniewecki region of the Cherniewice region. Maksim Zariski, head of the Czernovetsk District State Administration, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of a project for the construction of a sports complex with a swimming pool in the Czernovetsek district of Chernovetsek region in a list of objects that can be implemented under the Grand Building programme. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine for the preservation of maternity wards at the Putil Multi-Profession Hospital and the arrangement with them, with a contract for a package of maternity care. Alexia Kovalova to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the possible illegal actions of the state registry office of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs of the Herson City Council of O.V. Andreyev. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the amount of State aid for the birth (adopted) of a child. Jaroslav Jurčin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from February 15, 2022 No. 148. Yulia Ovovnikova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, on the project Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the implementation of an experimental project on the issue of a special permit for the use of forest resources (forestry ticket) and certificates of origin for timber products and manufactured pilomaterials". Anastasia Lashenko to the finance minister of Ukraine to increase the cost of purchasing medicines for people with rare (orphan) diseases. Artema Cnermoorova to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for information. Yulia Ovovnikova to the Head of the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine on the provision of information on heads of state-owned enterprises and district administrations of forest and hunting holdings on which they have violated environmental legislation and corruption. Denisa Maslov to the village head of the Dnipropetrovska Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov region for the provision of information and documents (decision) of the New Pavlov Rural Council of the Interstate Region of Dnipropetrov. And the last parliamentary request by Gregory Mamka to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the legal status of Ukraine's Law "To amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the implementation of international criminal and humanitarian law". These are all the MPs' questions for today. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor, Helen Costvina. Dear colleagues, we have completed our inquiries and are moving on to presentations on various issues. I'd like a colleague to sign up for the performance. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Melnik Pavel Viktorovich, faction of the political "Serve of the People". Please, Paul Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u124	Dear Chairman, dear Ukrainians! I want to draw the attention of law enforcement and control authorities to the facts of the illegal construction of the coastal recreational zone of Primorsk, Zaporozhye, we have a violation of Ukrainian legislation. An unconscionable, law - abiding entrepreneur on land on the coast of the Azov Sea has self - fledgedly built buildings used to accommodate resters and provide restaurant services. I'm going to say that catering services are provided to tourists in buildings that are not legally exploited. Budgets at all levels do not receive taxes that cause serious damage and affect the interests of the State, the local government, and the local people. I will note that these buildings are located on the hills and are directly close to the coastline, which can cause a landslide. It's dangerous to the health and life of people, because such a tragedy can happen at any moment. I took the matter personally. This situation has received widespread social resonance and publicity, both in regional and national media. As a result of my repeated appeals and collective parliamentary inquiries, the National Police, under the procedural direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office, is conducting a judicial investigation into the already established facts of arbitrary construction and self-occupied territories. Today, there are also results from the reaction of the prosecutor’s authorities to these facts. In order to protect the rights of local residents and to represent the interests of the community of Primorsk, Zaporizki District Attorney’s Office has begun to prepare a lawsuit for the destruction of these properties and the halting of the construction of new ones being carried out in an illegal manner. Recently, a collective parliamentary request was sent to the National Police and State Inspectorate of Architecture and Construction of Ukraine at the Ukrainian Supreme Council plenary meeting on 28 January this year, where one of the main requirements is the immediate cessation of illegal activity from resting in buildings that are not legally enforced because it is life-threatening. I appeal to the Attorney General, the Head of the National Police and the State Inspectorate of Architecture and Urbanization to take appropriate steps to revitalize the demolition of illegal buildings in the recreational zone of Primorsk, and to halt the illegal activity of resting in these houses. Please also draw the guilty to criminal responsibility in an illegal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u125	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikishi Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please, Dmitri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u126	Thank you. Mikisha Dmitro, 181 constituency, Kharkiv district, interfractional MPs association "Smart Politics". I'd like to ask oncology again. Oncological diseases, on the other hand, I repeat and point out that cancer is a plague of our time. And I would like to draw attention to exactly all levels of government, local self-government, to this problem. I realize that COVID is spreading in our country and around the world, but let's not forget the other diseases that have also happened in our country. And oncological diseases in this list are not at some distant tree, but at some of the first. I'd like to draw your attention to the Kharkiv Center of Oncology. As early as 2018, a project was developed for its reconstruction, but. And this reconstruction started, it was financed, there were costs, the contractor was doing his job. But a little later, the contractor was changed. The winner was a limited - liability society, with a statutory fund of 1,000 dollars. And we understand how jobs are going to be done, and that's how they're going to be done: constant delays, constant crashes, subcontractors can't get money from them. The state is funding, and several hundred million have been given just to build a suitable oncologist, but they are not being implemented. At last, the district government has the political will and has decided to break the contract with a limited company. But what are they doing? They dispute that and say that it is the district government that is hindering us. I fully support the ODA officials on this, the very right decision first of all, the deputy head of Kharkiv District Administration, Michael Harnam, who understands what needs to be done in order to finally build the online. And second of all, most of all. I don't understand, the people who work at this cancer center, the people who create the system, the effective system so that this whole mechanism that has helped people in the treatment of cancer, why can't people who have worked for five years now be managers again? And we finally made it, we changed the situation. The order of the minister of health changed the qualifications of the managers, and district directors should now be.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u127	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Žmerenecki Oleksija Sergiyovich, faction of the MP Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u128	Thank you. Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Alexy Zmerenecki, 190 district, Hmelnichtina Today I want to draw your attention, and more specifically, to the Ministry of Infrastructure, to the long-suffering city of Shepetovka, a city that for decades has received almost no money to rebuild, to upgrade infrastructure. This has led you to enter the city as if you were in a time machine — outdated traffic lights, unworkable lighting, damaged bridges, ruined roads, pedestrian zones, and so on. Last year, I engaged 15.5 million dollars in social and economic development money to rebuild the very infrastructure in Shepetovka. We were able to replace the lights, install new video surveillance cameras on the road, upgrade equipment, lights, this LED equipment that will save money in the city's lighting and increase safety and pedestrians, and roads. But there's one big problem that can't be solved with money for socio-economic development -- this is the so-called Sudilkov bridge. It is a city that connects the town of Shepetovka with key highways, with other cities in the area where people go daily, thousands of people, thousands of pedestrians go to work, take their children to gardens, go to school, and go home. This bridge is in a state of absolute emergency. A 200 - foot [200 m] bridge that passes through the 10 tracks of the Crossroad, it's already pouring, it's just pouring concrete, the road itself is broken. People go around, literally, they go around the pits to walk on this bridge. Part of the bridge on both sides, where the pedestrian zones are completely covered, because it's an emergency, people can fall off that bridge. For years, no funds were allocated. It's not about remodeling it, it's about developing project-based documentation. Last year, again with the money of socio-economic development, I sent a million and a half dollars for project design documentation, and it's going to be ready this year. The bridge itself, however, costs over 100 million dollars according to previous expert estimates. Obviously, the community budget can't possibly pull that off. Because I remind you that 15.5 million that I got involved last year is a quarter of the total budget for community development, which is more than 100 million in the community. Eleven members of the Hmelni district supported the request to the Ministry of Infrastructure for the preparation of project documentation on this bridge, so that it could still be made within the framework of "Great Building" or other subsidies to allocate money. Because when the cities start falling on the railways, when it leads to some major accidents, both road transport and rail transport, then I think we're not going to get our heads up and dig up the bigger trouble. So please note when the documentation is available, please allocate the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u129	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienek Alexandre Pavlovich, political party "Slut of the People", please. The word is given to Mazurash Georgiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u130	Welcome from Bukovina. First of all, I would like to address our President, Mr. Alexander Zelensky, from this rostrum. As a member of the President's "Serial of the People" team, I ask, and as an electorate I even demand, to ignore the red and other color of the line and to continue to do everything possible to bring the country closer to a peaceful solution. Because it's very easy to talk about what should be fought. Yes, we need to protect our lands, but it is very important to understand that a large number of our fellow citizens, being and living in an uncontrollable territory, are in a very difficult condition, especially now that the situation is on every side. And it's very important to make decisive efforts towards bringing peace back to the country, for which we elected President Vladimir Zelensky in 2019, and then we were elected as his team. And who really wants a solution to the military, I think the moral right to speak about the fact that only in this way can we solve the problem in eastern Ukraine are those, not even those who fought in the east, to whom honor and praise and respect and great gratitude, and those whose loved ones are now there, on the forerunner. I too have loved ones who are on the front page, and I do not want to risk any health and life as a citizen or as a national MP. The other one. I'd like to ask journalists to less manipulate, because manipulations have been slow lately. And so I pointed out that even in the context of a very pleasant event -- Alexander Abramenko's silver performance at the Beijing Olympics -- which I welcome again, and he's very grateful, even in this context, he's wise to manipulate, saying that he's not even a candidate for President Vladimir Zelensky yet, as if he's promised a sports palace there. I was especially involved in social networking, and it was not about a promise but about what was a great desire. If there is a desire, they will be fulfilled. And by the way, there are a lot of infrastructure sports projects that are initiated and supported by Vladimir Zelensky and are being implemented in different parts of Ukraine. And I'm very much asking my colleagues to support my legislative initiative to limit the maximum salary of the holder.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u131	Thank you. The word is given to the Feds of Sofia Romanovna, the faction of European Solidarity, please, the nominees of today. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u132	Dear Ukrainians, it's been such a hard time for me to have a birthday. 'Cause on February 18th, it's the day of the Mayan shooting. It's the day of the Debalt Cauldron. It's the day of the Sands last year. But at the same time, it is a time of a particularly complex phase of Moscow aggression today. And it's this day that makes you think about the basic values that are so fond of talking about in this room. And what we've seen recently is the President's Green Unity Day, which on January 16th turned into a day of unification, mummification of Soviet propaganda, and unfortunately turned into a day when everyone was enjoying the embroidery, the flags, forgetting what reality we're living in. And the next day, everyone was not interested, because the day of the paphos had passed. What do we have the next day? On February 17th, at 8:40, children's kindergartens in the Luhansk Stanica were shot and later shot at a school-aged man in Vrubovka, dozens of shellings across the line. And in fact, I think this was going to be a real day of unity of power with its people, because it was going to be the highest leaders of the state, not on safe boat trips, but in school, being in the garden, being where it's most difficult, and from there, turning to all the heads of state of the democratic countries to be united with Ukraine and condemning the international shooting of children. It should have been yesterday and today, a joint statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and an appeal to the parliaments of the democratic countries of the world to condemn the attack on Ukrainian children. And every diplomat, every delegate in Paris, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, NATO, the UN should receive a message from a photo, video and evidence of how the Moscow Federation is trying not only to break peace, but to reach out to the most expensive country in the world, every nation, for children. Unfortunately, this is done by volunteers, unfortunately, by the military, and there is a lack of it at our national level. And that's why I have great hope that since next week will be plenary, maybe we'll start a Tuesday plenary session with such a joint and solidarity appeal by the Ukrainian Supreme Council to the parliaments of all the nations of the world -- that's what will be true unity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u133	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u134	The speaker mentioned where the President is now. He's in the OOS now. But this raises a very interesting question: where was the leader of your faction in 2014 and 2015 when the Ukrainian military got into a boiler under Ilowaysk and a boiler in Debaltsev? Please tell me, where was Peter Prashenko? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sophia Romanovna, act normal! [[B in m in s a l in]] Peter Prashenko did not send his son to the front, he was sitting here in Parliament, while millions of Ukrainian sons and daughters died on Donbassa. And the question arises: Who is the president to whom and what is the price? The president of Ukraine is currently on the Donbasa collision line, where military action has now escalated. But on the other hand, on the other hand, we now have to say that a much greater threat is the mass hysteria, which includes your faction. Your faction didn't do anything in five years when it was in power: our GDP was very high, the economy was affected, Ukraine was poor, Ukraine was impoverished in 2014-2015. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, you made us poor, made us poor, made you richer. And including your faction, it's still unfolding this hysteria in order to gain a political rating in order to gain political speculation. And I have to say that not only is the faction of the former BP doing this, but one of the IFOs that exists in the Supreme Council. They realize that no one will give them more money to build, party building, and if they don't get the hap now, they just won't get into Parliament and go into the political past. So, Ukrainians, know who the friend is, who the enemy is, and who the price is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u135	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". While Yuri Ivanovich is on her way, dear colleagues, I would like to have respect for each other in our hall, respect for the right to speak, respect for freedom of speech. So let's listen to all the other things. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, I don't think that everything you said to someone in this room might not seem quite true either, but they kept their peace because they respect you as a national deputy, Mrs. Sofia. Please, Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u137	Please update your speaking time. And the phrase I just heard from a distinguished national MP, even on her birthday, is unacceptable, Mrs. Sofia. Once again, the phrase "close your mouth" is not a phrase that should be spoken by a national MP in the House of Parliament. Thank you, Sophia Romanovna. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u138	Thank you, colleagues, for your support, and for paying attention and giving me back my time. Thank you very much. This is precisely what the Supreme Hall says is that there is a healthy political nucleus that can work positively, usefully, productively on Ukraine in order to really solve the issue for the country, in order for the country to become rich and return its international rating and international status. When I go out to the rostrum, I want to break some of our daily, everyday lives again. If we open the Constitution of Ukraine, article 1 says that Ukraine is a state of law. If we read the 5th article of the Constitution, it is clear that the state authority in Ukraine is exercised on the basis of its division into legislative, executive and court. In his pre-election program, the candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, and now the acting President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexanderovich, clearly wrote down, quote: "The judicial branch of power must become the Authority (the word "Government" in capital letters), not the servant of the President, the government, parliament, the local government. We will restore trust and respect for the court." Very nice words, very good promise. Sadly, though, I would not like to say that this pre-election promise can be mere words. Because today, you all know very well, the paralyzed work of the Constitutional Court. Today there are obstacles to the work of the Supreme Court. And what we faced yesterday, the MPs of our political power, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life," is saying that today there is a threat to the work of the grass-roots judiciary. This is the case in the courts for Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk, the head of the strategic council of our political power. There was a meeting of the Cave Court. The court left the previous mark unchanged, home arrest. Every Ukrainian citizen has the right to press charges in court, to appeal. But the Pecher Court does not refer the case to an appeal for 38 days, thereby depriving a Ukrainian citizen of his right to defend himself. This is already, let us say, full of lawlessness and disrespect for the laws of Ukraine. And this confirms that, yes, there are really problems in the work of the judicial branch. And it is not possible to persecute a person simply because a person has openly declared and a politician has openly stated that he is in opposition to the political course of an active authority and has offered an alternative way of developing Ukraine. I am deeply convinced that the President will pay attention, and the judicial branch of power will really be in Ukraine by power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u139	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP, Aleksija Vasilovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u140	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Alexei Movchan, 150 constituency, Poltavščina, Kremenčucki district, Gorični Pravni Today I would like to talk about more ground-level things, but so important to every Ukrainian, especially the people of the Mountain Plains, I want to talk about tariffs. Mountain Swings is a city with a population of about 50,000. For its size, it has a fairly good budget, higher average per country, much higher than average. And that's why the city council often allocates the city budget to replenish the statutory capital, the statutory capital of utilities to upgrade their material base, to do separate jobs, and so on. It's about a utility called KPWH is just a water channel, a canal of the city of Gorishni Plavni. He's got a problem. The problem is that the water canal and its management have determined unwarranted tariffs for the population of the Mountain basins, resulting in losses but not budget losses, yes, but for the damage to every household in the city of Gorishni Bluvni. And they obviously lack the funds that MPs each year allocate from the local budget for the development of the utility company, and they actually decided to translate part of the cost into population. In 2019, according to the inhabitants of the Mountain Plains, the State Food Service carried out a verification of the utility’s compliance with the price regulation legislation and, in fact, an act was drawn up and a provision was made for the recalculation of tariffs to central water supply and central water supply. In fact, increased tariffs were found without legal grounds. In December 2021, a re-examination was carried out and regulations were issued accordingly, but neither from the 19th year nor from the 21st year, the municipal enterprise and its management did. I represent the interests of the inhabitants, of all the inhabitants of the Mountain Plains, and I believe that the water canal violates the legitimate rights of citizens to fair tariffs. So I'm going to the board of directors of the State Food Service and I'm going to have to recheck this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have four minutes left and two more speeches left. I now invite you to the speech of the Ukrainian national deputy Pusharenko Arsenija Mihajlovich. Then Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. And we're finishing today. Please, Arseny Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, yesterday all of us, the entire civilized world, witnessed the shootings that took place by the invaders. The shells kissed the kindergarten, the school, the private homes of our fellow citizens. All of us today are witnesses to the first world hybrid war. You can see how oppression is happening today. You see how today they manipulate the facts, how they're trying today through fairy tales, how they're misinformation, how they're trying to rock our nation, and how they're pushing our nation's leadership, and how they're trying to get the Supreme Council to the so-called Minsk Accords, which were written and signed precisely not in the interests of Ukraine. But today our political position with you, and from this rostrum during this week, many of our colleagues from different states have been speaking out, standing up. And our Armed Forces today are one of the best Armed Forces in Europe, and perhaps in the world. Because in eight years of war. And with regard to the weapons that continue to come to Ukraine today, and with regard to the preparation and experience of hostilities, our army defends itself every 8 years. And the experience that is today, the knowledge, they are unique. And that reinforces, I repeat, the weapons that are today that are still coming. We're ready. And the President's initiatives with which he left today are an increase of 30 percent in the salaries of the Armed Forces from March 1st, and at least three minimum salaries of military personnel from January 1st 2023; this is a professional army from the 24th, and this is an increase of 100,000, today they will only increase our positions in this war with the Russian Federation. I would like to point out that the "Serial of the People" throughout the country during this week initiated sessions of local councils in turn. And today, the need that exists in the formation of the territorial defense of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is assured today. And so far, bureaucratic moments are still taking place, because territorial defense funds are budgeted, but there are certain procedures that are state-owned. And while accounts are being opened and public funding is coming in, today we've all managed to secure territorial defense together at the expense of local budgets. And that's important, and that gives us even more confidence today, with territorial defense. I also want to point out that on the past weekend, and on these days, together with my colleagues, we're going to the border point of the "Extreme Show" in Zitomyrski, tomorrow we're going to have the Baltic ambassadors, our international partners, to monitor and control the situation. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u143	Heroim Slava! And it's final for today. Mikashi? And Mikisha was doing it so we wouldn't have it. Come on, Alexander Sergiyovich, we'll be interested to hear from you. Please, Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, the distinguished national deputies! As a member of the law enforcement committee, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are isolated cases of law enforcement officials, particularly in the areas of political neutrality, their adherence to the oath and their compliance with Ukrainian legislation. And first of all, I want to focus on the fact that the Committee on Law Enforcement is going to fix this and work it out. Special meetings and consideration of these relevant issues will also be initiated at meetings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Protection. On weekends, I want you all to have a quiet weekend. May our great Ukrainian people remain calm. We have the best Armed Forces in Ukraine, they will protect us. Glory to Ukraine! It'll all be Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-18-m0.u145	Thank you. It's a beautiful, optimistic note. Heroim Slava! Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, I remind you that the next meeting of the Conciliation Council will take place on Monday 21 February at 11 a.m. and the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday 22 February at 10 a.m. In this plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. (Traditional photo, please.)
