ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, request to take your seats. Dear colleagues, request to take your seats. Please note that by 3 p.m., we have a medium. Mediaditta by 3 p.m. Please inform your assistants and press secretary. Because last time there was a violation of this principle by assistants and press secretarys themselves. So I'm stressing that everyone should be aware of this. We do all the publications after 3:00. Welcome to the birthday of the National Deputies on which today's birthday is due.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the glory of Ukraine! As you all remember, we have not closed our plenary session, so today, according to our decision to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of an extraordinary and military state, as proposed by the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues. Now, before the anthem, I'll imagine who we have. Ladies and gentlemen, this difficult time for our country in Ukraine is visited by our great friends, highly esteemed foreign guests. Head of the Fair of the Republic of Latvia, Ms. Inara Murnierce. Hello. Speaker of the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania, Mrs. Victoria Chmilite-Nilsen. And the head of Rigikogu of the Republic of Estonia, Mr. Yuri Ratas. Hello. There are also members of the Parliament of Georgia present at the plenary. Hello. Dear colleagues, we are proud of the level of mutual understanding and solidarity between our countries and highly appreciate your consistent firm support for independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity. Dear colleagues, on this sign day according to our good tradition, let's begin our meeting with the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, this is March 24th. Just a month ago, the Russian Federation launched a full-scale war against Ukraine. The moon of our integrity. The historical truth shows that you will never win a war in vain with the people. And the Ukrainian people prove this truth every day in a determined battle against the second army of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to honor the moment of silence of our fallen hero soldiers who, in the war with the Russian invaders, have given their lives most dearly, in self-deserving independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, democratic values and worthy of the future of our nation in a civilized world. Let us also honor the memory of all peaceful citizens who were innocently killed by the Russian army. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on the Conciliation Council that we will begin our session with the welcoming words of our fellow speakers who have arrived today in Ukraine. It is with great pleasure that I invite the Head of the Seima of the Republic of Latvia, the distinguished Mrs. Inar Murnierce. Let's say hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u3	Mr. Ruslan, dear friends! I want to say that I have the great privilege of being here, in your gut, in such a terrible time from this very day forward. We have come to express our unity with you, to express the brotherhood and sisterhood that we feel toward the Ukrainians, also to express our love for Ukraine. And it's also very important that it's the call of our society, it's the expression of the feelings of all Latvians. Your fellow Ukrainians have come to Latvia, and we show our hospitality, do everything we can to make them feel at home in our country. And this proves the deep ties we have between the two countries. Dear colleagues, I would like to express my admiration for the Ukrainian nation for such a terrible time. You're brave, you're big, and with the help of other nations, you'll win. I have no doubt that you will win, and I have no doubt about it for a moment. All the hard times will pass, and we will win, we will conquer, sooner or later the victory will follow us. As the head of Parliament from me to Mr. Ruslan, Head of your Parliament, I would like to express my admiration for President Zelenski, your Prime Minister, your government, your local self-government, which work very, very effectively without regard to war. These are real heroes, heroes who are in their place, here in Ukraine. But my colleagues and friends from our Parliament, I would like to express my admiration for you, honourable deputies. Despite the war, all the atrocities that are being committed here on Ukrainian soil on the side of the toll regime, what an aggressor does, Parliament works, it gathers, it works, and it is an expression of true democracy in the Ukrainian state. [[Applause]] So I would like to say that a while ago it seemed impossible for such a terrible war to happen here on the European continent, in his heart. But what happened happened, and we couldn't imagine it, but it became our reality. We're going to get through this, we're going to win here. We're here to see you. We're staying with you. You have friends in the Baltic countries, you have friends in the European Union, you have friends who will do everything they can to get you into the European Union with a short, fast procedure. We'll do everything we can to help Ukraine. I mean very difficult sanctions against Russia, isolation of the Russian regime as aggressive, and that means political unity with Ukraine, and that means practical things, that means practical assistance, all assistance to armed and peaceful people. It's going to happen, we're going to win, we're going to win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to invite you to speak to the speaker of the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania, Mrs. Victoria Cmillier-Nilsen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen of the brave and proud nation. [[Applause]] Brothers and sisters, that's how we talk. Now to our Lithuanian organization, in 919, this archer organization rose up to fight for our freedom, and I joined it a few weeks ago. Our country is fascinated by your feats. Brothers and sisters -- that's what we call all Ukrainians fighting for their freedom, for their dreams, for the future of their children. A month has passed since Russia’s brutal attack against the beautiful Ukraine began. This has already led to severe ruins, but beyond that, it has brought great suffering to millions of people. I have four sons and a heart is broken when I see babies hiding from bombs, mothers running from broken homes, and the last kiss of people getting divorced because of war. I visited Ukrainian women who came to Lithuania a week ago, and they shared their stories, and I saw the sadness and the pain in their eyes, that's really true. But I was not surprised by their determination, their loyalty to my own country. The unbreakable spirit that echoes in the hearts of many Lithuanians, in my own heart, because I have Poltarian origins among other things -- it's the blood of my ancestors that beats into my heart. But today I stand before you first as a politician, and I promise that my country will do everything it can to help refugees fleeing the horrors of war. It's our duty, it's what we owe you because you don't just reflect the brutal aggressor attack that weighs on your cities and villages. It is not easy to demonstrate the wonders of courage and strength of the day. But the fight, the Ukrainian struggle for freedom, is the fight for our shared freedom and the common future of Europe. Europe understands that. The Putin plan may have been to divide Europe, divide and conquer, but this has the opposite effect. This war brought us together. Europe has never been so united for a long time. Yeah, we need more. If the international community cannot close the sky in Ukraine, at least we could now give a very clear prospect of a European future for Ukraine. Along with Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk, we, the three heads of parliament, have signed a special statement to support all necessary procedures for the country's rapid entry into the European Union, a democratic European country has the greatest victories, and this is a nightmare that visits to road dreams. From our three Baltic countries, we can say that we are united and act together, we will always demand reprisals, answers to a brutal aggressor, in order to safeguard the integrity of Ukraine’s territory in internationally recognized borders. We need to continue to provide materially substantial assistance in defence, diplomacy, economics, and humanitarian aid. At the same time, we should not forget what is to come, if it is necessary to reproduce, to build Ukraine. When the war is over, we will stand for a reconstruction plan, similar to the former Marshall Plan, in order to reinvigorate Ukraine's enhanced economy. Ukraine has made its choice democratically. You can't question that. And when an aggressor raises ultimatums against such a country, it's not just anachronism that's difficult and dangerous to our history, it's also a violation of international law, it's a crime, it's not just a political responsibility. I'm sure our leaders will finally look at the consequences. And those who have done so must be held accountable in the fullness of the law. Those who have not actively protested, who have supported even aggression, should also look into the consequences of war and bear their responsibility. Apathy to aggression is actually the support of that aggression. Brothers and sisters, you have fought for a month, and you have won the hearts of all the nations of the world. You have shown what it is like to be free in the blood. You've shown that it's about giving up everything you can, in the interest of the country, to do everything you can. And we'll do everything we can. We're together, we're standing side-by-side with you. I'm sure Ukraine will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u6	Thank you very much, dear Victoria. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to invite you to the floor of the Head of the Rigikogo Republic of Estonia, Mr. Jury Ratas. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Ruslane, dear colleagues, dear friends! It is a great privilege for me, from all our Baltic countries, to speak at this session, just one month after the beginning of the Russian attack on Ukraine. We are all overjoyed to see your courage. Ukraine will win war because you love your country, your people, and your freedom. [[Applause]] On February 24th, the Estonians woke up to celebrate the 104th anniversary of our declaration of independence. We thought it would be a joyous, joyous day. Instead, at 4:00, we woke up and learned that Russia had started a full-scale war against Ukraine. I was preparing a joyful festive talk, raising our flag. I copied the speech and told our people that we, the Estonians, also have democratic freedom. A country in central Europe, a country in central Europe, a great European country must fight for its integrity and independence. We're standing side by side with the Ukrainians in this fight. Estonia, like many other democratic countries, has risen up to support Ukraine, a broad range of support: political, military, humanitarian, but much more needs to be done to support your struggle is the moral responsibility of every democratic country. Your victory will be our victory. Thousands and thousands of Estonians offer their assistance with funds, resources, and shelter to refugees from Ukraine. Our Parliament has passed a law to close the Ukrainian sky, and this law becomes effective immediately. We do not need to fear the criminal Putin; Ukraine must get the right weapons immediately to defend itself and attack, attack, give back, the international community must give you all the weapons you need. The spirit of Ukraine reminds us of our integrity, and we are proud of you and admire you. The whole world is learning from your resilience, and we support a complete embargo, a trade embargo against Russia. Ukraine’s international support is unprecedented, but it must become even larger for a longer period. Ukraine wins war, Russian power is defeated, they are expelled from Ukrainian land, and Ukrainian independence will be fully restored. We will have to rebuild cities, villages and, at that time, Ukraine's accession process to the EU is about to begin, and we need to speed it up. Ukraine deserves, you deserve to become an official candidate, your country needs to become an official candidate for joining the European Union right now. Dear friends, there is such a saying that the darkness is the greatest before dawn, and you see how much destruction you have, but still. Lesya Ukraine used to say in her famous poem "Unhopeless" ("Contra Spam Spero"). [[Applause]] "Yes, I'll laugh through the tears, amid the calamities of singing songs, with no hope, I'll live! Go away, the words are sad." (Applause) Dear friends, dear colleagues, dear Ruslane, I had the opportunity to visit Ukraine early in February this year. I was talking then, and I was talking then, and now I'm saying, you're never going to be alone with this terrible force, it's not just words, it's I want to repeat these words to all people, 26 February I repeated these words, I repeat this promise. Here, Ruslan, this big interesting painting that allows you to look at the great Estonian support of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, let us once again thank our distinguished guests for participating in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the firm and unbreakable support of Ukraine in these difficult times. It's nice to know that friendly countries are always around. I especially want to thank Inari and Victoria for their courage to be here. Thanks a lot, guys! Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is taking part in today's session. Please welcome. [[Applause]] Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich, for everything! Dear colleagues, we also have a video to refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the President of the European Parliament of the Honourable Mrs. Roberta Metsola, also from the Marshall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Poland, Mrs. Elzbeta Vitek, and also from the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Mr. Tomas Grodsky. So, dear colleagues, please show me. Let us thank once again the distinguished guests for participating in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Ukraine’s firm and unbreakable support. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's get to work. Today we also have the birthdays of our fellow members of the national deputies of Yulia Yurivni Ovčinnikov, Dmitri Alexanderovich Gurin, Maxim Igorovich Pashkovski. Let us also welcome them. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the results of the vote on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and take part in the signal vote, press the "yes" button. Dear colleagues, ready for a signal vote? Dear colleagues, please take part in the signal vote. [[14:00:00]] For – 335 There are 335 people's deputies in the hall. Therefore, honourable national deputies, let us move on to the issues of today’s order. I want to remind you that the entire agenda has been worked out by the Conciliation Council, so we agree that some of the issues we have voted on, as we have agreed, are by consensus: inclusion, as a whole, and some of the issues we vote for inclusion and as a basis. So, dear fellows, let's begin. I am putting to the vote a draft decree on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Commission, the European Parliament and other international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies, parliaments and governments of the member states of the European Union and NATO, parliaments and governments of the democratic states of the world on the need to take additional joint action to halt the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and to prevent this aggression from spreading to other countries of Europe (Registration No. 7188). I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a whole the necessary technical and legal amendments (draft Decree No. 7188). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:01:44]] For – 353 Decision taken. Next. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve legislation during the war period (project registration number 7190). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? 7190. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:02:35]] For – 353 Decision taken. Next bill. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Additional funding to counter COVID-19 under the Long Term Funding Project) between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (registration No. 0133). I would like to make an offer to accept, in general, if additional documents are available to the CMU. I'm willing to take the offer in total 0133. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:03:25]] For – 361 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question we have is the release of the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Leschenko Roman Mikolaiovich from office. According to article 85, part 12, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine and the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are to be released from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. On March 23, 2022, according to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Leszczenko Roman Mikolaiovich submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a request to accept his resignation as Minister of Agricultural Policy and Food of Ukraine. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, part one of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine puts to the vote the proposal to release Lechchenk Roman Mikolayovich from his post as Minister of Agricultural Policy and Food of Ukraine on the basis of his application for resignation. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:04:47]] For – 321 Decision taken. Therefore, I would like to ask the identification committee, along with the apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have made. Let's move on, dear fellows. The following Bill 7178 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of conditions for food security under military conditions. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law 7178. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:05:41]] For – 337 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we're still going to have drafts of Laws 4417, 4417-1, 6417, I'm sorry, 6417-1, 6417-2, these are drafts of the Law amending the Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons on Retirement in the event of the loss of a breadwinner. I propose to accept as a basis and, in general, taking into account the committee's proposals, Bill 6417 and the necessary technical and legal amendments to it. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote, 6417 accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[2:06:44]] For – 359 Decision taken. Next Bill 5583. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. It's a second reading. So I'm proposing a second reading and, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 5583. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:07:29]] For – 354 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7179. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of Governmental Authorities and Officials. I propose to include it in the agenda of the day session and to take it as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 7179. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:08:11]] For – 363 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. I'm voting on the next bill 7182. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the effectiveness of fighting cybercrime in the context of the state of war. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. This is Bill 7182. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[2:08:57]] For – 360 Decision taken. Next Bill 7181. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 263 of the Criminal Code to abolish liability in cases of voluntary surrender of arms, ammunition, explosives or devices. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7181. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:09:46]] For – 358 Decision taken. Next Bill 7184. This is a draft of the Act amending the National Police Disciplinary Statute for the Assignment of Special Police Appointments during the War. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7184. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:10:30.]] For – 358 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7186. This is a draft law amending the Criminal and Criminal Codes of Criminal Procedure to improve responsibility for collaborative activities and the specificity of preventive measures for committing crimes against the foundations of national and public security. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7186. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:11:21]] For – 350 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 7185, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7185. Honorable colleagues, heads to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:12:08]] For – 358 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 3793, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Ensuring the Extensive Expansion of Exports of Goods (Work, Services) by Insurance, Guarantee and Loss of Export Credit" to ensure the Effective Functioning of the Export Credit Agency I propose to adopt in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments Bill 3793. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:12:57]] For – 353 Decision taken. The next Bill 7146 is a draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on responsibility for the use of humanitarian aid during the war. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7146. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:13:42]] For – 356 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I bet the following Bill 7153 is a bill amending the laws of Ukraine on the central executive authorities and on the legal regime of the state of war to ensure that the state is governed under martial law. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7153. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:14:27]] For – 331 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The following Bill 7132 is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in the field of education. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law 7132. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:09]] For – 348 Decision taken. The following Bill 7173 is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the order of matters relating to prisoners of war during a special period. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law 7173. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:15:52]] For – 352 Decision taken. The following Bill 7180 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the principles of organisation and the movement of resistance. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7180. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:16:35]] For – 352 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7189. This is a draft law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine to ensure that information about the deployment, transfer of international military assistance to Ukraine, movement, movement or deployment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine or other military formations of Ukraine is not authorized. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7189. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:45]] For – 346 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Alexander Sergiyovich, we have now voted on all the laws that we have laid today as a foundation and as a whole. Then we'll have some laws in the first reading. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sign the bills just adopted by the Supreme Council and send them to the President immediately. If there's no objection, I'm putting this motion to a vote. This is about the bills that we voted for. Please vote. [[14:18:28]] For – 348 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am at once taking advantage of the opportunity. A statement was made by the Ukrainian National Deputies about their withdrawal from the MP's faction, “The Opposition Platform — For life." These are national deputies Gnatenko Valerij Sergiyyovich, Kisilov Igor Petrovich, Lukashev Alexander Anatoliyovich, Frost Vladimir Viktorovich, and Adjective Natalija Igorovna. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal of national deputies from the faction. And I also report that in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to this statement, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich from the MP's Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have some bills that we agreed to vote on in the first reading, which is to take as a basis. Therefore, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm putting a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on monitoring potential threats to Ukraine's national security in the field of economics. This is Bill 7176. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to accept as a basis only and, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules, to shorten half of the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments for the preparation of the draft for the second reading (7176). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:20:18]] For – 323 Decision taken. Next Bill 7183. This is a draft Ukrainian law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve the order of criminal conduct under conditions of war, state of emergency. I propose to include in the agenda of the day and to accept as a basis and, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules, to shorten half the deadline for submitting proposals and amendments for preparing the bill for second reading (7183). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:21:05]] For – 330 Decision taken. Next bill, 6416. This is a draft of the Act amending section X, paragraph 3, of the Act on Public Procurement, on the purchase of medical supplies, medical devices and aids to them by a person authorized to purchase in the field of health care, and on the involvement of specialized purchasing organisations. I propose to include in the agenda of the day and to accept as a basis, and, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules, to shorten by half the time to submit proposals and amendments for the preparation of the bill for the second reading of Bill 6416. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:22:02]] For – 333 Decision taken. The following Bill 7187 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation (for the right of the Ukrainian National Deputy to serve on the military under contract in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Armed Forces territorial defence force and the voluntary formation of the territorial communities during the wartime period). I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a basis the committee's proposal to take the proposed clarifications into account when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready for 7187? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:22:56]] For – 347 Decision taken. The next bill, 7192, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. I propose to include in the agenda of the day and to accept as a basis, and, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules, to shorten by half the time to submit proposals and amendments for the preparation of the bill for the second reading of Bill 7192. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:23:42]] For – 349 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have just released the Minister of Agrarian Politics, we are moving on to the question of the appointment of the Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food. According to articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the Political Party "The Servant of the People", which includes the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council the application of the appointment of Soloy Mikola Tarasovich as Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss and present this issue? None. So let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal for the appointment of the Sole Mikola Tarasovich Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:25:24]] For – 294 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision we have made with the Apparatus. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" in the case of submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an application for the appointment of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a person who is a national deputy of Ukraine, are added to the submission of a personal statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy on the term of appointment of a deputy in the case of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The question of the composition of Ukraine’s national deputy office is addressed immediately after its appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the same meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Tarasovich Solski wrote an application for his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine put to the vote the proposal to suspend the term of office of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nikola Tarasovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:26:59]] For – 328 Decision taken. I ask the Committee on Rules of Procedure, along with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the day of his appointment, before taking office, shall make an oath at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine Mikola Tarasovich Solski is invited to the rostrum. Please, Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u11	Thank you, colleagues. Recognizing the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the steady and democratic development of society. Thank you all again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u12	And we thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. [[Applause]] You're a fine national MP, a reformer. And we want what you've taken here to be embodied there. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, all the questions that were scheduled for adoption today have been considered. I want to thank all the national deputies for their fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of our next meeting in advance. Dear fellows, with us is the truth, God is with us! We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Victory will follow us! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-24-m0.u13	We remind you of the medium by 3 p.m. Please keep your hands where I can see them.
