ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our orders to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and the "Organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022" proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. A delegation of the Senate of the French Republic led by the Senate Head of the Senate, Mr. Gerard Larche, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Please welcome the distinguished Mr. Larch and the delegation of the Senate of the French Republic. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with a good tradition of performing the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! For 136 days now, the Ukrainian people and their heroic army have given a decisive answer to the Russian occupation. We will never forget the feat and self - sacrifice of Ukraine’s defenders and protectors. I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the memory of the hero soldiers who died in the struggle for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Eternal glory, eternal memory of heroes! We also honor the memory of peaceful citizens who died as a result of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear Mr. Head of the Senate, our great friend, is pleased to welcome you to the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A month has passed since the day we met during my visit to the French Republic. Mr. President, I thank you so much for your warm welcome and for having responded so quickly to my invitation to visit Ukraine. At this difficult time, your support is of great importance to all the Ukrainian people. On behalf of the Parliament, we express France's deep appreciation for the mobilization of the support of the member states of the European Union to grant Ukraine candidate status as members of the European Union. For the Ukrainian people, achieving full membership in the European Union is a strategic goal. Yesterday we signed a Declaration of Purposes for Parliamentary Partnership between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Senate of France. This is a next step to deepening and strengthening bilateral ties between our nations. A major reconstruction plan for Ukraine was recently presented in Switzerland. We are counting on France's active participation in the implementation of this plan. We highly appreciate the military-technical assistance that comes from your state, and we are particularly grateful for the transfer of heavy weapons such as the SAU CAESAR. [[Applause]] We also celebrate the active efforts and leadership of France in the imposition of sanctions against Russia and thank you for the adoption of the sixth package of sanctions of the European Union. It is very important to put pressure on the aggressor and show him that the unity of the civilized world remains at the highest level. We also express our gratitude for the weighty humanitarian assistance that France has been providing for both our citizens and Ukraine as a whole for a long time. Taking this opportunity yesterday, I said that I would invite you and the delegation of the Senate of the French Republic to participate in the summit of the Crimea Platform scheduled for the fall of this year, which will take place on a parliamentary scale. Therefore, honourable members of the people, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have the honour to invite you to the floor of the Honourable Head of the Senate of the French Republic, Mr. Gerar Larche.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u2	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, deputy heads! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear colleagues! The Honourable Ambassador of France to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, I recognize the great honor that you are doing to me, and in my person, the Senate and the Parliament of the French Republic, accepting me in this room this morning as part of your plenary meeting with the delegation that is accompanying me. Let me introduce her. Senator Jean-François Rapen, head of the European Affairs Committee. Senator Patrick Canner, former minister who heads the main opposition group in our assembly, a group of socialists, environmentalists, and republicans. Senator Nadia Sologub, head of the Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Group France-Ukraine. [[Applause]] You've all understood how much she's doing for our mutual friendship. Along with her, Senator Erve More, the honorary head of this group of friends. I also appreciate the presence among us of Senators Alan Millon, the first deputy head of the French delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as Mr. Pascal Alliser, deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Armed Forces of the Senate, the first deputy head of the French delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The list of these names and positions shows that this is a Senate in general, in all its various positions and tasks in the field of parliamentary diplomacy, which wanted to stand before you today in Kiev. Mr. Head, it is truly an honor to be in these walls today, which is a symbol of your national institutions, at a time when your country's fate is written in bloody letters of war. The moment of silence that we all just had together reminds us of this. The sacrifice of your daughters and your sons every day fits into a harsh reality that we must all be aware of and that we must be involved in. Yes, I would like to honor all of you on behalf of the Senate of the French Republic today. The honor of the entire nation, the French nation, which is rooted in parliamentaryism. A tribute from a centuries-old European nation that has shared with you Queen Anna Jaroslavna. Respect for the entire country of Ukraine is the legacy of such ancient history in the heart of the European continent. Ukraine is an heiress of such ancient history, as well as its fate, which is from now on European. I want to honor your Armed Forces and your people for their bravery and their numerous sacrifices in battle, both on the front and in the back, in the fields, in the workshops, in businesses and in institutions. An entire nation has risen up to reject the slavery Russia wanted to impose on it because it is a nation that protects its land first. I want to honor President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, who, with unprecedented courage in those dark days, embodied the spirit of resistance and freedom of all Ukraine. I would, of course, like to welcome your head, the head of the Ruslan Stefanchuk Supreme Council, the tireless defender here and abroad. I want to express to him our feelings of friendship on behalf of the entire French Senate. There are fights that, because they make sense, bring about future victories. The French of my generation, the heirs of the Golism, well know that. Because of their courage, Ukrainians today are a source of respect and inspiration for all the countries that support them. In addition to the bravery of your fellow countrymen, dear colleagues, how much your national institutions weighed and weighed today, the continuity of democracy, the strength of the structures of your state and its territorial communities. In the worst trials, you have maintained a political regime that respects Parliament’s prerogatives and the authority of its advisory powers. In these walls, in the Supreme Council building, the heart of European Parliamentarianism also beats. In addition, I remember that it was your Parliament, with the support of the French Senate in particular, that I passed the Decentralisation Act in Ukraine. Who would have thought that every region, every municipality, every mayor along with the Ukrainian government would be called by circumstances and by the power of decentralization to form each of its own centers of resistance, to help the population that is in a difficult situation, to mobilize resources to meet the needs of the front, and finally to make such an effective contribution to the efforts that this war requires. The Ukrainian local communities -- and the French Senate is also a representative of the local communities in our republic -- these local communities are becoming obstacles in the way of threats, like the kind of protective shafts. I would like to extend a solemn welcome to you in your presence to the heads of the city, to the heads of the district administrations, to the deputies of the local councils who are leading them. By voting for centralization, your assembly also ensured the unity of the nation, the power of the state, and social salvation. I want to touch the European Union. This is where, in this hall marked by history, President Zelensky, Prime Minister Schmigal and your Head Stefanchuk signed on February 25, when Ukraine seemed to fall, an application to become a candidate for membership in the European Union. What a will! What a symbol! February 25th. That day in this room, in the uncertain light of the windows covered with sandbags, when your country was under attack and siege, history was written. On 24 June, the European Council unanimously adopted a decision, namely, unanimously and unanimously, honourable colleagues, to recognise your country as a candidate for the EU. We are proud that this has taken place for the headship of France in the European Union. Ukraine, like Moldova, thus saw Europe’s destiny open to them in an unrestrained manner. This is obviously the result of your efforts to get closer to Acquis communautaire, as well as the firm determination that emerged during the Maydan Revolution, long before Russian aggression. This is also the result of the mobilization of a united Europe around you, including European Parliaments. On March 3rd of this year, in the French Senate, we spoke with you, Mr. Heado, in Paris, and on March 3rd, when, at a joint meeting of the European Parliamentary Committees, the 27 member states of the Union, as part of the parliamentary measure of French EU headship, I publicly advocated granting Ukraine candidate status. The President of the French Republic, Emmanuel Macron, as well as the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Italian Republic, the Chancellor of Germany, also the President of the Romanian Republic, expressed themselves in that sense in a consistent manner with the power of their powers during their visit to Kiev on June 16. And this is now done: Ukraine, thanks to its merits and achievements, has become a candidate for membership. Dear colleagues, what a joy to see in this room the European flag next to the Ukrainian flag and its 12 stars on the blue background, which, I remind you, is a symbol of unity and hope. This flag, which we now share, unites us from Paris to Kiev and from Kiev to Brussels. You've been told and told that the path to integration into the European Union will be long. And I know that you are fully aware of the difficulties that will come. But this in no way reduces the scale of the decision taken. A truly historic step was taken on June 24, this year. The French Senate and the numerous other national parliaments of Europe will be with you in the coming months to implement this candidate status so that from now until the decision to enter your country and your people will immediately reap the concrete benefits of your relationship with the European Union. Robert Schumann, one of the founding fathers of Europe, said, "Europe cannot or should not be essentially an economic and technical project. She needs a soul, a humanistic ideal." And this soul, this humanistic ideal, is now embodied by the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, along with the Ukrainian people, you defend and demonstrate, to the highest degree of sacrifice, the values on which Europe and the free world are founded. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, dear colleagues! Ukraine will also move us beyond our support, our enthusiasm for the face of reality. Without a doubt, my country and others, despite your warnings, did not properly appreciate what you then called a Russian threat. I'm thinking with our friends from the Baltic countries. We were in Lithuania last December. A threat that eventually turned into an act of aggression. It seems to me that collectively we should humbly acknowledge this today. Such recognition imposes special obligations on us today, both in the present and in the future. We have been and will be with you and will continue to help you as long as it takes in the long run at all levels, including the military. Ukraine must be able to defend itself on an equal footing with its aggressor without delay. A Chinese sage said that friends, they are like stars, and they are easier to count in dark times. Even the day after day, our embassy, whose work I want to welcome, did not leave Ukrainian territory. I would like to welcome to you the special courage of our Ambassador Etienne de Ponceen, and with him all his colleagues who have held on to even the most difficult moments. This constant presence with you and for you has allowed my country one of the first to provide you with the support you so badly needed. I mean, the senator who represents the local communities of France, the columns of emergency fire and rescue equipment that came from all over France. I think about it, too. I mean the mission of forensic experts from the National Gendarmerie who have been here since April 11th to assist you, under the leadership of the Attorney General of Ukraine, in investigating the war crimes committed in the cities of martyrs of Irpan, Butch and Borodjanka. Yes, the honourable colleagues, the cities I visited yesterday with my colleagues, and where we were able to see for ourselves that barbarism, which we thought was already a legacy of history, is not a stranger to our century or to our European continent. Let me also address the point I had yesterday, visiting that church in Butch, to offer you the same respect for those who have fallen victim to the unacceptable: men, women, children, defenseless, who have fallen victim to this aggression. Their death to the depths of our soul concerns us. [[A Minute of Silence]] I declare it with all solemnity. Your defeat would be our collective defeat. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, answering questions about the continuation of the war, Raymond Poancare, who was President of the French Republic during World War I, answered: The front will hold if it holds back. There are also 27 member states of the European Union that have to hold on to the face of this war, which is going on and the consequences of which are global in various ways. The risk of a certain form of fatigue cannot be explicitly rejected. I'm saying to tell you the truth about the things that are happening today. Ukrainians, like other Europeans, like the French, do not see war, they do not want this war, they want peace. But you have to fight to protect your country, and you have to do it until you free the occupied territories, and in accordance with the goals that you have set, and that you alone can determine, and only you, to set and achieve these goals. Negotiations are not conducted under bombs, under constant threat, under the occupation of parts of your territory. Dear colleagues, Bossue wrote, "Reprove crimes means condemning innocence." And that would be an insult to peace. Those who are far from here, far from the suffering and realities in which you live, far away from Ukraine, will take faith in the words of weakening interest or even giving up their positions. We need to answer without bending over how you do it and how we do it with you. Beware of misinformation campaigns, inspire the determination of the Ukrainian people to resist and endure the most terrible suffering. Consider the consequences of decisions that can legitimize dominance for collective security, even beyond Europe. To your aggressors, if they were tempted to wager tiredness in support of France and Europe or split, I say with the same conviction: to make such a bet, that means one foot to go down. And you Ukrainian friends, be assured that with every new crime, deliberately committed against the civilian population, with every new terror against your people, with every new martyr city, our determination to help you is being revived with new strength and becoming more and more stable. Entering the liberated Paris on August 25, 1944, General de Gaulle, the "Remembrances of War" I gave to my colleague, uttered words that became famous to give due courage to the Parisians who had overthrown the Nazi yoke. He said, "Paris is offended, Paris is broken, Paris is tortured, but Paris is free." Allow me and my colleagues in turn to pay our respects to Ukraine, the offended, Ukraine is troubled, but Ukraine is soon freed because that is what your struggle and our support are all about. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, may the free Ukraine live and let the friendship between Ukraine and France live!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u3	Let us, honourable colleagues, thank once again the Grand Head of the Senate and the delegation for their participation in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council and Ukraine's undeniable support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Now we're going to make a signal vote so everyone knows if the buttons work there and so on. Colleagues, the delegation is still in Kiev. We'll be able to interact with her. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the signal vote. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote and press the "yes" green button. I remind you, it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the green pros button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Please vote. [[10:38:59]] For the 250. Do you need to say it again? Are they all there? We're here. Okay. Then let us move on to the day - to - day issues. A list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board is given to you. Let us go to his consideration. First question. Draft Decision No. 7535: Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call". I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:39:57]] For 226 Decision taken. Colleagues, we agreed without the authors. And let's just write it down: two in, two in, two in, against. We have one faction who wanted to speak. Maybe others. Ah, two factions. And then we write: two in, two in, two in. "European Solidarity." Irina Volodymyrna or who will? Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u5	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, you and I are now discussing the issue of traitors and creatures of Kovalov. We don't just have to delete it from the members of the tax committee. We have to remove him from the Ukrainian National Deputies, and that will happen. We have to erase it from the history of Ukraine that such a monster was in this room at all. A traitor must be punished for treason in such a way that no one else in life. Even such a thought did not come to mind that one could betray one’s own state, which could betray one’s electorate. Guys, look what happened in Herson. Herson was occupied by betrayal, by the betrayal of certain Ukrainian security officials, by the betrayal of certain representatives of local self-government, and even by the betrayal, as we see today, of the Ukrainian national deputies and this Kovalova. We realize there's a whole nest of these snakes. They seduced him, and they betrayed this city. But I want to address the Hersonians. Hersons, Herson is Ukraine, Melitopol is Ukraine, Berdjansk is Ukraine. And all these traitors, all these Kovalovs, Saldos, Stremouss, Balitskys and others -- they're going to be in the square, but they're not going to come out, they're going to hang. They still need the greatest success in their lives to get to the Ukrainian prison and spend the rest of their lives there. Sleep with the light on, go look around, we'll get to each of you, we'll take each and every one of you by the throat, we'll destroy each and every one of you for that betrayal when you betray your flag, your state, your people! Glory be to Herson! Herson is Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u6	Heroic glory! Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please identify yourself and move on to other matters of the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u8	Thank you. Voice, please. Do we have a voice? Okay, Vasilevska-Smagluk, please, then Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the moment has come for the cleansing of both the Supreme Council committees and the Supreme Council in general, of the advisors and those who have betrayed our Fatherland. As for Mr. Alexi Kovalov, we all testified on the committee about his likely treason and cooperation with the invaders. This testimony, I hope, will form the basis of criminal conduct and further condemnation, and the elimination of Kovalov. But I don't think we should limit ourselves to excluding him just from the committee -- we need to deprive him of his mandate. In addition, I am very interested in where Taras Kozak, such a nardep, also exists, has long been absent from the Supreme Council Hall, not taking part in any vote not only on the Supreme Council but also on the Committee. With regard to Medvedchuk, there is also the question that he should be expelled from all the bodies of the representative Supreme Council and deprived of his mandate. So let the Kovalovs not limit themselves, let us act radically. Folks, Ukrainians are constantly asking what the Supreme Council deputies are doing, who are betraying the Fatherland, in the Supreme Council Hall at all, what they are doing, having a mandate, why we are not depriving them of their rights and participation in the representative bodies of the Supreme Council. Therefore, Kovalov is only the beginning. Let's go on: Taras Kozak, Medvedchuk, all others who betray the Fatherland have no room in the Supreme Council Hall and in Ukraine at all. Thank you. Only in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u10	Rudik Kira Alexandrovna, faction of the Voice political party. Samantha Bobrowski. Samantha, one minute. Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite the national deputies into the hall, because after this speech we will make a decision. So I'd like to ask the people's deputies: first to get to the hall, second to get to their seats, so that we can see the number of votes in the hall. Please, Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u11	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, I spoke on this subject yesterday, and today I want to repeat myself, but with more names. And I want to emphasize, we talk so much about Parliamentarianism and the institution of the Supreme Council, we appeal often, that we work, we don't fear, we come and so forth. Again, we call the whole world to sanctions, talk and appeal to the Security Service and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but we don't appeal to ourselves. It seems to me that it would be very appropriate to contact the Security Service and the Attorney General’s Office to examine all of us here, along with assistants on the civil and state principles that work, with links to article 112 of the Criminal Code. That would be fair. But first of all, I wanted to emphasize not only Kovalova, which we are bringing out today only from the committee, but also without any politics to say that those political parties that are bringing into the Supreme Council of factions, political groups, they are responsible. And it's a matter of time before this person is deprived of his mandate. I will remind you of three reasons, not just the court's verdict, but there are other ways of disposing of these people as quickly as possible and as concisely as possible. And I would like to stress separately not only on Koval, on Medvedchuk and Kozak, but on Oleg Volosin, who is not in the territory of Ukraine; on Ponomarov, who is not in the territory of Ukraine, or perhaps he is missing, although hopefully they will not pay the family compensation; on Eugene Shevchenk and, of course, on Andrew Derkac. This name is not often heard in the Hall of the Supreme Council and the mention of that name. But what I want to remind you is that on June 24, the Security Service discovered the intelligence network of the General Intelligence Agency of the Russian Federation, where the Ripper directly followed instructions on the creation of different groups and elements for undermining statehood, including entering the Russian military government district and the Russian Federation special operations force. Please take these seven names into account, under the transcript, and conduct investigations, as well as suspicions, and disqualify mandates in different ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u13	Thank you, Mr. Head. I didn't want to speak, but the previous speaker, you know, so the whole Parliament was smeared by the march. If she thinks the S.H.I.E.L.D. should check it out, she should check it out. I see no reason to test me or my colleagues in the Fatherland faction because they are true patriots who, including with guns in their hands, are protecting their Fatherland today. Therefore, of course, there is political responsibility for traitors, and it is necessary to bear this political responsibility, but where these traitors are. We don't have to say that the whole Parliament is the same. We don't have to say that the whole parliament is a traitor. We don't need to talk about the whole Parliament being tested. I would like to reiterate that if the previous speaker believes that either she or her assistants are involved in something, he should check her out. And for those who have actually been exposed by the U.S.S.S.A., of course, there is a need to report suspicions, bring cases to court, and pass judgements, and as a result of these judgments, to deprive the deputies of their mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, we are about to move on to making a decision. The only thing before we go to decision-making is once again, I remind you, we agreed with you that all of the information about the meetings is to be formulated and published 45 minutes after the meeting. So I'm talking to everyone who didn't hold back, hold back and clean up everything you've done right away. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Ninth Call (draft number 7535). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:49:57]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Question 7523. This is a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. So I'm going to propose first to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:50:49]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed to discuss it in two or two. So let's vote on the procedure. I'm going to consider this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:51:17]] For 225 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. And then we go to the vote. Please, Laba Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Ladies and gentlemen, please don't leave! What makes you so tired that you leave the hall?Oh, my God! In the end! Is it hard to sit here and listen to what your colleagues say?Oh, my God! You're out of anger! Sit in the hall for your jobs, please! Lab, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u15	The bill envisions an increase of nearly 81 billion dollars in government budget expenditure: social support for the population -- 73.8 billion dollars, including the provision of assistance to internally displaced persons -- 34 billion dollars; transfers of the pension fund -- 32 billion dollars, payments of some aid and settlement grants -- 5.8 billion dollars; payment of benefits and housing subsidies -- 3.3 billion dollars; provision of the operation of the Enterprise Development Fund -- 4 billion dollars; restoration of critical infrastructure in cities most affected by Russian aggression, in the framework of a $1.7 billion project with the IMF; support of farmers' farms -- 1.5 billion dollars, to cover the reported additional expenditure from Russia's aggression. The bill also proposes to address the issue of State guarantees for investment in the operation and development of rail transport. Colleagues, please support the bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u16	Thank you. I would like to invite the National Deputy of Ukraine Klimpush-Cincadze Ivan Orestovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". That's what I understand, Eugene Nina Petrovna, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u18	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, really, we all have to get into work now, because it's a very important bill. The increase in expenditure is almost 81 billion, and the provision is actually only one and a half billion, the rest of the budget deficits are increased, the costs are written in different articles, by the way, by the way, by the way, the changes in the formation of the reserve fund have been made: they have been reduced, they have been increased. That is, there is still no understanding how much money is needed for each article. That may be understandable, but can we today consider articles that are not related to defence? Please, let's get out of here! When the Ministry of Finance first showed funded security expenses yesterday, it turns out that we only finance the military’s money. What about the rest of it? It's on the shoulders of, it turns out, the benefactors and the volunteers who help the army day and night. That's why I'd like to ask you. There is no way to get external loans, there is no way. We have a terrible budget deficit. What are you pushing for, printing money? What other steps can you take? We haven't discussed how to settle such a terrible budget deficit yesterday or today. I ask that we abstain from voting on this bill. Invite Minfin to a closed session, and have Minfin explain how much money is being spent now to secure our Ukrainian Armed Forces. Why do we lack more funding than money? Why do we accept articles that we cannot exactly provide for money? Don't do populism! The country is in danger, we all have to answer, and here you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u20	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Koltunović Aleksandr Sergiyovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I'd like to point out that the standards that are included in the draft law on the increase in the expenditure portion of the budget, we support them, because this is about the payment of benefits and housing subsidies: an increase of 3 billion. What's important is giving monthly address aid to internally displaced persons, here's the figure plus 32 billion dollars. Also, the increase in government budget subsidies to local budgets for the restoration of critical infrastructure facilities, plus 1.6 billion dollars. These are important norms, we will certainly support this. But the previous colleague said: 823.5 billion dollars is a government deficit, and it's growing significantly. If we're comparing income-exposures, we have 1.3 billion dollars, sorry, 1.3 trillion dollars of income is 2.1 trillion dollars of expenditure. That's where this deficit comes from. It's about the show. The issue is 225 billion dollars in four months alone. So we have a full-scale printing machine, which is unacceptable. It's about debt policy. Similarly, we see $101 billion already in government debt and it's also steadily growing. Without a systemic new economic paradigm that will be implemented in Ukraine, we will continue to increase both deficits and the volume of borrowing. So from this point of view, if we support the changes to the budget now, in any case you have to put in an appropriate real resource economic programme to actually implement it, specific bills, because the lack of revenue from the state budget is going to increase the volume of borrowing and accordingly, including emissions and so on. So from this point of view, it's a dead end, and it's not viable. I repeat, we will support, but we need a real economic programme under the budget of 2022 and under the next budget of 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u22	Thank you. The word is given to Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of "The Voice". Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. After that, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to take their seats. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, we will not vote in favour of this bill. And surprisingly, what is offered is probably very popular, but very wrong. I'll explain. The bill raises the cost of 82 billion dollars again. This is our fifth vote to increase expenses. I'll give you a few figures, and then you can decide how to vote for yourself. Our spending in peacetime per month was 125 billion. In May, the figure was only 252 billion in May, and in June it was 231. We made 45 billion in June on tax and 12 billion on customs. That's 57 billion. So once again, we're spending 231 billion -- we made 57. If you think that the donor money, the international partners of international institutions, is coming to us by river, no. Nazbank printed 225 billion, and he'll print it. And each of us will pay for that when inflation goes down, which is now 21 percent and rising. And devaluation, which is probably going to be. So, dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna Jujanina correctly said that we cannot make such decisions anymore. It's cool to vote 70 billion to send to Minsoc. But we don't have that money and we won't. So I suggest we postpone this bill, really do a closed session with Minfin, and figure out how much money we have and how much more money we're going to need, because it's going to take a long time. Then, after agreeing with your partners, make such important decisions. And while increasing deficits, it's just populism. You can vote for it or you can't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u24	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, I strongly disagree with the thesis that during the war it is necessary to leave all the people -- the people who lost their homes, the people who lost their jobs, who today have no opportunity to provide for themselves or their families. I do not agree with the fact that these people need to be abandoned and only deal with one question. Yes, of course, the army in the first place, no one's arguing with that. Yeah, funding the Armed Forces is a top priority, and nobody's arguing about it either. But to say that in this difficult time, you just have to throw people away and not give them any support, I think it's totally politically wrong, it's politically impolite and it's politically unbalanced. So actually this 70 billion budget is social, it's social pay, let's be honest about it. And these are the payouts that can help Ukrainians survive these difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats, prepare for the vote. We're voting changes to the state budget, I'll remind you again. Please respond with all responsibility. Dear colleagues, it has been agreed that a decision will be taken on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights. That's exactly what I'm going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 (registration number 7523). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:07]] For 244 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Please don't break up, dear fellows. We continue to vote, we have an agreement, not to discuss the next question. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (7525). They are related to the preceding one. I therefore propose to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals, the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (registration number 7525). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:52]] For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill was agreed without discussion. This is Bill 7436-d. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to regulate the exchange of prisoners of war. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. [[11:04:48]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to regulate the exchange of prisoners of war (registration number 7436-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:26]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, since we did not agree to the Conciliation Council as a whole, we cut the line. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of draft Ukrainian Law 7436-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:06:00]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, next. We have Bills 7441 and two alternatives. We agreed that we would only do the authors' speeches and vote. But first, I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:06:36]] For-286 Decision taken. Please, we will have three performances then: Reasonables, Gethmans, and Black. And then we vote. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please, and then. Dear colleagues, this is six minutes. Please don't go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I think all of you have been in cities that have suffered greatly from the Russian invasion. And in the suburbs of Kiev, and Kharkiv, the Chernigs, other territories of our state. And everyone remembers that at the beginning of March, we passed a law that defers the payment of loans, the payment of pennies, and interest. But that doesn't solve the question, because all these months go by. This leads to catastrophic consequences after the state of war is lifted and people will be forced to pay off these loans. This law was initiated by the merger of “Smart Politics. ” My colleagues and I raised this question and registered a bill. Then came the alternative. Unfortunately, they don't meet the challenges we faced when we registered this law because they have a series of negative moments. The first is that there's a more complicated procedure that doesn't allow us to solve matters quickly for our citizens. We need to collect stacks of papers, provide help, and so forth. This is not possible today, both from organizational issues and from people’s interests. The second question. The alternative bill contains discriminatory rules because it reduces the area of real estate that can be covered by this law to 140 square meters and reduces the number of cars that can fall, that is, not more than 2.5 thousand cubic centimeters. So I'm addressing you, let's support the basic bill, it solves the issue faster, more qualitatively than the alternative. There shouldn't be politics here that the committee doesn't like it, but it should accept what people really need today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u28	Please, Danilo Alexanderovich the Getmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, from the first days of the war, we have faced this problem that people have lost their homes, people have lost their only place of residence, and some of these people have to pay for loans, loans for nonexistent housing, and that housing can be the only place where people live. We can have a lot to discuss with you, but it's clear that in this case a person shouldn't pay off the loan. And this should not be done at the expense of the bank. Therefore, the bill on the write-off of loans for the sole residence of citizens has been drafted since the first months of the war at the hands of the Prime Minister and the President. How is the alternative bill different from the main one? It's different because it has a procedure. So these are the effective standards that really allow a person to realize his or her right. It is distinguished by the fact that loans that are cheated (this is for a single dwelling) and loans that are frozen if a person has multiple apartments. It is distinguished by the fact that it covers not only bank housing but also housing that is purchased from the builders and the schedule, or on the same terms. A compensation mechanism is envisaged for creditors of the corresponding amounts at the expense of the State budget. And that's very important because we can't solve the problems of some people who are affected by other people's problems. The bill is fully supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, is fully supported by the National Bank, which has examined all the risks associated with its adoption and implementation, and has given its consent. So please support the alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u30	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. If he wants, Victor Ivanovich Black. Please, Victor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, two minutes -- and then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the basic bill and the alternative for their time being so difficult for the country that they have raised a very important question, namely: the problems of the borrowers who have purchased transportation or the real estate in the credit, and such property has been destroyed by fighting or left in the occupied territory. However, when dealing with vulnerable categories of military - affected lenders, attention should also be paid to the heirs of the fallen heroes who will inherit their loans, collectors, and other related unpleasantness. The families of the dead gave the nation the most expensive and, in turn, the State must provide mutual maximum support. That is why the main difference between the bill and the basic and alternative bill is the proposal to exempt from taxation the inheritance of the heirs of the military, the Nazis, members of the military, and others who have died, protecting the state from Russian aggression or the disease associated with military service. In view of the sensitivity of this issue, I ask you to support this initiative aimed at providing additional support from the State to the heirs of soldiers who fall under sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u32	Thank you. It's a unique case: the "Council" system changed a person's faction in two minutes. That's why it's unique. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. Dear friends, I'd like to propose a bill of registration number 7441-1. Please take your seats. In accordance with the Committee's decision, I propose to adopt draft registration number 7441-1 as the basis for the bill is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and some Ukrainian legislation on the support of borrowers whose property has been destroyed or damaged as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:14:26]] For 283 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7441-1. Please vote. [[11:14:53]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the next question, this is the second reading. Please don't disagree, because we agreed that this bill will only take three minutes of Puziyczuk -- and we're going to vote in general. Please, Andrew Puziyczuk, three minutes after this bill. And we're going to vote for him. Please. Bill 5323. 5323: "The Principles of State Regional Policy." Puzichuk 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u33	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, in recent times, we have been constantly observing how the approach to beautiful slogans and in a beautiful embrace offers us absolutely, so to speak, not very good things. What are they talking about? It's decentralization, regional policy, community empowerment and self-reliance, all of these absolutely right things are often heard from representatives of today's government. Yet, what is really going on. Instead of rights and powers, communities are given responsibilities. Instead of additional resources, extra pressure on local budgets. Instead of increasing income from taxes to local budgets, trying to fully centralize all financial flows. I can give a concrete example of what is happening at this time in the forest sector. Covering up the President's announced forest management program, those officials who are supposed to protect the forests launched an unprecedented campaign of corporateizing the entire forest sector and creating a single enterprise called the Forests of Ukraine. Do you have any idea what that means? All forest resources, the whole wood market will be monopolized. All of this will be in one hand, perhaps the most honest. And the ideologists of this reform say that this is how they fight corruption. I only have one question: do they think Ukrainians are stupid? What is the perverse logic by which monopolization and concentration in one hand of performance and control will lead to overcoming corruption and in general good? Now back to the communities. Did anyone have any interest in how many communities are going to lose who are now coming to the local budgets from the forest sector after such an "optimisation" (in paws)? Here is a specific example of what is being declared and what is actually being done at this time. What should we do? Maybe it's worth giving the forest to the community in places? This will be the real support of the communities. It's going to be creating jobs. It's going to be economic development, processing, cost-added and forest conservation. But unfortunately, once again, during Russia's military aggression, forests are being destroyed. And instead of the claimed one billion, Ukraine is transformed into a steppe. This is evidenced by the large number of criminal cases that have been committed. Let me give you just one example. Winnickin was illegally removed from a forest company for 32.5 million dollars. When we talk about an empty budget, we're talking about breaking up the budget. And this "Fatherland" bill won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I'm asking all national deputies to take their seats. I propose to the committee to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles of State Regional Policy (Registration No. 5323). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:32]] For 241 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Show the factions, please. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill. Please don’t disagree, we immediately agreed to vote without discussion, that is, without making any amendments. 7426 is a draft law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine to increase the flexibility of local budgets and increase the operationality of decision-making. Dear colleagues, I immediately propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code on Strengthening the Flexibility of Local Budgets and Enhancing the Operationality of Decision-making (Registration No. 7426). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:20:46]] For 268. The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the next bill, is also a second reading. We agreed on five minutes instead of all our amendments, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, and after that we immediately vote. Five minutes, and we vote. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. It's a bill. Excuse me, 4265 is the draft Law on the National Registration of Human Genome Information. Genomics Information, Honorable Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u35	Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, Bill is extremely important. He was restored, if you remember, to his first reading again. It refers to the registration and compilation of genomic information about individuals. This topic is now extremely relevant, at a time when a large number of people need to be installed. We returned our first rereading in connection with the fact that there were a number of serious comments. The comments were that the holder of all this information was the only one to be foreseen, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It refers exactly to the competence to investigate and establish individuals, or corpses, that have been identified. Because of the first, the main, observation of European experience that the holder of genome information is the Ministry of Justice. The next point about this bill was that it was necessary for the vital aspects and the protection of databases, the ones that would be stored in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. There were observations about the scientific and technical escort. We believe that such an important thing must be protected by the state in order for citizens' databases to be properly preserved. The following observation was based on this bill, which referred to the establishment of "in biological material removed from the scene of criminal offences committed in the circumstances of invisibility or obtained in the course of pre-trial investigation and not identified." So these things had to be worked out too. "Unrecognised corpses of humans, their remains and parts of the human body, whose findings have been brought to the sole register of pre-trial investigations and investigations have already begun." I repeat that the main danger is that the IMF is the holder and, accordingly, the controller of this database, that it will give other authorities access, and it will issue expert conclusions if necessary. That is, a lawyer is forced to address the state structure that investigates the crime in question if necessary. Unfortunately, the bill does not provide for effective control of the DNA collection and use system, since such powers are given to the Ombudsman, or to the Ombudsman, who is not empowered by instruments to influence the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Unfortunately, until the second reading, these dangers remain, but, honourable colleagues, given the situation, I repeat once again what is in the state today, with the burden of the expert and criminalist units of the IMF system, we believe that this bill is much better than the absence of any order to save the DNA of our citizens. We know that we need to run databases that are already starting to build law enforcement systems, the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Armed Forces and their units today. Therefore, given the circumstances, the "Paternity" team will vote in favour of this bill and ask everyone in the session room to vote in order to allow for the actual establishment of bodies that are now considered either missing or not established. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u36	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we are moving on to the decision of a very important bill. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose the adoption of a draft Law on the National Registration of Human Genome Information (Registration No. 4265) on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:27:08]] For 256 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! The next Bill 6485 is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to create conditions for the introduction of complex thermomodernization of buildings. We also agreed that five minutes instead of our amendments, Kucherenko has, and we vote. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich is 5 minutes old. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I'm the only one, Mr. Chairman, I ask you very much to ask our colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] To ask our colleagues, the high-ranking factions that we have today are very Euro-integrating to take their seats so that Mr. Arahami will finally listen, because he is the head of the most powerful faction we have. Because it's a question, and it's my work, and it's very, very important. Mr. David, Mr. David!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u38	Alexi Yuriovich, I'd like you to give me a bell.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u39	Mr. Head, I'm helping you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u40	Thank you, I have this thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u41	All our deputies, Mr. Head, all our deputies are now going to European parliaments, making selfies wonderful. They're great, they're talking about European integration. I want to ask you, have you seen in any European Parliament that, when a deputy speaks, there is such a mess? Guys, start with yourself, because right now you're saying, we need to get the whole nation to Euro-integration. Let's get started, ladies and gentlemen! And now, essentially. I'll explain the relevance of this bill. Please understand that the housing fund accounts for 40 percent of Ukraine’s major funds. Mr. David, the Motovilite, listen! I understand it's not the President's Office. Listen, please! 40 percent of the major funds of Ukraine, and there are simple people living there: Petrenko, Kucherenko, Arahamaya. So it happened that people here live in investment houses, they bought money for an honest living, of course, in new homes, and there's still no problem, you know? Although the builder paired them under some brand, some class, and they are now facing these problems: boilers, windows, elevators. But see what the big problem is. The vast majority of our citizens live in old houses: cartilages, bars, the '60s and '70s. And that's where we have to make huge investments. And we don't make any investments with you, you know? We're adopting smart laws, we're talking about Class A, Class B, but remember, without a state-powered program, without the state-owned huge money that we needed, I'm sorry, not just for Big Building, but for big energy conservation, we're not going to solve this problem, because people are sitting there, but European. Unfortunately, they have very low incomes, and European standards say that an average of 100 to 150 euros per square meter should be spent on warming. Figure out what kind of money it is. Ask your voters whether they are, whether they are, whether they are money, or not. Mrs. Schuljak may finally listen to why her laws do not begin. Because these people, they're not going to pull this energy-generating thing themselves, they need money to help them. The money needs to be allocated, they have to do a very, very powerful job, as was done in Europe, in order to allocate government money, the money of local budgets, people's money to get involved -- and start a practical state energy technology program at last. By the way, it is our right to Mrs. Timoshenko and our colleagues in the Energy Efficiency Act that requires such a program of state energy modernisation. Mr. Lozinski can confirm. Sadly, you have failed to comply with this law. And unfortunately, we didn't develop this program. We'll keep an eye on it. That's why the "Paternity" faction supports this bill in principle. But once again, without allocating large sums of money, without a government program, it's going to be a ruckus, unfortunately. Listen to me. And this bill we support, like any other of your clever ideas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u42	Alexei Yuriovich, thank you. But immediately after you speak, three national MPs are entitled to a repulsion if they want to use it. I see that Senator Larsche brought this audience into the hall well, added a little insurrection. David Georgievich, Andriy Viktorovich, Olena Alexiyevna, if you will. If not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go to the vote. Helen Aleksyevna Schulak, please. One minute, right on the line. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u43	I do have a great request to the honourable Mr. Alexia Kucherenka not to be so populism about people, but to vote for the European integration laws that are so close to our country today to a modern, modern European country. That's why our faction supports a bill initiated by the government that deals with new approaches to energy efficiency and Ukraine's path to energy independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u44	It is wonderful how this law brought the entire hall together. Let's take a look at the vote. There's no replica on the line, Alexy Yuriovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. It's nice when we enrich each other. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the creation of conditions for the introduction of complex thermo-modernization of buildings (registration number 6485). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. Don't distract the Network, the Network has to vote. Please vote. [[11:34:51]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next bill 5339. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the control of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere. Here's the situation: 3 minutes – Evtushka, 3 minutes – Puziyczuk, Alexy Honcharenko is finally making two adjustments for confirmation. And then we vote. So, please, three minutes, Eutusek, three minutes, Puziczuk. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u45	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. In view of the fact that our "Paternity" faction has just supported its voices and the speakers in the speech also said that there is a rational grain in those legal acts. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, I'm sorry! Excuse me. Given that my colleagues have already said that there is a rational grain, our "Fatherland" faction gives votes, in this case, to fellow honourable colleagues, we believe that no improvement in the mechanisms for regulating discards in the law is prescribed in the bill. Moreover, there is no legal principle. I'll remind you that you and I, as well as the central authorities, the Cabinet of Ministers, the local self-government officials, must act within and in a manner defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. This legal act does not provide for certain authorities to be empowered to do so. So we think it's totally unacceptable. Moreover, there is no civil society control whatsoever. We do not see in the provisions of the law the responsibility for failing to comply with these provisions of the law. And here comes a number of other questions. I think each and every one of you, especially the National Majority Deputies, have encountered cases where Ukrainian citizens in one or the other communities have absolutely no support for the placement of any business by a host entity that carries out certain harmful discards. And the absence of public discussion after a statement of intent suggests that such permits will be completely uncontrollable, especially if such enterprises are located within a city where housing is located, where people live, or other facilities, such as water towers and anything else, which may risk pollution even drinking water. So, your honor, the Fatherland faction is not going to support it. We believe that for our country, given what is happening with the granting of permits, a more stringent law is needed to enable the authorities of local self-government and civil society to control the issue of these permits, as well as the supply, and to report after these companies have been granted these permits, in order to control the emissions. The Fatherland faction will hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u46	Please, 3 minutes, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, industrial discard control is important and necessary, but we need to understand whether we are ready for such innovations by Ukrainian companies. Dear colleagues, listen, for example, to the time frame for reducing emissions of pollutants: before the first reading was 10 years old, before the second reading was seven years old. Question: "Why did they change these figures?" I really want to hear an answer from a committee representative. Next. Is it possible today, during the war in Ukraine, to introduce these standards within seven years? Is there such a resource in businesses? What are you up to? On the one hand, you declare economic support, you declare enterprise development; on the other hand, such bills will lead to a complete stop to Ukrainian enterprises, and it will increase the pressure on our Ukrainian industry. Well, what are you doing objectively? Read this bill, and how can it be voted? If you're trying to stop the Ukrainian industry, you want to achieve that effect, so talk about it openly. This, indeed, bill will increase the pressure of controlling authorities on industry. Colleagues, we're being approached by entrepreneurs, business associations who are asking for no support for this bill. These are the businessmen who today have not stopped the work that fills the Ukrainian budget. I have a big request: let's listen to them and send this bill to read again. Look, you're saying liberarian principles that predict tax cuts, deregulation, individual freedom, and in fact you're going towards maximizing government regulation and coercion. And against the backdrop of the concentration of power, you can't do that. As far as tax policy is concerned, that's understandable. Now, look, this bill will start you taxing air, clean air. You've taken on the destruction of industrial enterprises under very beautiful, right slogans. Whose interests do you represent in this Parliament, who do you lobby here? You stand up for the Ukrainian economy, for the interests of Ukrainian entrepreneurs? If so, let us send this bill back to read again. And I have a question for the reporter. Explain why, from the age of 10, the first reading reduced to 7 years during the war in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u49	This decision was taken unanimously by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, I'm going to ask you to take your seats right now, because the national MP, Honcharenko, wants to make one, 46 amendments for confirmation. Right, Alexyyyovich? Please take your seats. We're about to get a confirmation amendment. In the meantime, a minute to explain Alexi Alexiyovich, and then the committee is the answer. And then we vote for the amendment and for the law as a whole. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, you just don't have to vote for the amendment. That's what you said in general, I understand. Because Amendment 46 is very wrong. It predicts that if an additional small source of discards occurs, the industrial enterprise needs to regain all permits. Guys, this is ridiculous! That's ridiculous. What is a small source of discards? A box of sand fires, a pie, a paint post. Whatever. Guys, we need to raise the industry. We need those who continue to work in war conditions today to bow to their feet, to support them, not to think that they have to go on a cycle of bureaucratic for six months because they want to add, there, I don't know, a paint job to themselves on an industrial site. Friends, please don't vote for this amendment now. Vote with a red or yellow button.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee is short for 46.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u53	The committee's position is to confirm this amendment. A new source of discards requires a new permit. This is correct, and this is indeed in line with the requirements of the EU. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your place. 46 amendments, it was counted by the committee. At the same time, Alexiyyovich Hotcharenko insists on putting it on the stand. That's 46 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:44:08]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the control of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:44:56]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, and the final bill for today. He'll be quick, please don't break up. We're going to have a few more votes: this is the bill, and then Alexander Sergiyovich is going to make the signing proposal. Thus, 7255 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to clarify the powers of civil protection subjects and to implement international humanitarian law in the area of civil protection. According to this bill, we agreed that two amendments to "The Fatherland" would be made for confirmation. Mikhail Mikhailovich? Vlasenko? Mikhail Mikhailovich. Oh, two minutes. Two minutes: Mikhail Mikhailovich and two confirmation checks. First, call the amendment numbers. And then we vote for the law as a whole. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u55	Thank you. Two amendments: 125th and 131th for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Sadly, life and time required the preparation and approval of the bill. It is really necessary to share the civil protection authority with the subjects. It is the authority of the local authorities. And in principle, we thank the committee for supporting some of our rights, the Motherland team that was introduced. And we think this bill will be more balanced. But if there were a few more things that were taken into account, this law would actually be able to work for the community immediately after approval. The point is that changes are supposed to refer to local self - government authorities in the event of military and other states to evacuate cultural values regardless of the form of ownership. And that's what that says. Including private ones. This suggests that it will give more authority to the local authorities. But the approval of the second reading of what I call rights is balanced by this bill. That's why I'm asking the honourable people's deputies not to support these regulations, and then this bill will really serve the authorities of local self-government and the government authorities that hand over some of the powers to the places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u58	Please take the committee's position on the 125th and 131th amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee is to support the 125th and 131st revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u60	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we must be determined first by amendment, then by law as a whole. Dear colleagues, the 125th Amendment, is taken into account in an editorial manner, at the same time, honorary MP Mikhailo Mikhailovich Zimbaluk puts such consideration on record. So I'm putting 125 of Bondarenko's amendment, which is edited. Please vote. [[11:48:48]] For 238. The amendment remains edited. And 131 amendments to the Bondarenko People's Deputy, she's listed by the committee, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk puts her on the stand. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of 131 amendments. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[11:49:19]] For 236 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the powers of civil protection and the implementation of international humanitarian law in the area of civil protection (registration No. 7255). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:50:05]] For 283 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Welcome, colleague. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u61	I propose that the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should immediately sign the bills adopted today by the Supreme Council as a whole and send them to the President immediately for signature. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please be supportive. [[11:50:39]] For 278 Decision taken. Thank you. I'm reporting on the creation of an interfractional MP for free Cuba. The organization is headed by the Network of Alexander Aleksandrovitch. Success in this difficult matter!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-09-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the consideration of the agenda for the day is complete. We're not closing our plenary session. The time and place of our next meeting will be announced in advance. Dear colleagues, we continue to defend our homeland together. With us is the truth, God is with us! Glory to Ukraine!
