ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-03-m0.u1	Yeah, well, we can get started. We promised we wouldn't be long. Congratulations, distinguished national MPs. As you all remember, we have not closed our plenary session, so today, according to our decree on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a state of emergency and war, as proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, I have called you to continue the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The list of issues for consideration today was previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, and it is given to you. Let us now consider matters of today’s order. There won't be any suggestions, nothing, so I'm announcing, moving on to. We agreed that we only listen to the report on the first question, all the other questions we vote on right away. Do we have a deal? That's why I'm asking the distinguished National Deputies, we're moving on to question 7123, this is the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the European Parliament, the international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies, parliaments and foreign governments on the urgent need to protect the civilian population of Ukraine from armed attacks by Russian invaders (7123). We agreed that it was just a report. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion. Dear colleagues, we have an agreement. Dear colleagues, I won't even go out, I'll just read the report if I may. The second week of fierce, unwarring, full - scale war that the Kremlin regime had waged against Ukraine began. The entire nation stood up for its Fatherland and bravely struggled with a sneaky Russian enemy who, in violation of both international conventions and treaties, as well as human values and humanitarian customs since the first day of this war, had murdered the civilian population of Ukraine in cold blood. Putin’s soldiers fire cold - blooded and bombard the residential quarters of our cities and villages, hospitals, maternity homes, schools, kindergartens, or facilities that have no military significance. As a result, more than 2,000 women, children, people with disabilities, the elderly have already lost their lives, many peaceful people have been injured, and thousands have been affected by a humanitarian disaster without water, food, and medicine. Ukraine’s repeated attempts to agree with Russian criminals to open humanitarian corridors to remove civilians from the war zone have failed. The policies of the Russian Federation, aimed at the physical destruction of Ukrainians, must be stopped immediately by the efforts of the entire democratic world. To this end, the leadership of Parliament and factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has brought to the attention the above-mentioned appeal by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which we ask the international community to take urgent action to protect the civilian population, in particular with regard to the immediate deployment of a free zone in Ukraine, the immediate opening of humanitarian green corridors for the security of women, children and the elderly and the guarantee of their safety in direct cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross and the introduction into the territory of Ukraine of the UN Peace Forces. The measures proposed by the draft regulation will contribute to the consolidation of international legal efforts with a view to putting an immediate end to the flagrant violation of international humanitarian law and require investigation as international war crimes. The Supreme Council of Ukraine welcomes the adoption of the UN General Assembly Resolution "Aggression against Ukraine", which was adopted on 2 March by more than two thirds of the votes of UN member States, and on behalf of the Ukrainian people, expresses its deep gratitude to the UN member states that supported this resolution and supported Ukraine. So I propose that the Supreme Council accept as a whole the above - mentioned determination and approve the appeal of the Supreme Council. No questions? Then, fellow Members, I propose to accept as a basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the European Parliament, the international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies, parliaments and foreign governments on the urgent need to ensure the protection of the civilian population of Ukraine from armed attacks by Russian invaders (registration No. 7123). Take it as a basis and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights. Dear colleagues, will there be any objections? People's deputies, please vote. For 279 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, I'm just going to read the number, the name and the decision I'm going to make. Do we have a deal? Dear colleagues, please accept as a whole the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on General Mobilization (registration number 7113). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I am voting on a bill approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations (registration number 7115). I'm willing to take the proposal as a basis and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights. Ready to vote? Bill 7115. Please vote. For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. People come along, it's nice. Next, my friends, I put to the vote Bill 5143 is a draft Act amending certain legislative acts (to ensure the responsibility of persons who have been engaged in cooperative activities). I'll take it. 5143. I propose to take this as a basis and, in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 5143. People's deputies, please vote. This is, yes, I'm sorry, this is a joint compromise decision, taking into account the proposals of all factions. Please vote. For 277 Decision taken. The related Bill 5144 is also a joint compromise with the proposals of all factions. I am drafting Bill 5144 of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (to establish criminal responsibility for collaborative activity). There is a proposal to be accepted as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill 5144. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 284 Decision taken. The following Bill 5101 is a draft Act amending certain legislative acts (for the prohibition of the production and dissemination of information products aimed at promoting the actions of the aggressor State). I'd like to make a proposal to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, in general, 5101. Dear colleagues, please vote. For 285 Decision taken. The next bill, 5102, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation (to increase criminal responsibility for the production and distribution of prohibited information products). I propose to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill 5102. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 7118. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine to further regulate law enforcement under difficult conditions of war. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7118. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 7117. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the Change of Courts. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7117. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Bill 7116. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Crimes against the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine under the conditions of the regime of martial law. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7116. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 285 Decision taken. Next bill, 7120. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Act. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7120. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 280 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7121. This is a draft of the Law on Protection of the Interests of Subjects of Reporting and Other Instruments during Wartime or Wartime. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt, as a whole, the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7121. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7122. This is a draft law on the basic principles of forced removal in Ukraine of property items of the Russian Federation and its residents. [[Applause]] There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, bill number 7122. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7124. This is a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the liability for looting. [[Applause]] I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments (project registration number 7124). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and the final bill for today, but not the final vote, is 7125. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of taxation and reporting during the war period. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 7125. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Now, one second. Dear colleagues, I give the word to Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-03-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, there are two moments. The first moment is important to one of the factions. According to part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report expulsions from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" by Kiwa Illy Volodymirovic. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we need to vote on the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the laws adopted today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to immediately send them to the President of Ukraine for signature. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. For 285 Decision taken. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-03-03-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear national deputies, the questions that were planned for consideration and decision-making at our meeting today, have been considered. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I'll let you know more about the time and place of our plenary work. We're not closing. I'll let you know when. Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, there are requests, the photos you've made now, to be taught no sooner than three hours later. Thank you. The honourable heads of the committees whose laws have been passed, a moment, let's leave you, too, to sign these laws so that I can sign them today. Thank you.
