ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. And I remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold down the electronic button and press the "Z" button and keep it up until the end of the registration. Are you ready to register, Your Honor? Please register. [[10:00:43]] There are 168 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today we celebrate 30 years of approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the State Flag of Ukraine, a national flag consisting of two stripes: upper blue, lower yellow. The blue-yellow flag represents the love of the Ukrainian people for their homeland and the longing for peace, work and beauty for centuries. The flag of the State is a symbol of freedom, independence and government, of honor and unity. Glory be to Ukraine, fellows of honor! Dear colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies, Alexander Vasilovich Haydut, "Serve of the People", and John Sergiyovich Yunakov, "Serve of the People." Let us welcome them, wish them good health, and continue to work in victory for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, before we move on to today's issues, there's a statement from two factions, the OPCW and the ECU, about a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexandrovich Razumkov. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues! I wouldn't be so happy if I were you, and it's not in principle who applied for a break with a replacement for a performance. When they come to you with searches, you'll be laughing. It's not funny, it's not right, it's a return to the principles of dictatorship, the usurpation of power, selective justice. And the principle of "law one for all," with which we went to the Council, was only a sound for all of us in this room. But wait, the time will come back, and then when they come to you, when they're sorry, they're going to chase you down. Let's look at your reaction. I'm addressing the Chief of the Supreme Council, I'm calling on the law enforcement committee to take personal control. I would like to invite you to the Suhachev meeting. He is so grateful that before the new year, he received a gift and was assigned to the head of the D.B.R., or what was it? It's totally on the right. It's totally on the ear. They do not go to many of the national deputies involved in other criminal matters, either the D.B.R. or the N.A.U.U. And they come here because it's "Smart Policy" because they're not subordinate to the Office because they don't listen to the President directly? That's how it's gonna be. You will either live by the principle of lawlessness, or you will live by the principle of "one law for all." Sooner or later. In the 13th year, everyone thought the same thing -- we were here forever, and then time changed, and then we had to answer, and someone else was leaving the country. These are your colleagues. If a person is guilty, he will be punished. And if you've decided to turn intelligence into an institution that's going to push people's deputies and the Ukrainian Parliament into a parliamentary-presidential republic, it's going to hit you. Political persecution, it all comes to this today. The pressures of freedom of speech, the oppression of principles, the oppression of what we all went through in the 19th year. On one occasion, you all changed your priorities very much. I'm not going to talk right now about how much and what they've changed into. But you'll be quiet - then you'll end up very badly, believe me. By another national MP, third parties try to establish criminal conduct. I'm not saying that there are other institutions driving after all. When will Suhachev's report be three weeks from now? Then we'll listen to the Head of the D.B.R. What he did for his job and where they run the state. Thank you. Make yourself at home, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u3	Honourable National MPs, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Greetings, dear fellows. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, "the hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday at 10 a.m. Yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to change the order of our work today and increase the duration of the "hour of questions to the government" to 2 hours. The closing of the sixth session will take place at 12:30. On Monday, the Conciliation Council adopted a proposal to listen to the "hours of questions to the Government" of the Ukrainian Defence Minister's information on the situation at the Ukrainian-Russian border, the Minister of Health for Overcoming the Coronavirus pandemic and the Prime Minister of Ukraine's Energy Security. Dear colleagues, according to our tradition, the next order is proposed for a "hour of questions to the government." First, we will have reports: a report by the Minister of Defence - in 20 minutes, a report by the Minister of Health of Ukraine - in 20 minutes, a report by the Prime Minister - in 20 minutes. Then, traditionally, the rapporteurs' answers to questions from MPs and groups to 21 minutes, the Prime Minister's and government members' replies to questions to national MPs, up to 30 minutes. Up to two hours, you'll be able to listen and ask everything. There's no objection. Therefore, honourable colleagues are invited to the rostrum for a report on the situation at the Ukrainian-Russian border. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u4	Good morning, Mr. Head, distinguished presidency, distinguished prime minister of Ukraine, members of the government, honourable national MPs! First of all, I want to thank the Ukrainian Parliament for the decision adopted yesterday, first of all on the ratification of the loan agreement with Britain, from which the funds will go to the development of the Ukrainian Navy, and for the clarification of the National Resistance Act. The ratification of the treaty will start a practical phase of its implementation, and the Ministry of Defence is actively preparing for it. In particular, the entire week in Odessa was negotiated with the British side, and we agreed on the details of the four contracts associated with this framework agreement. They relate to the construction of two naval bases in Berdjansk and Oczek, the construction of eight modern rocket boats, the acquisition of two trawlers and missiles. The implementation of this agreement will allow the Ukrainian fleet to increase significantly in 2-3 years. Secondly, given the coronavirus pandemic, I'm informing you that more than 96.3 percent of military and personnel are fully vaccinated in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Buster vaccination has already begun. The vaccine's enough, the medical team's got the situation under control. Now, about the main threat, the main topic -- the state of threats from the Russian Federation and our actions. First. I want to emphasize that there are no military phenomena or actions currently observed that would have been markedly different from what happened last spring before Easter. The only difference in the military we're following closely is the situation in Belarus, and I'll talk about it a little bit further. What is fundamentally different? This is the intensity of hybrid measures, primarily informational measures, and the impact of these measures on the macroeconomic situation, I ask you to take this into account. Ukrainian Intelligence, I am personally and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant General Valérie Zalezhny, are in constant contact with our international partners. We have all the information, and at some points, we refine the data of our foreign colleagues. Differences in the concentration numbers of Russian troops that sometimes float in public space, especially in the international media, relate to the distance and treatment of this distance. Someone points out figures for the presence of Russian troops up to 200 kilometers away from the state border of Ukraine and someone to 400 kilometers away. We're using data about the area up to 200 kilometers because they're more accurately reflecting the trend. Russia attacked Ukraine eight years ago. For no one in Ukraine, it is not news that Russia has a large army. We even know they have nuclear weapons, don't we? But we come from the fact that war is already coming and this entire army is an enemy army. As I spoke from this rostrum in December, I noted that in Russia there was a winter teaching period, and armies were moving all over Russia. This information is especially disseminated, and it is also a means of pressure, not only for Ukraine but also for Ukraine. At the beginning of December, we watched the 41st battalion tactical group and other units of the Russian army, which numbered 94,000 people, with the aviation and maritime component, it was about 110,000. Now we're looking at parts that account for about 112,000 people, and with the marine and aviation components, it's about 130,000 people. In April of last year, the fighting component of Russia was 126 thousand. So the quantity then and now is congruent, not a proportional reaction. And I'm also going to say that Russia has pulled 300 tanks more than in the spring, but the number of modern anti-tanks that our military has today is both Stugna and Korsar and Javelin and Enclave to order more than the number of potential targets. I'm sure you've all been following the news. I can't give the exact number of help I get, but I can say that it's more optimistic than what's been happening in the media. We're watching the passage of six large naval ships from the North and Baltic fleets of the Russian Federation that have entered the Mediterranean and can enter the Black Sea. We know the Marine Corps are on board, and even more so is the Air Force Task Force of the United States. To emphasize, our military is calculating all possible scenarios, including the worst. It's their job to be ready. When they give an assessment of the terms of possible escalation by Russia, one of the possible but not mandatory scenarios sounds. In December of this rostrum I told you that at the end of January we expect an increase in threats. So our task is to focus on working with international partners to respond to these challenges, and we have acted and acted. To reduce the risks, a great deal of work was done both inside Ukraine and abroad. The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelensky, was active at the level of the country’s leaders. Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal acted at the level of his visa in other countries' governments. They were doing everything possible and impossible diplomats led by Dmitr Kuleb. The Ministry of Defense has also operated on its territory. A small part of the results of this joint work can be seen today. We're already getting what we've only dreamed of before and will continue. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the United States, Britain, Canada, Sweden, Denmark, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Spain, our Polish and Turkish friends, the leadership of the EU and our Japanese partners, Prime Minister Andrey Plenkovic of Croatia personally for his position, for the concrete actions and for the clear position of everyone else, as well as everyone I have not mentioned yet. We greatly appreciate Germany’s help. [[Applause]] We greatly appreciate Germany’s help in treating our wounded soldiers. In Ukraine, there are many friends in Germany, and we are grateful for this support, but we do not take an official position on arms supply and other decisions that undermine Europe's security and de facto encourage the aggressor. We draw our partners' attention to the fact that our predictions about the Kremlin are happening, and we understand them even better. If Germany does not change its position on the rejection of Russian aggression, the federal government will have to deal not with the problems of ORDLO or the Russian-occupied Crimea, but with the problem of the German Democratic Republic, and that is not an exaggeration. After all, the material basis for the NDR already exists. It's not just "The North Stream 2," it used to be "Opal" gauze, it's also the representatives of the German intebulation on Russian wages, it's also individual vice-directors who torpedo their own country with strange expressions. The Germans know better about other Russian activities. We warned Western partners that the Kremlin's goal is not as much Ukraine as it is to undermine NATO and the EU. We warned that there would be an attack on the Baltic States, and it happened that after that there would be escalation, unless there was an answer and escalation against Poland happened, and it was impossible to imagine a year ago. The restoration of the German Democratic Republic is a logical extension of the Russian requirements already stated. Russia has already officially imposed NATO dismantling requirements in 14 countries, which also seemed impossible. Well, it's very good that the Alliance members gave a clear answer, but we have to be practically part of it so that we don't have to answer when someone starts rebuilding the Berlin Wall. Dear colleagues, I've been very concerned about these issues, because you and the Ukrainian society have to understand the logic of our actions, the risks and the threats that we have, were all these eight years, and we're not minimizing them, and we're preparing. To sum up this block, I'm going to say a few words about Belarus. Along with colleagues, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security Service, we are closely watching the north. Today, no attempt has been made to attack Ukraine by migrants or other similar threats. As for the Russian troops who are coming to Belarus for training. At present, they are more like an occupying contingent than a strike group, and they pose a greater threat to Minsk than to Ukraine. I emphasize that there are no threats to Belarus on the part of Ukraine in principle, this is nonsense. We have a very warm feeling for the Belarusian people, and any force against Belarus is contrary to the interests of Ukraine. I want them to hear it in Minsk too. Similarly, an absolute nonsensus is the accusation that Ukraine is preparing for some arms provocations on Donbassa. We're consistently strengthening our defenses, and that's true, but we're clearly committed and we're looking at the policy-diplomatic settlement scenario as basic. In recent times, we have seen a slight decrease in the number of provocations by the Russian occupying forces in ORDLO. Our soldiers have trained them that provocations are getting reprisals. The next block I want to focus on is what it takes to strengthen our defenses. The first is the active deployment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine's Territorial Defence Force. The National Resistance Foundation Act came into force on January 1st and four weeks ago. The commander of the Territorial Defence Force, Brigadier General Yuri Galushkin, a military officer, was assigned to serve as the first President’s decree this year. This adjusts to the right rhythm. The government has already approved the necessary regulations and work is ongoing at the level of outstanding acts. All necessary units, from command to nearly 150 battalions, have already been created at the district level, are being assembled in a special warehouse in peacetime, and locations are being set up. The expansion will take place in three conditional stages. The first step is to create a command and control core, which consists of 10,000 professional military personnel. By law, it's a state of peace. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that the forces of territorial defense are part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, just like the Air Force or the Force of Special Operations. They are not voluntary national wives or anything like that in local governments. In the border regions of the TRO unit, 70 percent of the time is already occupied by the state of peace, making it possible to carry out the necessary tasks. By the end of February, all regions will have 70 percent or more. The second stage is the state of a special period, which will total about 130,000 people. These are civilian citizens who will be selected and contracted to serve in the TRO reserve. They will be under military command, the state will secure their weapons, and they will conduct training and reconciliation. Work on the deployment of the state of special period is already in progress, and together with the General Staff, we've cut down on the list of documents required for the reserve: application, passport, identification code, military ticket, if you have one, that's all. No more handwritten autobiography will require you. The third component is volunteering to form territorial communities. They can be created in small populated areas only if such an initiative is taken by the territorial defence force and the commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces decides accordingly. They will act, act according to the orders of the respective military leaders of the TRO force. At the moment, the primary need is to equip and maintain the cities of dislocation, since 176 military units are being deployed at the same time. I reported this to the government, and under the leadership of the Prime Minister, together with the Minister of Finance, we are already working on this issue. The resources of local authorities will also need to be involved at the local level. Letters with the appropriate needs for my signature are already being sent to the regions. We are set up to build partnerships with local authorities and self-government, because the idea of TRO is to coordinate the army and the community. I want to thank those colleagues who are already supporting us. In February, regional training is planned for local authorities and self - government to work together: east, north, south, and west. The other one. We have begun the transformation of the Ministry of Defence in the direction I called you during the appointment, and we will continue the reform of the defence sector. In particular, one block is a digital transformation that affects both governance processes and the use of troops on the battlefield. We have already taken a number of steps to bring automatic systems into our army. automated military management systems at all levels, from strategic to tactical. Procedures have been initiated for inventorying the assets of the Ministry of Defense, and we are working very closely with the State Department of Defense to protect the land of defence. A separate block is the use of digital technologies to improve interaction with citizens. We're preparing draft decisions to turn ex-military units into analogs to CNAPs. We're already working on a pilot project of this kind -- CNAP -- we're already working on an example of one of the assembly centers in Kiev. It is our intention that exviants should turn into comfortable recruitment centers, especially for TRO needs. For this purpose, we have already prepared a project, which will connect the assembly centre and the civilian DNAP. At the same time, we are developing a draft Law on Cyber Defense Forces. This is a new trend that will increase Ukraine’s ability. Another overriding area is the provision of military housing. We form a joint position with the Department of Veterans, and we will present it to you soon. In general, we are planning a set of measures to make the service at the U.S.S.A. attractive and competitive, to move from the contractual army to the professional. The third item is about additional resources for defence. To be honest, the Secretary of Defense will certainly not object to any additional funds for the army. On the contrary, there are needs, and they are big, and I keep talking about them at different levels. And I thank the Head of the Supreme Council, the leaders of all factions and groups, all the national MPs who are ready to support the defense. However, I insist that we be systematic, and I urge everyone to take this approach. Many of the problems of the army are caused by chaotic accumulations of decisions and processes that should work as clockwork. I'd like to remind you that since January 1st, the Law on the Defense of Purchasing has been in place. It is based on the Yearly and Triennial Procurement Plans. We're working closely on them with the profile committee. I would like to thank everyone very much without exception to the members of this committee for their cooperation and support. We already have a clear plan for the ministry's work for 2022 in different directions. We move gradually, but consistently. For example, since January 1, money has already been raised for military pilots and medics, there is a solution for snipers. At the last stage, the Special Operations Force's money increase decree. This year, it is planned to approve three basic state-level programs: the U.S.S.S. Development Programme, the arms development programme, and the missile program. This will launch a system-wide re-arming process. It's also very important for defense companies. The quality of the weapon that we need is not on the shelf in the nearby ventriloquistry, it's made for a while, and here we're working with the Minstrategprom on this background. For the first time in our lives, we have the opportunity to harmonize targeted programs and budget planning, to remove from the defense orders things that occur in manual mode. And to make this possible, I call, starting with the budget resolution, for defence spending to be at least 3 percent of GDP in 2023. And I'm going to ask Parliament to vote in favour of the defence budget on a planned basis, not in an aural one. Our actions should be swift, but thoughtful, not fireful. If the situation is balanced and macroeconomic stability is lost, the additional billions of armies will not help. We're going to come up with reasonable questions, we're going to reconcile them with the government and the profile committee, and we're going to be very happy to get the extra money, and we're going to be building a system base for the future, so that when the next defence minister stands on this platform, he's guaranteed 3 percent of GDP in the budget, and this GDP is constantly increasing, increasing the amount of resources in defense. Now our main mission is to keep our cool, keep our cool, because we can assume that some of the decisions and statements made by our partners are dictated by the internal order of the day. The Armed Forces of Ukraine are fully prepared for the enemy's secession. Every day we get stronger. This is what our partners see, this is what our enemy sees, and this reduces the probability of negative scenarios. In the last year, confidence in the army in society has increased to 72 percent. I assure you, the Ukrainian people can be sure of their army. Once again, I thank Parliament for its support, and I want to say that whoever wants to attack and win the attack -- they're going to be defeated, they're going to be invincible. Ukraine and the Ukrainian army are invincible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Thank you. Honorary colleagues are invited to the rostrum to report on the further pandemic of the Coronavirus, Ukraine’s Minister of Health Viktor Kirilovich Ljashko. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a great request. Allow the ministers to get to the rostrum because you've been blocked by a lot. Thank you. Please. Victor Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u6	Good day, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies, dear Ukrainian people! The vaccine, the antivirals of direct action, the less aggressive strains of SARS-COV-2 are clear signals that humanity can overcome the COVID-19 pandemic. The emergence of vaccine and the desire of all countries of the world to reach high levels of vaccination gives us an optimistic hope that 2022 will be the last year for the COVID-19 pandemic. But the pandemic brings new surprises. Since the second half of December 2021 in the world, out of 900,000 cases per day, the tide has reached about 4 million unforeseeable cases a month. Sadly, this wave came to Ukraine two weeks ago. The number of new cases over the last two weeks is doubling every week, and there is also a growing share of the positive results of laboratory research among all those who have been tested. Despite twice the number of infections in the last week, the number of hospitalized patients has increased by just a third. The proportion of people hospitalized among the infected is now twice that of the last Delta-wave. The Ministry of Health estimates that in the coming weeks, Ukraine will come up with peak disease levels at COVID-19. The number of infections is expected to be between 40,000 and 60,000 per day. These figures are twice as high as the peaks of the last wave, and thanks to vaccination, we expect a third less dead than the peak of the last wave. With our level of vaccination and the new readiness of hospitals, the medical system also endures the 34,000 cases that were recorded yesterday. A year ago, however, such a number of cases could have led to a collapse of the medical system. But we have learned to act on prejudice, to predict effectively, to respond in a timely manner, and to strengthen the weaknesses of our system. And in 2022 we entered, without exaggeration, the highest alert. First of all, it's the financial readiness of the institutions. For the first time since the launch, the Health Guarantees Program will start on January 1. By the end of this month, all facilities will have contracts under the Health Guarantees Programme and will receive January payments in time and will be ready to increase peak stress. The new package in the Health Guarantees Program "Preparation to provide medical care in the conditions of the spread of infectious diseases, epidemics and other emergency situations" will allow on a permanent basis the stability of the key institutions of the infectious identity regardless of the epidemic phase. For this direction, the Health Guarantees Program for the 22nd year has almost 2.5 billion dollars. Each facility behind this package will receive over 1 million dollars a month for the very willingness to receive patients and provide them with adequate medical care. An additional 17 billion dollars are provided under the Medical for Hospitals package, which will hospitalize patients during periods of peak stress on the health system. This package takes into account the cost of pay, the necessary medical supplies and medical supplies needed to treat patients from SOVID-19. In pandemic conditions, our doctors are the most valuable resource. We have to do everything we can to provide them with a decent salary. This year, therefore, the basic wage is set and budgeted: for a nurse, 13,000 500 dollars, for a doctor, 20,000 dollars. And this is just the first step that we've taken together to improve the financial motivation of our medical staff. A single financial incentive is to pay for the vaccination of the population. An additional 2.2 billion dollars to pay for the work of brigades and staff who are inoculating, including busters. Since March 1nd, 22nd, reaching full immunization levels with COVID-19 will be one of the quality indicators for doctors who provide primary medical care. Funding through the development of the Medical Guarantees Programme is not the only way to improve the quality of medical care in institutions that provide medical care to patients with COVID-19. Much of the upgrade of the material and technology base and purchases took place and took place centrally. This allows us to take advantage of opportunities for entry into new markets, to fight for innovative drugs, and to reduce the cost of large volumes of purchases. To improve the diagnostic ability of health facilities, 143 computer tomographers and 129 digital tomographers have already been installed and put into service. In addition, another 81 digital x-ray units were purchased in December, and at the expense of the global fund, auctions for 82 x-rays are now ending. In modernized laboratories, there are reagents available to conduct research using a polymerase chain reaction. By the way, this week these laboratories have made 94,000, during the period of 94,000, 996 studies, showing that we have yet another implementation of paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of October 20, 20, "On measures to combat the spread of coronary disease and to protect all systems of the country's vitality from the negative effects of the pandemic and the new biological threats." Since the beginning of this year, we have already put 2 million rapid tests into health care facilities and are waiting for another supply. If there is a need for hospitalization, whose frequency at Omicron is at least a third less than that of Delta, the established network of facilities will be ready to accept the patient for one of the nearly 70,000 oxygen beds already available. And we pay particular attention in this wave to the willingness of children's hospitals to hospitalize patients with COVID-19. Because of the ability of the new strain of Omicron to spread rapidly, there is a corresponding increase in the proportion of the sick among the most active population — young people and children who spend much of their daily lives in large groups or in groups of friends. An additional reason for the spread may also be that, according to scientific research, Omicron is more active in the upper respiratory tracts of man, which is one of the reasons for the more rapid spread of the virus. Since most of the virus concentrates in the nosoglott, it is easier for it to get into the aerosol and droplets that spill out in the breathing or sneezing of the infected person. That's why it's important to wear a mask that covers your nose and mouth. The proportion of children under the age of 18 in the overall disease pattern in 2022 is actually increasing, from the beginning of the year it has doubled as much as the proportion of children in hospital beds. Children’s beds are now occupied by about half of the more than 3,000 600 who are allocated to the hospitalization of COVID patients. However, the length of hospital stay has been reduced, both in comparison with previous waves and in comparison with adult patients. And that's the feedback from our doctors that we're having a daily dialogue with. In addition, children are much less likely to require oxygen support and hospitalization in emergency hospitals. So now we have a medium-term consumption of oxygen -- 121 tons -- at the previous wave, it reached almost 400 tons per day. Under stationary conditions, we continue to move away from temporary measures of oxygen supply and channelled budgetary costs into the construction of centralized oxygen supply systems, because this is a long-term investment in development and the independence of institutions as a whole. 118 oxygen stations have already been purchased for government subsidies and are now being installed in hospitals. In addition, the U.S. Medical Procurement Company purchased 225 autonomous oxygen-type container stations. Thus, once the work is completed in one year, the number of permanent oxygen stations in the country will increase by almost eight times. In July 2021, only 50 oxygen stations functioned in the country, currently with the completion of the installation of all purchased stations, 85. In order to prevent problems with oxygen supply, we have further negotiated with all 23 licensed manufacturers of medical oxygen who directly work with establishments and jointly monitor both the rate of oxygen consumption and the formation of significant reserves in case of an increase in the need for facilities. As a result, 97 percent of the waterbeds in Ukraine are oxygen - supplied, and today more than 44,000 single beds are available. More than two thirds of the oxygen beds are now free and ready to receive patients from COVID-19 if necessary. We have also greatly expanded the possibilities of intensive therapy. The number of resuscitation beds has increased to 5,000 300, which should provide intensive treatment for all patients in distress. Although, according to individual countries, patients with Omicron are three times less likely to enter the emergency wards than did the Delta strain. Overall, compared to the previous year, the number of beds with oxygen has already increased by 30 percent and the number of beds with resuscitations by 20. More than 66,000 vials of remdesiver and more than 7,000 vials of tocilizumab — new drugs that have been bought centrally — have already been placed in hospitals to treat patients in stationary conditions. In order to prevent the deterioration and transition of the disease from an easy degree of severity to an average and severe one, a contract was signed primarily for patients at risk by the Ministry of Health to supply 300,000 courses of mortar – an ambulatory medicine for COVID-19, which was admitted to emergency medical treatment last Wednesday thanks to the simplified procedure for the registration of medicines from COVID-19. A previous contract for the purchase of 300,000 medical treatments has also been signed with Pfizer for outpatient treatment. This drug will be delivered during the 1st quarter and transferred to the region to treat the sick Ukrainians. Ukraine’s path against the pandemic allowed us to become a full part of a progressive European community. We have signed contracts for the supply of vaccines and drugs at the stage of their production, we update treatment protocols and vaccination approaches immediately after they are anchored at the world level, choosing solely evidence and effective solutions. We have become one of the first countries outside the European Union with a digital certificate recognised as fully compatible and with such an EU document, which demonstrates the high level of trust of international partners, and simply makes Ukrainian travel more accessible. The only step we still have to take to make a full level with the leaders in the European region is to continue a full-scale vaccination campaign. This allowed countries to stabilize and start developing a quarantine reduction plan at the beginning of the year, such as France, Britain, Ireland. In Ukraine, COVID-19 has been vaccinated with at least one dose of half the adult population and 47 percent with both doses. A third of a million Ukrainians have already received an additional or booster dose of vaccine. According to mathematical modelling, 18,000 lives have been saved by vaccination in Ukraine -- just as much as our citizens died of coronary disease in the first year of the pandemic. A key priority for the year 2022 is to further increase vaccination coverage, complete primary vaccination course, and proactively seek and vaccinate those who have not yet been vaccinated. The overall vaccination strategy from COVID-19 will be re-evaluation of the booster dose of those who received the basic vaccination course in 2021, as well as the use of three-fold vaccinations, two doses of the base vaccination course and one booster dose for new patients. This year we plan to increase the rate of vaccination, and for that we already have a hundred percent vaccine supply. There won't be any breaks for a day, that's what we guarantee. We use all available resources to protect the population: both the state budget and our cooperation with the COVAX initiative continues. Our task is to keep vaccination rates up to the goals recommended by the World Health Organization and to continue vaccinations and boosters for all. To this end, intensive mobile circuitry schedules have already been developed and the rural population has expanded to access vaccination services. There are opportunities for the eSupport program for 60 plus-age medical devices, and other measures have been put in place, the only task of which is to protect the population and return to life as soon as possible without a pandemic. In addition to increasing vaccination levels in Ukraine, the system of adaptive quarantine, which showed its effectiveness in the previous two waves of 2021, continues to operate. Adaptive quarantine allowed ten regions in the spring and six regions in the autumn of 2021 to pass the disease wave without restrictions on red levels of epidemic safety, while effectively curbing the spread of disease at the country level and with less impact on Ukraine’s economy. Adaptive quarantine has now begun to respond to an increase in disease in Ukraine. And our system of indicators in adaptive quarantine is not based on the rate of detected cases per day, it's based on an analytical model that focuses on the level of load of the health system. So far, this model has taken the region of Ivano-Frankivsk and Ravensk to a red level of epidemic danger. And by no chance, the outbreak started right from the west of Ukraine for these two regions. These are regions with one of the lowest levels of coverage of the full vaccination course, 36 percent and 42 percent respectively. With leaders in the Kyiv region, the Poltava region demonstrates the level of over 70 percent of the vaccinated adult population in the full vaccination course, so the correlation is very clear: the vaccination regions are in the yellow level of epidemic danger and have one of the lowest levels of hospitalization and the employment of waterbeds with oxygen. At the same time, the outsiders of vaccination are actively moving towards the red level of epidemic danger. Zacarpatska, Volinska, Cherniewecka, Lvivska, Vinnicka, and Suma region have the highest risk of rapid transition to red levels of epidemino. So we have a request, let's not wait for this to end, but let's do the vaccination, the more so that the MRNC vaccines present today in the vaccination strategy in Ukraine show 90 percent effectiveness against hospitalization to Omicron. Let us explain the benefits of vaccination to those who still have doubts and reach the level of vaccination, such as in Britain. Now we're looking at the results of their lifting quarantine limits, and if this experience is successful, we're going to apply it in Ukraine after this wave. I'm asking everyone to take another shot! This vaccine isn't for life, this vaccine for life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u7	Thank you, Victor Kirilovich. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the rostrum for a report on Ukraine's energy security. Please, Denise Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u8	Good afternoon, good afternoon Ukrainians, distinguished people's deputies, dear Mr. Head, a distinguished presidency! Before starting my speech, I would like to express my deep sympathy to the families and loved ones of the terrible tragedy in Dniper. This is an unacceptable situation that will be properly studied, analysed at the highest level. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has already been given an appropriate mandate to study the reasons for this situation with a view to preventing these or such tragedies in the future. It is not safe for our military personnel to die at the hands of their brothers in the face of Russian aggression. As for today's speech, the energy security of our country, the current challenges and current issues that the government is addressing today, my report will be made up of two parts. The first part will relate to the current situation of the heating season, the second part is the strategic steps that the government is taking to strengthen Ukraine's energy security, as well as the transformation of the Ukrainian energy system. So on the topical issues of the heating season. At the beginning of October, there were many claims that we would freeze to death in November in the dark. In November there were allegations that the coal would run out, the light would run out, the heat would run out. Similarly, in December, we heard constantly that there would be bleating, and on January, questionable analysts predicted that the gas would run out. As you can see, this information and these information scarecrows are not true or true. Ukraine's energy system is working steady. All consumers are provided with electricity, no fissures in 2021-2022 were and are not foreseen. We have enough energy to sustain this heating season. It's a key medium that's important to know and understand. Now for details that are based solely on facts. This heating season takes place in conditions of unprecedented challenges not only for Ukraine but also for the whole world. Prices for gas, coal, oil, and other energy sources rise to record levels. All of this is also accompanied by increased consumption of electricity in the context of business recovery in Ukraine. For example, during the 25 days of January of this year, electricity consumption is more than five percent higher than last year’s consumption. The main load in this heating season is the atomic generation: 14 nuclear power stations are currently operating, 26 January has been put into operation power cells number 1 of the Hmelnicka AES, and the fourth power grid of the Zaporezki AES. At the beginning of February, it is planned to complete the planned current repair of the 4th level AES energy cloud and to include it in the network, which will provide 15 blocks of nuclear power plants. At the same time, there is an active increase in the supply of coal to warehouses, as well as its production and imports. Today, we have about 800,000 tons of coal in storage that was already above last year for the same period, and since the beginning of the year, coal mining in Ukrainian mines has increased by almost 20 percent to the same period last year. So we're raising the production of Ukrainian coal. The government, together with energy-generating enterprises, Ukrzalznice, the Ukrainian Maritime Port Administration, is providing diversification of sources of coal supply, and today coal imports are mainly carried out by sea. Since November 21, there have been 14 vessels with energy coals in Ukraine, plus 1 million tons. There are negotiations on increasing coal supply for February/March this year. In general, in the first quarter, coal supply is planned for TES warehouses at 6 million tons of coal in total in the quarter, with an estimated carbon cost of 5.5 million tons, which is going to increase. Thus, Ukraine's energy system works steadily during the winter period, is balanced by the amount of revenue and fuel consumption, including coal. The second question, which concerns the current challenges of the heating season, is a sufficient amount of gas. And now we have about 11.5 billion cubic meters in the gas shelters. According to its own production, Naftogaz plans to get another 2.3 billion meters of cubic gas in the first quarter of the 22nd year. The Ministry of Energy monitors the situation every day and is in constant consultation with Naftogaz to not only keep this heating season steady, but also to prepare normally for the next heating season. The operator of the Ukrainian gas transport system is also actively working to create alternative guaranteed gas imports. OGTSU and the US GTS Operator agreed to extend the guaranteed capacity for transporting natural gas from Hungary to Ukraine by September 30, this year, which will significantly increase the capacity to inject gas by Ukraine for the next heating season. Since January 1, 22, we've increased the guaranteed capacity to import gas into Ukraine by almost 30 percent, now it has a total volume of about 35 million cubic meters per day. Despite all these challenges and challenges, the authorities have been able to protect Ukrainians from a substantial increase in energy prices in the world's markets, especially by lowering electricity tariffs, by introducing annual gas prices for the population, prices are not rising. The Minister’s office has fulfilled its obligations under a memorandum to local self - government, which places the local authorities under an obligation not to increase tariffs on hot and hot water. Subsidy support has been increased and there is no debt on subsidies, they are received by every person who turns and who really needs such support from the state to pay for utilities. Similarly, the government continues to support business in order to reduce the impact of significant energy prices. In order to curb price increases and prevent the production of socially important goods, the government introduced a maximum price for gas, as well as for some of the socially important goods, and on January 26, almost 15 million cubic metres at an average price of 10 to 18 dollars per cube were implemented according to the specified mechanism. At the same time, other important business support programs continue. For example, under 5-7-9, almost 85 billion dollars of cheap loans have already been issued. This programme has also been expanded, and now Ukrainian small and medium-sized businesses can receive financial lysing for appropriate percentages, portfolio guarantees for MSBs of almost 10 billion dollars, more than 4 billion dollars a year to support farmers, billions of dollars in support and industrial development, effective implementation of the eSupport program, the launch of cheap mortgage lending, the City Act, the development of industrial parks, the implementation of the Investment Act. All of these, as well as dozens of other programs and projects, will help improve investment climate and increase the economy. All of this will be anchored and ensured by the macroeconomic and energy stability of our nation. I can say exactly that the government is fully implementing and will perform all the necessary tasks to ensure the sustainable operation of the energy sector and this heating season, and the next heating season, and in 2022. Now, some of the strategic steps that relate to energy security and increasing Ukraine’s energy dependency. ENTSO-E. The work on the integration of Ukraine's energy system with the ENTSO-E system or so-called energy failure is actively ongoing. Ukraine is unfailingly committed to full integration, which will give Ukraine real independence and the opportunity to separate itself from the energy systems of the Russian Federation and Belarus. This will reduce Russia’s influence on both the energy sector within the country and on European countries. In addition to the safety part, energy failure will have a positive impact on the stability of the energy system, the overall technological level of operation, and the market environment will be strengthened by increasing competition and demonopolizing the electricity market. Nearly all the necessary tasks have been accomplished and Ukraine is ready for synchronization. Particularly in December 2021, the NEC "Krennergo" has introduced changes to the Transfer System Code, which are necessary to regulate the process of isolation. The next month, a planned test of Ukraine's energy system in isolation during the winter peaks, is to conduct systematic tests of Ukraine and Moldova's energy system in a single block of regulation isolated from the synchronous zone of the SND and Baltic countries. It's its own gas production. The next step towards strengthening energy security is to increase its own production of Ukrainian gas. To that end, we are actively developing a public private partnership tool. As of now, Ukraine has entered into 11 production distribution agreements and this is corresponding to more than $10 billion in investment only in the development and initial infrastructure of gas production in Ukraine. Our long-term goal, which is anchored in the national economic strategy by 2030, is to provide 100 per cent of Ukraine's natural gas needs at the expense of its own Ukrainian production. At the same time, the system with special permits, which for a long time were a field of corruption -- so-called sleep licenses, which were handed over, were sold from hand to hand to hand by impregnable companies that had no connection to gas production. At present, special permits are issued exclusively at transparent and fair auctions, and areas receive public and private companies, thus investing in gas and creating potential for increasing the production of Ukrainian gas. We expect Naftogaz to break this year’s decline trend since 2018. This is one of the main performance indicators that we're putting in front of the head of the Naftogaz State Company. Thermalization. The next step is to implement the initiative of the President of Ukraine to scale the thermomodernization of buildings. This year we're starting to warm up thousands of apartment buildings. The thermomodernization of buildings will reduce the cost of heat and gas consumption, and the smaller the losses, the smaller the payments will be. Already, communities in various areas are applying to participate in a program that will be the largest in the history of our independence. In addition, we expect at least 500 energy-efficient projects to be implemented, thanks to the Energy Efficiency Fund, we have potential, including through the support of our international partners. By the end of January, the Energy Efficiency Fund had received over 900 applications from co-owners of multi-housing housing units to participate in the Energodim programme, a total cost of more than 7.3 billion dollars, grants of 4.5 billion dollars. More than 80,000 families and more than 200 homes have become part of the program, either in part or in full. I want to make sure that this is just the beginning and we will work hard towards modernizing the housing fund that will save our energy resources. By increasing gas production as well as the thermo-modernization program, we will be able to get to the level in a few years when Ukraine is fully self-sustained. With regard to the gas issue, we are actively continuing our cooperation with our European partners. Ukrainian gas shelters have a volume of 33 billion cubic meters, which we usually use about 20 to 24 billion cubic meters. Sometimes it can be a little bit more. In any case, we can use our gas shelters as a gas safe for European companies in Europe. Now foreign companies are holding part of their gas in customs in Ukraine, but we will negotiate with our European partners to make this process more systematic. Such a gas fund can stabilize possible energy crises like what we see today. Two more very practical issues that are also relevant to the energy security of our nation are the transformation of coal regions, as well as the green transformation of Ukrainian energy. The coal industry cannot remain in the neglected state to which it has been brought for decades. Ukraine needs a modern and working coal sector that can provide stable coal supply for businesses and a stable, safe, well - paying job for our miners. So now we're working on three main ways of reforming the sector: it's a charge of lava for prospective mines, it's a security. to provide for the State's own needs, to seek investors or to make a fair transformation for everyone else. In both cases, substantial investments are needed to make changes. This means that the transformation will take place through the resources and tools of the state, private business and Ukraine's international partners. The EU countries, international financial organisations, are ready to join such a programme. Since last year, we have intensified negotiations with our international partners to promote financial and organizational support for the gradual and equitable transformation of the economies of coal-mine-dependent communities. Such communities will be given preferences, finances, and opportunities to open new businesses, and people can get a normal job that is not directly related to the coal industry. Already this year, we are launching two of the first pilots of the transformation projects in Mirnograd and Red Town. But I would like to emphasize that this transformation is not exactly a one-year issue, but a strategic task that will be carried out in line with our international commitments, in line with our 2030 strategic plans, until the year 2040. The last topic I'd like to provide today is the green transformation of Ukrainian energy in line with the European Green Course. One of the most ambitious projects in this direction remains the development of hydrogen energy in Ukraine. Our country has considerable potential in the production of clean energy and is identified by one of the potential partners of the European Union for production and supply in the EU's water strategy. That's why we're set up to develop hydrogen technology, to create a hydrogen ecosystem, is one of the most important ways to negotiate with the European Union. This will not only contribute to the green transition, strengthen Ukraine's energy independence, but also allow billions of dollars of investment to transform our energy system, into its ecologicality. Last but not least, the transformation of Ukrainian energy is one of the main challenges facing our nation for the coming years. This puts a great deal of responsibility on our government, on the Supreme Council, that puts our trust and gives us the understanding that we are always ready to cooperate. And we really want to put in place the best practices, the world experience of this transformation, it will, of course, improve our environmental situation, it will, of course, enhance our energy independence. Thank you for your attention. I'll be ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, thank you to the Prime Minister. Let us turn to the questions of the rapporteurs from the MP factions and groups. Please sign up for the question. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to Wolin Mikhail Yakovic, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u10	Mr. Prime Minister, you're constantly responding to the challenges of miners, the failure to pay your wages, something that can be solved, something that can't be solved. You mentioned Lviv coal today. So what I'm saying is that when you say there's going to be money for the lava charge. If the funds are sent to Lvivcarbon accounts, the tax will take them away unacceptably. Debt, a tax debt of 345 million in all previous years. Everything that's going on is going to write down the debts and the pennies that are broken, and no wages will be paid until the miners show up near the President's Office, near the Cabinet of Ministers. And all of our efforts with you are futile because we need to see how to unlock this system. And besides, all the corruption that's around the coal industry, the energy complex, that's where we need you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u11	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u12	Thank you. Well, there was no such question. I've revealed most of the answers to that question in my speech. I would like to point out that in 11 months last year, state-owned coal companies accounted for 7.7 billion dollars of wages, directed at 7.4 billion dollars, with 4.5 billion or more 60 percent from the budget. In front of the directors of the mines, you know, it's a job to direct most coal revenues to miners to pay their wages. This is very important because it is also the personal responsibility of the directors of coal mines and managers of carbon dioxide companies. And this question, of course, has to be controlled by the Minister of Energy every week. On the questions you ask on separate mines. Of course, there's going to be an energy minister's assignment, and we're going to join other ministries if we have to, and coal miners have to be paid. This is my personal position, you also know the miracle, we're always doing our best to ensure that we don't have any debts. But we still need to move in the way that I strategically outlined in my presentation, in my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u13	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, the European Solidarity faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, "European Solidarity" is now in a politically motivated court, where Zelensky is trying to banish Dustenk for not freezing the country in 2014-2015. Our faction filed with the D.B.I., with the Attorney General's Office for the crime of Zelenski and you for buying coal in the Russian Federation's aggressor countries for 2 billion dollars. You're funding today an army of aggressor countries gathered hundreds of times near our borders. Are you willing to give this witness and answer? And the second question to the Minister of Internal Affairs. Mr. Monastery, you say you were at the Maidan. Please tell me why the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the police today are using provocations against a peaceful protest, especially the beating of peaceful Protestants on January 19. And today, despite our conversation the day before with the police, there have been attempts at provocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u15	The state did not import or import coal from the Russian Federation. So if you have filed a statement with the law enforcement authorities, please let the law enforcement authorities draw their own conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u16	Please, I'll ask you again, the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich, although we have half an hour of questions to ask the government later, but it's all the same time. Please, Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u17	A peaceful protest remains peaceful until violence against other protestors, as well as with the citizens involved, and generally with those in the territory, as well as with the law enforcement officers. If such actions are initiated by persons acting in such a way, they are, of course, subject to the necessary measures under the law. That is why I support the guaranteed right to peaceful protest, but I object to traumatized law enforcement or ordinary citizens during these peaceful protests. I'll give you an example: in the last protest this week, 18 law enforcement officers were injured, and that's a terrible figure for a civilized state, if we're talking to you about a peaceful protest. But nevertheless, I clearly advocate the right to a peaceful protest and do everything I can to ensure that such a right is realized by all those who wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u18	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Yanchenko Galini Igorovni, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u19	Good afternoon, Galina Yanchenko, Servant of the People. I have a question for Alexia Reznikov. We know that you've been on a lot of missions lately, negotiating, informing the deputy corps what assistance Ukraine can expect in the near future, especially in the context of all events. That's the first question. And the second question is about women. In December, a broad resonance raised the question of what seemed to be a mandatory appeal for women. Again, we know that the President has given you the task of dealing with this situation and taking action. Please inform us what steps you are planning to take or perhaps have already been taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u20	Thank you. We're getting planes today from the United States on the basis of a $200 million aid package. We were assisted by antitank antitank measures from the United Kingdom of Sweden’s production. We're waiting for help right now and we're processing papers from the Baltic States. We are now receiving financial support from the Government of Canada, the Government of Denmark, and we are continuing this work and we are very serious today, in a good way, the lobby of our partners. And some of the details, what we're getting from the point of view of weapons and weapons, I can't sound, but believe me, it's seriously increasing our defenses. Next is about the women's appeal. Indeed, the Law of Ukraine. In March last year, an appropriate law was passed with changes. But, indeed, the number of professions and specialties that would bind women was very resonant, and it was frightening that they should pay fines and their employers. I want to calm everyone down, no fines today will be paid, no employers, no women. Today, the order has been changed to reduce the number of professions, the specialties that are needed now, only in response to the threat and development of the Armed Forces. The general headquarters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the execution of the mandate has prepared this reduction, it has been substantially reduced and submitted for reconciliation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Foreign Intelligence Service and the Ukrainian Security Service. It will then be sent to the Ministry of Justice and will be published accordingly. Women, don't worry, it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u21	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, a faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u22	To the Prime Minister. Good afternoon. How much does it cost the budgets of the communities to keep the tariffs on heat at the level of last year? And wouldn't it be fairer and more effective to strengthen the targeted utility subsidies programme and start mass thermo-modernization from the budget institutions? And to the Secretary of Defense, please. How do you feel about the offer to have a team of terrorists, the one at the stake, formed from the ATOs, officers who received real combat experience at ATO? That these are the people who have been given responsibility for this and the jobs is the guarantee that we will overcome the simulations that have been in the conflict to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. I was just opening it in my report. A memorandum was signed by the government and local authorities last year (there are two memoranda: a second memorandum was signed in the spring and the days preceding the heating season), according to which the State transferred 4 percent of the PDF to local government authorities. Thank you, the MPs also supported it. This is the sum of about 22-23 billion dollars that the state has passed on to local government authorities, actually, to compensate for this tariff retention. In addition, excise duty was also left in place -- that's what was voted in the State Budget Act. So two of these sources are essentially more than 30 billion dollars a year after the results of the local self-government. On the part of local self - government authorities, there will also be some additional investments that are much smaller but proportionate to budgets. In addition, the government has made a commitment: There are 66 communities whose tax index is lower, and they need to be supported, a separate grant will be provided to enable them to keep their budgets in normal condition at the tariffs that protect people today. So all the terms of the memorandum. In addition, another condition was met by the government to cover the difference in tariffs before the heating company for the sum of about 22 billion dollars. So this is the price for the state of these things. But we're talking about protecting people, we're talking about making tariffs economically sound to Ukrainians in cities and towns. That's actually what you asked. And then I pass the word to my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u24	Dear National MPs, I remind you once again: the formation of the battalions and the territorial defence brigades of Ukraine has something to do with the formation of forces -- the Ukrainian Armed Forces. At first, there's a core of 10,000 military personnel, an increase in the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces you voted last year, these are personnel officers. The second wave is the formation of a human reserve among the inhabitants of those populace that live in the locations of the battalions and brigades, which, of course, may be veterans of the Ukrainian-Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u25	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich, MP of "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u27	Sergey the Great, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u28	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, we represent the mining district of Lugansk. The miners and their families ask us daily why we should buy bread, how we should put our children in school. These questions do not simply arise. The miners are constantly being delayed from paying their wages, and today there is a debt to miners, and this applies to all the mines in the districts represented by Sergey the Great, Alexander Sukhiv. These are the Lysicanskwogil companies, the Firstwater Coal companies, which are on the line of delimitation. For many families, the wages of miners are the only source of income. And how do they live, can you answer? The same thing is repeated every year, but there is no solution. Sailors require you to name the date of repayment of the debt on your salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. I've already opened it twice today. The Minister of Energy is constantly in control of the issue of the wages of miners. The State fully implements its commitment to the state’s contribution to the payment of wages to miners. Once again, my firm commission to the miners is to pay at least 80 percent of coal mining revenue to pay the miners wages. And besides, I've also been sounding projects for a fair transformation of coal regions, which are being implemented in conjunction with our international partners, which are also supposed to carry out appropriate reform of the coal sector and bring order there, improve the situation. But in addition, I will also ask the Minister of Energy to complete my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u30	Yeah, thanks for asking. In fact, we are constantly in control of this issue of payout, especially at the expense of the budget, and when it comes to it, and in the past year and this year, we will do so, in an appropriate manner, we will approach the sums to cover fully the sums to be paid from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u31	Please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u32	Please give Taras the voice of Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u33	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u34	Thank you. I have a question to the minister, two questions to the foreign minister. First. Ask Dmitri Ivanovich to comment on yesterday's phone call, a conversation between the presidents of Ukraine and the United States. Because there are different judgements that in the American media, there are many warnings in the Ukrainian media, which, well, they don't quite develop, so to speak. That's the first question. And the question to the Secretary of Defense, well, we are. and to the government as a whole. Well, we're looking forward to legislative proposals, legislative initiatives from you on strengthening the country's security, changing the state's current budget so that the MPs themselves don't engage. Because it looks more populist, like. We talked about this with you, including in the terrorist section, the 2.7 billion. We look forward to voting, whether in plenary or outside plenary, so that these costs do not burden the local authorities. Alexi Juryovich, we are looking forward to such legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u35	Thank you so much for your willingness and carelessness. The finance minister and I are already working on it and we're going to ask you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u36	The presidents ’ conversation yesterday was lengthy, open, and constructive. All key positions by the United States regarding the inadmissibility of any deal behind Ukraine's back and Ukraine's support for specific assistance have been confirmed. The media reports about the tension and some conflict that took place yesterday are unreliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u37	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u38	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u39	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have information for the Prime Minister and the so-called Minister of Health. At the beginning of last year in Spain, whose population was 48 million, and which one of the first, along with Italy, took COVID, the dead were 50,000, unfortunately, now 92 thousand 764, and we feel for our Spanish partners. There were 18.5,000 in Ukraine at the time, and now there are 99,000 882 -- 7 thousand 115 more -- we've caught up and we've driven Spain. And Ukrainians pay their lives for their criminal inaction and negligence of power. How did this become possible? And don't you gentlemen want to repent and retire, the sooner the better? Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u41	The Minister of Health, like all Ukrainian physicians, is doing everything possible to ensure that Ukrainians are given the opportunity to be vaccinated, protected, and not sick of the coronavirus. It's absolutely practical to work 24/7 by both the minister and the entire ministry, just like all Ukrainian medical professionals today. So I'm going to ask, first of all, that it's right to treat the people who are actually working with complete commitment today, and that's the second front for our state. We really have a great deal of sympathy for those who lost their loved ones to the coronavirus around the world and in Ukraine, especially, but we are today as a state, as authorities have provided the opportunity for all to be vaccinated, and this is a very important moment that today the minister of health spoke of from the rostrum, that vaccinations save even from hospitalization, that there are virtually no immunized people in resuscitations. So once again, using this opportunity, I urge Ukrainians to vaccinate, protect themselves and their families so that we don't make this sad statistics worse, as the National MP says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u42	Thank you. Another question from the Presidium. Olena Kostvena Kondratjuk, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u43	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Dennis, you know that in the time of the onset of external aggression, we understand that for the aggressor country there is also an important issue of internal destabilisation of the situation in the country. This is especially true of our country’s economic situation. Please tell me, does the government already have some planned package of measures to stop the price hikes for goods and services in the 22nd year? We know that, for example, in the post-harvest period, the Polish government is now reducing VAT from 1 February to 0 percent to stabilize food prices in the country. What plans does the government have in place in the country in general so that the situation will somehow be resolved and there will be no manual price regulation? And please tell me, what is your position on FOP fines for failure of the RRO system? Does the government even support the suspension of fines for those who have failed to establish an RRO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u44	Thank you very much for your question. Regarding the RRO, I'm going to answer right now: we support, the government supports the position that the RRO should be established in a step-by-step manner, and of course we are in full coordination with Mr. Getmance, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that the state wins from the point of view that we are moving towards a civilized business, a civilized world, and we are not suffering people who are now gradually moving to the RRO. And I'm going to remind you that RRO is an accounting registrar, which is a software product, and it's not about tens of thousands of dollars of money spent on cash machines. It's different things, it's also got to be understood and divided. With regard to the issues that the government is currently working on in support of business. You know that the government has made the right decision to protect producers of social products. Today, about 260 companies that produce social products that are defined by the list, determination, are both bread and milk, or basic consumer products that have social significance. Today I just reported it from the rostrum. The producers of these products have the opportunity to buy gas on the market at prices ranging from 11 to 18,000 dollars, which is, of course, a little bit lower than today in the international market, which allows these producers today to keep, as appropriate, the price does not increase, thus protecting those species of the population that most consume social products. In addition, a number of programs are running, and I've already mentioned them today, a few dozen, support for the Ukrainian business. First of all, it's a 5-7-9 program to support small and medium-sized businesses. There are a number of portfolio guarantees, there are a number of farmer support programs. So all of these programs, of course, are helping to support business today. For other programs, of course, the ministries of profile are working on further development of support, stabilising the situation and supporting business as the basis of who creates GDP, who influences it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving to the final stage -- this is a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government from the national MPs. People's deputies please sign up for questions. Please, National Deputy Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u46	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Mr. Prime Minister, one minute is not enough to discuss, but two fundamental moments. First of all, we're a little confused. The government and you personally say that we have everything in our energy, and at the same time we are forced to, we are seeking emergency support for the Belarusian energy system, and we are taking this emergency support there. The other one. You can assure us that the gas reservoirs are at 11.5 billion today, but you immediately say that in February we start importing and attaching gas. Mr. Prime Minister, the gas is implanted in May, you know, it can't be implanted in February. Then you can work something out. And the last one is a thermo-modernization program. I'm, with all due respect, and we're ready to support this, so far there's a lot more slogans than programs. Take the law, read it, adopt the state modernization program, and it will bring us together as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u47	Thank you. With regard to the so-called emergency support that you mentioned, which Ukraine is taking if needed in our neighbors, with whom we are synchronized. I want to ask you to look at the figures in previous years, how many times did Ukraine take emergency support in every heating season, how many times did Ukraine provide emergency support to our neighbours in Poland, Slovakia this year in particular. So these are technological things that, in principle, I don't think are politically debateable. These are really technical things that happen, well, if not every week, they happen exactly, and they happen on both sides -- as we help our partners, so our partners help us. Technically, it's a technical thing. In terms of thermo-modernization. The Energy Efficiency Fund has been operating for the third year, an extremely polished program. I've been talking about this from the rostrum today: more than a thousand applications, about 200 OSBs have already taken advantage of this program, it's taking turns, it's developing, all the necessary legislation, all the necessary regulations are adopted, the fund is funded by 50 Ukrainian budgets, and 50 percent give donors on a grant basis irrevocably. Besides, this year we're starting to scale this program and make the thermo-modernization bigger. We might really ask for a separate amendment to legislation to simplify the process of thermomodernization and accelerate this process, because we need to power up and make energy efficient tens of thousands of apartment buildings. We don't have a hundred years to do this, we have to do this literally in two or three years, at most five years to make Ukraine energy independent, because this will allow us to save about 30 or 40 percent of the gas we consume. So we are very actively working on this program, and we will be grateful for the assistance of the PIC, the National Deputies, in the necessary changes that we will offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u48	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bogdanac Andrija Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u49	Good afternoon. Please give my word to my colleague, Dmitri Solomchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u50	Dmitri Soloczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u51	Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, I have approached you on the subject of border inspection points, but I want everyone to hear about this and you have placed on clear control that, as of July 5, this year, all imports of food into Ukraine will be stopped, so will imports of all animals, and in a year, all exports. In 2019, the World Bank provided 200 million for the construction of border inspection posts, and the law was passed in the Supreme Council. Poland, Moldova built in a year and a half, we go to the State Service every day -- we don't build. In some ways, do not stop importing and exporting food and animals. The animal complex needs to be developed in Ukraine, with support. How are we going to drive?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. We've really discussed this with you. We simply accept your question as a parliamentary address and will soon give you an open answer as to how we are moving from organizing this process according to, indeed, the current legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u53	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Stepi Sergey Sergiyovitch faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u54	Please pass on the word Yatzik Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u55	Julia Yatzik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a question for Herman Valeriovich in connection with the Supreme Council Order 5382, which we voted back in April last year, about the use of measures to return the electricity charges to the residents of the observation zone around the AES. So I have a question: what is the fate of this decision? And the second question. What is the share of subsidies of the so-called atomic subsidy for these areas since last year that have not been directed to the community and, unfortunately, they have not been able to benefit from this subsidy? I know it's temporary, so please expedite the channelling of these funds to the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u57	Thank you so much for asking. So it's about the first question of electricity benefits for residents of the nuclear power plant. There is now an appropriate PSO Regulation, which, by the way, has been reduced tariffs for most households. And so it's going to be in operation by May 1st, and it's going to be processed and reviewed soon, and we're going to be looking at that question as well. Regarding the atomic subsidy, it's about 135 million dollars, it's not going anywhere, it's going to go anywhere this year, it's going to go through this year, and accordingly, the money manager of this fund is the Region, and it's going to be properly worked and directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u58	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Litvinov Alexandr Mikolaiovich, faction of the political "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Janchenko Galin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u60	Galina Yanchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u61	I have a question for Denis Anatolyovich Monastirski. The Honourable Minister of Interior, in fact the whole of January and part of December, was once again a great deal of social resonance, including, among other things, some former politicians and former ministers on police salaries. We know that, of course, such risky work should be rewarded. And in this context, both the MP Corps and society are interested, and probably the police in the first place. What's going to happen to the wages? What measures has the government taken to date? As a parliament, we will also take these initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. In fact, I have to correct something else that the Ministry of Internal Affairs system is not just police officers who do their duty with dignity, but rescue workers, as well as National Guard fighters, the State Migration Service, who also carry out their service daily for a relatively small cost. We've all understood, working on the state budget, that increasing wages for rescue workers and police officers is a necessity, because in the last three years, it's almost impossible to do so. And we've actually agreed with you that if there's any extra revenue coming in for the state budget, these funds will be directed at raising the money for the police, rescuers and guards, and so on. In fact, the first two months of this operation, Excise, showed plus 2.3 billion compared to the previous period to the state budget of Ukraine. This is already a significant indicator, and the President has given the government a 10 percent raise in salary since February for all rescue workers, police officers, security officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. This is fair, considering the risks they face daily. I recall, even yesterday when a dangerous criminal was detained, of course, they were patrolmen and they knew that they would meet a man with a gun. And now, in a few days, first of all, police salaries, some groups are already receiving support and wage increases. These are patrols, special forces, and police officers serving in the OOS area. I think that's fair, and we'll be able to make a further 10 percent increase over the course of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u63	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mazurash Georgiyyyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u64	I have a question for two of our ministers, to the minister of youth and sports, Vadim Markovich Gutzait. We have a winter start in the nose of the Olympics. Tell us, did the nation do all it could to ensure that our Olympics were well prepared, and can we expect medals as well? Although the Winter Olympics are not our wire, as they say. And I have a second question to Victor Kirilovich Láška, Minister of Health. We talked to you about the prospects of providing citizens with a real alternative so that there wouldn't be such an indirect compulsion because someone didn't have vaccinations, vaccinations, that is, because they didn't want to be vaccinated. I've been vaccinated twice myself, and I recommend it to everyone, but I think it's important to ensure that people can take responsibility for, for example, treatment if they get COVID, but not for vaccination. And that will help, by the way, raise the level of vaccination, I'm convinced that by communicating with people.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. Good afternoon, fellow MPs. I want to point out that the Ministry has done everything to ensure that our athletes are properly prepared. Everything was planned, all the funds were budgeted for training congregations, for participation in competitions. We bought all the equipment in full time, two or three months before that, because athletes had to train on new equipment and go to training congregations abroad. Unfortunately, there's not enough winter infrastructure, they're all training abroad, but we're doing today, you see how much summer infrastructure is being built for all of our Olympic sports. And now we're doing winter sports, too, in Ukraine. Now we're finishing up the Biathlon Beef base, and now we're planning to develop the entire winter infrastructure. Let us hope that our Olympics are worthy of representing us at the Olympic Games. Yes, yes, we will not expect many medals, honestly, but we will believe that our athletes will be on the pedestal. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u66	It's a good word. Ah, there's another question. Yes, yes, I'm sorry, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. In the Ministry of Health in the day-to-day fight against coronary disease, there are two questions: prevention and treatment if a person is infected and needs medical attention. It's about prevention. The only effective protection for prevention is vaccination. The state has ensured access to a vaccine for choice, any one the Ukrainian wants, and free of charge, is being held in our country's medical facilities. In addition, if a person is sick, whether he is vaccinated or not, medical care in health care facilities that are designated for the hospitalization of patients with COVID is provided free of charge. As I said in my statement, it is provided for in the State budget and is contracted by health institutions for 19 billion dollars, depending on what package the hospital is contracted for: either ready to respond, or willing to pay for the survivors.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u68	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Fedorovich, the faction of the political party "Sergeant of the People". Please, Sergey Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u69	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the government, the Prime Minister and all members of the Cabinet of Ministers for paying such attention to meetings in Parliament and to the corresponding respect of the Ukrainian electorate. I've known the Parliament of Ukraine since 96 as a journalist, and I've never seen a similar attitude. So thank you, my friends. The other one. Well, I have a question for the ministers myself, but given the faction's offer, I'm giving the word to Mr. Michael Laby for his question. Thank you for your consideration, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u70	Sergey Fedorovich, of course, I'm very sorry, but it was such a long sleep that you took a minute and perhaps someone else would pass it on to Mr. Laby. I'm sorry. Let's move on. Pasic Alexander Stanislavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People"
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u71	Alexander Pasicsky, "Serve of the People", Mikolayevščina. Please pass the word to Yuri Zdebski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u72	Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u73	Yuri Zdebsky, Kharkiv, "Serve of the People" faction. I have a question for the Minister of Defense of Ukraine. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your active position on the launch of automated command systems in the military. Over the years, this work has been done — no result. Hopefully this year will be the first positive outcome. Well, about the question. Could you tell me how state defence orders were executed in 2021? Because there's a lot of windshields going around that this money wasn't fully used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, last year the Ministry of Defense issued a state defence order of 99.5 percent. Accordingly, all the fears that we would not do so were in vain. And this year, it's the beginning of a three-year purchase plan. We're repositioning, we're also waiting for approval by the appropriate profiling committee, the approval by the National Security Council and the defence of the basic indicators, and we're moving on to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u75	Thank you. Next. I was approached by a national MP, Marchuk, who asked me to give the floor to the national deputy of Bakumov. Please, Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u76	Bakumov Alexander, 173 constituency, Kharkiv I have a question for the Vice Prime Minister, Mrs. Irina Vereschuk. Recently, you are visiting the city of Kharkiv, where a round table was held. I wanted to share in the discussion, but, unfortunately, I was not given a word or an opportunity to participate in the discussion. Let my questions now be heard by the whole country, and Vice Prime Minister will remember that there were still colleagues in Parliament and such a Bakumov Alexander National Deputy. What are the real reasons for revoking the bill on the basis of state policy of the transitional period? Specifically, which are legal or political? And recently in your speech, you've said about collaborationism, particularly about understanding this terminology. This terminology: and in Africa, collaborationism is a collaborationism. Are you a supporter of criminalizing this activity, and how will it harmonize with amnesty and the reintegration of temporarily occupied territories? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u77	Thank you. Thank you for asking, Mr. Bakumov. Of course, I remember that there is such a national MP and you have had the opportunity to participate in a round table, and that you have not been given a word -- well, I'm sorry, there's a lot of people who haven't given a word, including the People's Deputy Beervarov, who was, but he's not complaining publicly about the whole country right now. Now about the feedback, as you say, for real reasons. More real than you've seen on the round table, I guess you don't have to look. Because the reality of these reasons has been confirmed by the statements of the leading scientists and lawyers themselves and, for example, by representatives of the Council of Europe and other representatives of the international community, who have clearly indicated that this bill needs to be finalized and, unfortunately, within the framework in which it was submitted to Parliament, it will be impossible to do so. That's why I came from Kharkiv, and then to the Prime Minister, and then to the President, including with a request and an invitation to respond to the drafting of the bill, and I think it's the right decision that will allow us to work out a bill that will meet the national interests of Ukraine. And as for collaborationism, which is also a collaborationism in Africa, I don't know how in Africa, but we have a really huge legal problem, and before we go to establishing definitions that will have recognition or understanding in society, we need to have a broader discussion. Unfortunately, we are only at the beginning of this journey and I will urge you, including, to participate in this discussion. And I think it's going to be more fruitful and more effective than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as well as myself as Head of Parliament, I would like to address the officials. If you're doing the right thing, I think the participation of the people's deputies is extremely important for us to build communication. That's why I would ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u79	But the thing is, Mr. Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u80	I'd like to take that into account. It's not a claim on a particular case, it's not at all. Fellow dignitaries, later written down by the national deputy Bakumov, pass it on to Kisilevsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u81	Dear Denise Anatolyovich! Dmitry Kisilevski, Dnipro. My question is about the missile program and it's about the Mini-Defense and the Minstrategprom. In Soviet times, in Dniper, KB South and Southnmash produced the most terrifying weapon ever invented by mankind, the missiles of Satan. They also produced a large number of other types of missile weapons that formed the basis of the Soviet missile shield. Now they're actually without orders from the military and, by the way, without space from the country from the Ukrainian. This is surprising because in Dniper, rockets can be produced, the very fact of which will substantially strengthen our negotiating position and bring peace closer to our foreign partners' statements, even though they are important. So it's a question. What is the status of the missile program? How do you see its funding? And what is the role of the Danish companies in implementing the rocket program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u82	Is that a question for the Secretary of Defense or the Minister of Strategic Industry?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u83	I'll start and give it to the Minister of Strategic Industry. So the U.S. State Budget Act of 2022 provides for a budget programme for development, procurement, modernization, repair of arms and military equipment, funds, equipment from a general state budget allocation of 28.4 billion dollars, which is actually a quarter more than last year and much more than the previous year included a missile program. So it is, it's being done. And then I'm going to ask the Minister of Strategic Industry, if necessary and the Minister of Defense, to provide more detailed information, one that we can give in the open mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u84	Thank you. The rocket program is now in the process of agreement. There are included orders for the companies mentioned in the book of Acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u85	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nagornyak Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u86	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, reverend government. Dennis Anatoliyovich, I have a proposal for you to create a government commission to control food prices, fuel prices, medicines, and to assign district government authorities to control this process because prices are rising every day. Unfortunately, most Ukrainians are outside the poverty line, and even in the villages there are so many cases that people can't afford Greek grain, they buy pearls. Therefore, the request that the government create such a commission and control pricing in small villages and cities. Because private entrepreneurs and large trading networks, unfortunately, allow themselves to increase and increase marginality daily, motivated by the increase in fuel prices at other costs. But the thing is, prices go up so fast that people don't even catch up with them. Therefore, the request is made to both the administrations and to create such a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u87	Thank you. Here I'm going to divide the answer into two parts. The first part. Our job with you as an authority is to make sure that people's income goes up faster than market prices go up. We're not living in a planned economy, we're living in a market economy, so we have to raise people's well-being by increasing their incomes, by accelerating their rates, by increasing prices. That's the first part, and we're doing it. Part two. The Ministry of Economics on a daily basis is doing what you propose. So through district government administrations, every day, price monitoring for socially significant goods, according to the government, when we see that people are no longer doing what we have, they're in the market economy so far in Ukraine, even though they're semi-marketable. We regulate the price of social products, namely, fuel, gas and diesel, which are related to social goods; gas, which is related to social goods; and food products, which are also related to social goods. And the price is now set at 10 percent in total, for gas and gasoline at a price of not more than 5 and 7 dollars respectively. And gas is sold for companies that produce socially significant products at a price of not more than 25 percent. So these are the measures the government has now taken to protect people from sharp price increases. In addition, on the basis of monitoring, we constantly watch and monitor where and what other measures can be taken by the government. And also, if necessary, we will offer our proposals to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u88	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u89	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. I have two questions. First question to the minister of health. I'm asking how my mom and mom and dad are doing with a lot of other kids. Please tell me, is the Ministry of Health planning to allow children between 5 and 12 years of age to be vaccinated? This is permitted in other parts of the world. Today, I would like as a mother to be able to protect my child. Second question to the Prime Minister. In the report, you said that thousands of buildings were planned to be upgraded. At the same time, the funding allocated does not actually allow thousands of buildings to be upgraded. Please tell me how much money is being allocated right now and is going to be allocated extra for modernization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. No vaccine manufacturer has today changed the instructions for registered immunobiological drugs used to vaccinate against COVID-19 to allow children between 5 and 12 years of age to be vaccinated. Today, we have the opportunity to vaccinate children from 12 years of age or older, since appropriate changes have been made to the instructions in Ukraine. We also communicate further with the World Health Organization’s Office and with manufacturers who have undergone some clinical trials and who use coronary disease vaccines to inoculate children from 5 years of age or older. If changes are made to the registration drugs, immunobiological drugs, the Ministry of Health will certainly not put a block in place to expand the population of Ukrainians who are subject to vaccination against coronary disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u91	Thank you. Next, National Deputy Ionov is handing over to National Deputy Sumar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u92	It'll be my particle.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u93	I'm sorry, another piece of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u94	Thank you. So it's an important question. The first is that we have an energy efficiency fund in the Minregion, in the development of communities and territories. I said it's financed by 50 by 50 from the budget and from the donors. There's a total of 5.5 billion dollars in this fund's accounts right now, and there's about a thousand, over 900 applications from OSBB for thermomodernization. This is what is already being done and done. In addition, we have 30 billion dollars in our budget for the recapitalisation of the company Skrfinjitlo, which will actually be running a state-owned mortgage rate of less than 5 percent, and after thermomodernization, that's another 30 billion dollars in total for these two directions. So the necessary money is for all the things I've announced from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sumar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I listened very carefully to the defense minister’s speech. And a lot of interesting things he said were that budget changes needed money, the army needed money, but it needed to be done thoughtfully, not in the fire order. Tell me, please, don't you think it's already burning, what does the whole world really talk about and write about? In this regard, I am very specific to the minister of defense. Please tell me, what prevented you from considering changes to the budget during this break in the work of the Supreme Council deputies? Why has the government not yet come up with its own proposals? You've been a minister for months. Say the same thing, please, how do you feel about the fact that the purchase of Ukrawtodor is 10 times larger than that of the Ukrainian army during the war? And likewise, did you get acquainted with the proposal for changes to the European Solidarity Budget, which propose to allocate 50 billion dollars to the army today? And how do you feel about such proposals to provide the Ukrainian army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u97	Dear national MPs, the panic moods are really burning in some heads, and this is life, this is human psychology. So I ask you all without hysteria and without panic, keep calm, keep calm, this is the most powerful weapon of the Ukrainian people, including. The Ukrainian Armed Forces are ready for the secession and attack of the enemy, as I spoke in my report. Of course, we could not read any budget proposals that had not officially come to us. We did everything necessary during the budget inquiry last year. We've got the right budget allocations. We're doing it calmly, carefully, I repeat, without panic or fuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u98	Thank you. The word is given, and this is the final question, Kostenka Roman Vasilovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u99	Thank you, Mr. Head. I also have a question for the Ukrainian Defence Minister. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. On August 27, the President of Ukraine, by his decree, put into effect the decision of the MPO on the need for the creation of cyberwaves, and in your last speech here I also asked you this question. Recent developments, such as the constant pseudodominance of government authorities and institutions, as well as cyber attacks by the enemy, indicate the urgent need to strengthen the defense in this direction. Please tell me, what is the situation today with the creation of cybervies, the calculation and preparation of material, technical, financial and personal resources for the functioning of cyberwaves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, about the creation of the Cybervies. The decision of the Council of National Security and Defence is appropriate, which is enshrined in the President's decree. I want to remind you that the creation of any army or force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces must take place in accordance with the law. So today, there is a working group on the site of the National Security and Defence Council, which includes all the necessary interested central executive bodies, including the Ministry of Defence, as part of the draft Cyber Security Act, which will form the new structure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But I would like to remind you that today the word "army" probably needs to be changed to "cybersil," because it's the force that makes it possible in legal terms to do more serious maneuvers and more possibilities, and more competences. We therefore hope that this bill will soon come to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, "red time" 00:00, was "yellow," I'd give one more word. That's why. From the procedure? What do you want from the procedure? I'm out of procedure. Well, just out of procedure, Irina Volodymyrna. By procedure, not by purpose, please. Hermit Irina Volodymyrna, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u102	Thank you. I would like to thank our faction for your compliance with the Rules, Mr. Head, and to pay attention to all present, and above all to the government that we are now living in the parliamentary-presidential Republic. And once every two weeks, and sometimes less, once every seven weeks, you come here, a respected government, to answer questions, not revenge. From "European Solidarity," we're expressing a complete disagreement about how you've been giving such contemptible things today, not answers at all, but replicas to our questions. It's very embarrassing when the Prime Minister is lying to the whole country that doesn't buy coal in the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u103	Irina Volodymyr. Irina Volodymyrna, please, from the procedure, that's from the procedure, you've taken the meaning. Please finish the procedure for 20 seconds, let's be honest. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u104	I would recommend to new colleagues to study the Rules, which is the position of dissatisfaction with the answer that each MP has the right to speak and to say that he is not satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u105	Thank you. It's been a while. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done, the hour of questions to the government is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. There's another question from the procedure. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u106	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, given the uneasy working regime of this plenary week, there are many issues that have not been addressed in this session room and that have led many deputies and factions, such as the Fatherland, to the Ukrainian people. That's why I'm proposing to put to the vote the inclusion today of the "Virgin" so that we can end this session of the sixth in fact by saying a lot of things that concern the Ukrainian people and colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u107	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Well, that's a good offer, but it's gonna be a decision. So, dear colleagues, I'm putting the motion to a vote today to add "Variable" after the polls have been announced, and let's see how it's voted in the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:59:35]] For-182 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. Therefore, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, we turn to making inquiries. I give the word of Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Kostovni. Please, Olena Kostvena.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u108	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, during the plenary week, have submitted 106 parliamentary requests of yours, of them to the President of Ukraine - 6, to the Supreme Council - 1, to the Cabinet of Ministers - 56, to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies - 37, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership - 6. Of the past plenary weeks, 29 parliamentary requests have remained unannounced. A total of 135 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. So, Mr. President, according to your vote, we don't vote on the parliamentary motions to the President of Ukraine today. And I'm moving on to reading your MP's questions. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Artema Blackmoorov to the Mikolaivoblanergo Association for the connection of residential buildings to the power grid. Alexander Kunicky to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of statistical information on the operation of the Structural Units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Olega Koljeva to perform the duties of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney-General for an objective investigation into the case of fraudulent investors of an unbuilt house at the address: Odessa City, Gołkowska Street, 5-7. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of essential types of insulin to Ukrainians with diabetes. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt of wages and state-of-the-art procurement of prosthetic state enterprises in Ukraine. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the clarification of environmental legislation. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the company to stop. July of the Lighthouse to the Kharkiv District Council to review the standard of housing security in the Kharkiv region. John Junakov and Elizabeth Bogatsky to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the use of ivermectin for the prevention and treatment of COPID-19. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to increase the social benefits of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Lesi Vasilko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the program "Great Thermomodernization" of Ukraine's buildings. Romana Lozinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the adoption of the State Standard for Accompaniment during Inclusive Education. Roman Lozinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of European security standards for street gaming equipment. Romana Lozinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a regulatory framework for the introduction of high-level student parties. Anatoly of Kostuh to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the question of the assignment of "national" status to the Deserved Academic Zacarpathian People's Choir. Anatolya Kostuha to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine about the provision of information. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possibility of using 1,000 g's of financial assistance. Inoculated citizens to pay for residential services. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the audit of Ukraine's social security system. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the audit and reporting of the results of the implementation of the 2021 priority action plan of the Government in the relevant areas and during the period of management of ministers. Roman Gritchcock to the Attorney General on the chaotic housing structure of the National Aviation University. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the medical care of retired former tax police officers. Oksana Savchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures for the purpose of proper operation of VP "Burstin thermal power station" AT "DTEK Westernergo". Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya and others) to the Attorney General, the head of the Primorski Municipal Council, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of the State Inspectorate of Architecture and the City of Ukraine for information on the implementation of measures of reaction concerning the illegal construction of the coastal recreational zone of Primorsk Zaporezki. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Community Development and the Ukraine on information on the mechanism for the implementation of the State-wide targeted social programme "Drinking Water of Ukraine" for 2022-2026. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of Katerina Nesterenko's appeal to take effective action to protect the rights of persons with disabilities. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on possible violations of maritime legislation. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Kyiv City Public Administration on the use of measures for the proper provision of housing and utility services. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General’s Office on the possible illegal alienation of municipal property. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General, the State Service of Ukraine for work on the need for a comprehensive review of Vladimir Rafalski's appeal regarding the improper investigation of an accident at work. Tetjana Grishchenko to the Attorney General on the need to revitalize the conduct of pretrial investigation of the conduct of 18 June 2020 on the fact that a threat has been made by the deputy of the Žitomir District Council of Žobokritski Evktorovic regarding officials of the State Environmental Inspectorate of the Polish District and the discovery of new criminal conduct. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the work of health workers in educational institutions. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin district government to provide information on the activity of the 23 constituencies in the constituency. Irina Konstanovic to Kolkovsky’s village head on the issue of providing a portion of Kolkovsky District Hospital’s premises in the rental of the Wallin District Emergency Medical Center and Medical Disasters. Nakludova, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of the accident at the Vulnerable Waste Reefs site of Pat "ArselorMital Krivi Rig". Vladimir Timothychuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the inclusion of a municipal non-commercial enterprise "Verhovinska multi-professional hospital" of the Supreme Village Council in the list of health-care institutions that support health care. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova, and others) to the Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine regarding the improper treatment and failure to provide a full and objective response to the parliamentary address of the Ukrainian national deputy, Irina Herachenko. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Paulenka and others) to the Attorney-General on the status of the report on the commission of criminal offences provided for in part one of article 111, part three, of article 258-5, part three, of the Third Article 255 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, together with other Ukrainian citizens and foreign nationals. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Paulenka and others) to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation on the status of the report on the commission of criminal offences provided for in part one of the first article 111, part three of article 258-5, part three of article 255 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, together with other Ukrainian citizens and foreign nationals. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Paulenka and others) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the status of the report on the commission of criminal offences provided for in part one of article 111, part three, of article 258-5, part three, of the Third Article 255 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, together with other Ukrainian citizens and foreign nationals. Groups of National Deputies (Ion’s, Paul’s, and others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on providing information on the fact that there have been some false reports about the preparation of an explosion, arson, or other actions that threaten the death of people or other serious consequences. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Pavlovka, and others) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the abuse of power or official position by officials and officials of the Ukrainian National Police and the Ukrainian State Security Service on 16 - 17 January and 19 January 2022. Irina Friz to the head of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible illegal actions by representatives of State authorities and other persons who may have contributed to the violation of the State sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine and threaten the national security of Ukraine with regard to the provision of information on specific issues of the activities of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of the possible illegal actions of representatives of State authorities and others who may have contributed to the violation of national sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine and threatened national security of Ukraine. Bogdan Thorochti to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine, on the status of implementation of the plan for the reform of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine. Bogdan Torochti, head of the Kirovograd Regional Public Administration for the verification of compliance with the requirements of legislation by the Lighthouse City Head and the Executive Committee of the Lighthouse City Council in the area of housing, education, health, ecology and natural resources. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Executive Committee of the Kharkiv City Council, Kyiv City Public Administration, on the use of measures to provide adequate housing and utility services. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on the steps taken to successfully synchronize Ukraine’s combined energy system with the ENTSO-E system of Europe. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on blocking the accounts of the Lvivcarbon DP. Igora Krivosheeva to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the treatment of children with a diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Bogdan Thorochti to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on specific issues of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Igora Guza to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on the plans of the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine in relation to DP Shahta No.5 "Novolinska" and DP Shahta No.1 "Novolinska". Igora Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the need to respond to problems in the work of the International Ukrainian School (ICC). Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to expand the state's eSupport programme for participants in the ATO and the CCO. Groups of National Deputies (Puszkarenka, Grishchenka, and others) to the Ministry of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, the Žitomir District State Administration, on the need to take appropriate measures to finance health support facilities of the Žitomir Hospital District, which have been added to the list of health support facilities in the hospital districts for the period up to 2023. Nakludova, the Ukrainian Minister of Health, is in charge of the accident at the Vulnerable Wasteyard of Pat "ArselorMitall Curve Rig". Alexia Kovalova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Herson District State Administration for Unsatisfactory Status of Road Coverage of Roadways of General Use of Local Value and Others. Group of National Deputies (Pushkarenka, Grishchenko and others) to the Attorney-General on the provision of information on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal investigations into fires that took place in March-May 2020 in the territory of the Žitomir region and on the revitalization of their investigation. Alexander Ponomaryov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that arose after the validity of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the Approval of the Rules for the Provision of Heat Energy Services and Typical Contracts for the Provision of Heat Energy Services" in the city of Berdjansk Zaporez. Valery Gnatenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the issue of the provision of internally displaced persons with the right conditions for residence in the town of Drędkovka, Donetsk Region. Valery Gnatenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on how to address the issue of the application of electricity to government coal companies. Group of National Deputies (Cuzminy, Grishchenko, Kostuka) to head the Žitomir District Council on the use of measures to reconstruct the literary and memorial museum of the Forest of Ukraine in the city of Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk. Maxim Dirdin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an inappropriate response to the MP's request for the appointment of Barabbas M.O. to serve as deputy head of DIAM. Anatolya Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian district government regarding infrastructure objects on Zakarpatta that need capital and current repairs. Anatolya Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathia District State Administration to provide information on educational institutions that need to be installed internally. Solomy Bobrowski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the termination of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence's "Iskra" casino company as a result of the likely cancellation of the defence order. Solomy Bobrowski to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the use of response measures regarding the violation of TV and radio broadcasting legislation by the TV channel. Alexander Sukhova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the labour rights of Ukrainian seamen in part of the illegal coercion to re-confirm a diploma for working on the ship. Anastasia Lashenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine for enabling Ukrainian citizens who have received a full vaccination course from COVID-19's acute respiratory disease to receive state aid under the eSupport Programme not only through the mobile supplement of the Act Portal. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the eSupport programme and for the provision of access to medicines and for the payment of the cost of housing services consumed under the eSupport Programme, not only for people over 60 years of age, but for all citizens of Ukraine who received a full vaccination course from acute respiratory disease COVID-19. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin district government for the repair of the road to the general use of local value in 2022. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of evidence from the personnel files of the VAT "Liviv Telegraph Factory". Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional grants to all budgets at the central level, taking into account the reserve for the district budgets. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District Administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of 12 classrooms and the reconstruction of the existing school block in the village of Chernica in the district of Lviv. Group of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya and others) to the head of the Special Environmental Prosecutor’s Office for active response to the illegal construction of the coastal resort area of Primorsk Zaporezki. Olesia Long to the head of the Kyrovograd Regional Public Administration, Lightwater City Head, Director General of the Society's Joint Undertaking with limited responsibility for the resolution of the heating situation in the city of Svetłovodsky Kirovograd. July of the Lighthouse to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt of KP "AKWA" to NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine". Alexia Ustenko to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine, CEO of the Association of Stockpiling, head of the board of shareholders of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the implementation of the 20/20 Program. The Gennady of Watsaka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine on the need to ensure the interaction of state registers to facilitate the completion of the declaration of property of a person authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government when filed. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the organization of cameras for automatic photo and video fixation of traffic violations. Roman Lozinski to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the promotion of the dismantling of anti - Ukrainian monuments. Romana Lozinski to the head of the National Commission of State Language Standards on Certain Issues of the National Commission’s Activities from the National Language Standards. Roman Lozinski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the continuation of the railway connection to the New York City Village. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District Government Administration for the inclusion of a project for the construction of a modern stadium in the town of Vidinka Černovetsek Region, before the list of those that can be built in 2022 under the Grand Building Program. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities in terms of reducing the cost of natural gas for the population and economic entities. Maksim Zariski to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of information for the inclusion of objects located in 202 constituencies (formerly Kitzmansk, Viznicky, Putilski and Stryżinetski oblasts of the Chernivecki region) in the "Poetna voda Ukraine" programme for 2022. Maksim Zariski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian State Water Agency, temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service, to develop a comprehensive programme to protect the population and territories from floods. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the roads of the Žitomir region that pass in the territory of the Bilokorovické OTH. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Director-General of the Society with a limited responsibility of Jean Ap to compensate for the cost of treatment and rehabilitation of Ukrainian tourists affected by the Tanzanian traffic accident. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to develop a government programme to create jobs for young people living in rural and mountainous areas. Sergey Vlasenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on providing information on detainees and injured persons during the clashes that took place during the protest of natural persons entrepreneurs under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 25, 22, the course of criminal investigation. Bogdan Torochti to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of August 12, 20, No.1010 "To transfer public property objects to the administration of the State Property Fund". Boris Prijdjka to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to review the pension provision of the disaster-restrictors of the Chernobyl AES. Sophia Fedina to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, for the legal evaluation of the activities of employees of the National Police of Ukraine during a rally at the Pecher District Court of Kiev on January 19, 22. And the last MP's request from Nestor Sufrich to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for information on the possible introduction of the "U.S." channel to the sanctions list. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all your parliamentary requests to executive authorities, heads of other government bodies and local self-government bodies, as well as to managers of enterprises, institutions and organizations in the country, irrespective of subordination and forms of ownership.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-28-m0.u109	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Thank you very much. Dear National Deputies! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the next seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call will begin its work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, listen, please. I know what I'm saying. The seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin on Tuesday, February 1, 2022, at 10 a.m. Today we have concluded the last plenary session of the sixth session. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I declare closed the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Heroic glory! I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, colleagues.
