ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare the national deputies for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold them both until the end of the registration. Are you ready to register? Then I'd like you to register. [[10:06:16]] There are 207 national deputies registered in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague of the People's Deputy Hanna Veyacheslavina Bondar of the "Serve of the People" faction. Let us welcome her, wish her strength and good health! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please, Daniel's Vitaly Bogdanovich, Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all the national MPs who are now in their jobs, who have not left Ukraine, who continue to work despite all circumstances. What I'm trying to say is that now you and I have a moment of truth. You're all familiar with public information. We're also familiar with classified information. You know that diplomatic negotiations have stopped for this moment. You know that not only embassies have been removed from Ukraine, but also instructors who have worked in our army. You know very well that today, thank God, there are no Minsk agreements anymore and that the Russian Federation has chosen a different course of military aggression. You are very well aware that the recognition of LNR and DNR took place, not in the borders of the line of delimitation, but in the borders of Lugansk and Donetsk. This means that everything that's happened lately means a few important things. First. Ukraine is in a state of war with the Russian Federation. And we must act as prescribed in the law. We need to act in a pup, because if we don't act, we're living without a protocol. The second thing is to know. In this situation, when it's time to understand who we are, where we are, and what resources we have, we now clearly understand that we are left with our army. You understand that. And it depends on how strong the army is, whether it holds or holds Ukraine. Or an army, or a miracle that can save the situation now. And so I don't want to talk about unity, I want to say that now all of our efforts must be focused on this point: the army. And today I propose to make some important decisions. The first is, of course, the financing of the army, no changes to the budget. Yesterday, a bill was signed by all faction leaders on open military expenditures, treasury bills, and defence expenses. The government has to determine what to do. We've signed all the faction leaders, we're voting today. The other one. "Big Building" is a beautiful program in peacetime. Right now we need to focus on the military-industrial complex, the VPC, and it needs to be instead of Big Construction, the Great Army. And if we don't figure it out now, we're gonna run out of weapons and we're gonna run out of supplies. It's gonna be okay, we're gonna win. But we need to do what is right. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Thank you. Please, Zari Maxim Valentinovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u4	Request to pass it on to Kisilev Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u5	Please, Dmitry Davidovich Kisilevski, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dmitry Kisilevski, Dnipro, "Serial of the People" faction. To strengthen the army, we need something else to win the war. I'm convinced that in order to win and strengthen the army, we need to build a powerful economy. And right now, it's a great opportunity to raise to our partners the issues of economic cooperation that meet this goal. I propose a few directions for such an economic dialogue. The first is debt. We have to start negotiations on the reformation of our debts. It's not about cheating, it's about releasing these funds to reinvest in the Ukrainian economy. We could potentially get up to $40 billion in investment. The second is markets for Ukrainian goods. None of our Western partners have demonstrated their willingness to remove or reduce duties against Ukrainian goods. For example, the United States has already freed all countries except China, Russia and Ukraine from metal duties. And how do you understand that, colleagues? Similarly, the European Union. We need to start substantive negotiations with our partners, arguing them with our exclusive circumstances, not, excuse me, just to go there and get a list of assignments, as it was before. Likewise, I think that Russia's aggression is a reason to start looking at our tariff terms in the World Trade Organization. Procedures allow that, and when, if not now, raise that question. The third proposal is to review our state aid capabilities. Ukraine once assumed a pioneer Euro-Integration Commitment to limit the ability of its own state to support its own economy. Now it's hurting us. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the possibilities of state funding for the economy are expanded, and the existing restrictions on state aid should be suspended until Ukraine joins the European Union. I think that's what's going to be fair. Colleagues who have studied the history of Germany know that there is a Marshall plan and a Morgentau plan. So the "Morgentau plan" that the allies imposed on Germany after the defeat of the war was a complete deindustrialization of Germany. But then the Allies quickly realized that the poor poor country in Europe would become the center of instability. And let's face it, this is what our Western partners are doing right now in terms of the Ukrainian economy, unfortunately, we have to admit it. Then he was replaced by Marshall's plan, Germany's industrialization plan, and it was he who allowed Germany to be built that we all know now. So if our partners want to reduce the risk of a great war, they have to pay attention, including the industrial development of Ukraine, including the military-industrial complex. And Germany, given the experience it has gained itself, could become the leader of this process if they no longer want to sell us arms. I suggest the government start with them about this dialogue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, "To the future," Gus Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u8	Glory to Ukraine! Dear Ukrainians, I'd like to address you. Before the full-scale possible invasion of our eternal enemy, many of you, hundreds of thousands, ask today what I can do and how I can help defend our country. I personally recommend that everyone study today the issue of entering the ranks of the territorial defense. The terbatelion is created in every area of our area. What Is Territorial Defense? You can work where you work today, but you're signing a contract, you're substituting for reserve service, you're holding up weapons, and as the President announced yesterday, full-scale training begins. When the terror is mobilized, you come to your mobilisation point, you get weapons, and you're ready to be in your city, village, area to ensure order and security, critical infrastructure: bridges, farms, heat utility, water canals so on. This is a real chance for a civilian, who is a patriot, to join the defense of his country. That's the first one. So, my friends, I'd like you to join the terror defense. The other one. I want to address President Zelensky and Servant of the People. Today we will consider the Law on the Simplification of the Use of Firearms for Ukrainians. The time has come to stop being afraid of your people. There are two bills: one layman, built in fear of his people; and another that will help us fight the invader. I'm asking you to support the second bill, alternative. We need to allow the Ukrainians, under simplified procedures, to form weapons of war today. This will help to combat the enemy in a variety of ways — guerrillas, marauders, and so forth. Once again, for 30 years the authorities in this country are afraid of their citizens. Instead, 2 million illegal weapons are on hand today. So I ask Mr. Zelensky, I ask the "Serve of the People" to support today's alternative bill and not to be afraid of the possible aggression of the age-old invader, the Russian Federation, to give the Ukrainians the opportunity to protect their home, their family and their state. Let's get ready for defense! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u9	Heroim Slava! Thank you. Please, Chernyavsky Stepan Mikolaiovich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u10	Chief, please give Tarasenko Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u11	Taras Tarasenko, please, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u12	Taras Tarasenko, Servant of the People. I'm currently working with the Human Rights Committee and the depopulation of Donbas and the Crimea. In the last days, the Russian Federation has been trying to bring lasting peace to our territory through mortar shelling of critical infrastructure. People in Donetsk and Lugansk are now without light, without water, without heat. These are the realities of war. And yesterday, at a meeting of the committee, we supported an appeal to the President of Ukraine regarding the introduction of military status within the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. The state of war is not about war, it's about protecting and protecting civilians. We have to think about how to protect our citizens, because we know that our army will protect us. And now for peace. For eight years, Ukraine has been at war. Soldiers return to peaceful life after terrible battles, after a terrible time when bullets fly over them, and they need help. During the eight years of the war, Ukraine did not create a proper working system of rehabilitation centers. On the basis of the Human Rights Committee, a working group has been formed to work on legislation and standards for the proper assistance of our military. Taking into account that in times of peace, people who have suffered war crimes should receive adequate assistance both psychologically and psychologically, it will strengthen our country, create conditions under which our military will be confident that when they return home, they will receive not only money and security but also support. For many years, ATO soldiers helped each other by creating various social projects. At the moment, I believe that the task of the State is to ensure the creation of politics, the rehabilitation of our military, who have suffered from armed aggression. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Litwinov Alexander Mikolaiovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u14	Please pass the word "Shuljak Oleni Alexiyevni."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u15	Olena's shirt, Servant of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u16	Honorable fellow national MPs, honourable chairman! In today’s situation, the security of the state and of all citizens is one of the main tasks for us. We are all confident of our Armed Forces, which have the necessary experience, strength and resources to defend the country. But our army needs reliable back-up support in the form of territorial defense. And even though it hasn't been two months since it was created, territorial defence units have been deployed in all regions, with a special warehouse of more than 70 percent and have already begun active training and training. We thank every citizen who has made the decision to join the ranks of the territorial defense. And this number of people throughout Ukraine makes the enemy question the purpose of the invasion. With such power, Ukraine will no longer be an easy prey for the aggressor. As you already know, our political power, "The Servant of the People" has initiated all over Ukraine holding extraordinary sessions to address issues that are accelerating the development of territorial defence. We've analyzed the situation on the ground, and we've worked on all the issues, and this process is going on in full cooperation between the state and the citizens. Despite the different party colors, we've achieved amazing results. Today, more than 450 communities throughout Ukraine have decided to allocate additional funds for the terrorist attack to a total of over 387 million dollars. This figure is increasing in real-time mode and has increased by more than 130 million in just the last week. These funds allow you to solve issues related to the material and technical base of the terror, the proper equipment of the premises, and the creation of the necessary conditions for the deployment of units in all regions. I believe that the local councils have shown the members of the Supreme Council a good example of cooperation when the various factions that have come behind the various flags begin to forget the differences and to unite in matters related to the security of our country. And in the near future, together with all the factions, we're going to make changes to the budget that will allocate more than 36 billion dollars to our country's defense. As promised, more than 20 billion dollars will go to military money, more than 6 billion dollars to buy weapons, almost 4 billion dollars to be spent on individual defenses and over 1.2 billion dollars to be used for terrorist defense. And I'm sure here, in the Supreme Council, we're going to be side by side, and we're going to show an example of unity for all of our citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u17	Heroic glory! Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u19	Alexei Hotcharenko, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u20	Alexei Horcharenko, Ukraine Friends, today we are faced with the challenge of our nation's existence. In fact, Putin said, "I don't recognize the fact that your state, your nation, doesn't exist, and I will destroy you." Yesterday we saw another ultimatum from a crazy Kremlin dictator: no NATO, admit Crimea and demilitarization, so hand over your weapons, well, then I'll do anything with you. We know very well from history, this choice between shame and war. And we know that when you choose shame, you choose war, but even worse. So we'll never give in to these ultimatums, we'll never do that. We will protect our nation, and we will protect it. Today I call on the budget committee to support 6542, and in general to fund our Armed Forces, let's unite and together at last today we will allocate the first additional funding, and then every day we will add, add, add to our Armed Forces. Today, people all over Ukraine are going out on the street, and on Saturday, we're going to go to Kramatorsky to show that Donbas is Ukraine, and no DNR/LNR, and no Russian peace, and we will definitely do it. Friends, today is February 23rd, and in Russia they're going to talk about Fatherland's Day, and they're going to tell their soldiers that are going to fight, let's take "Russian peace." I want to speak to the Russian soldiers. There's nothing waiting for you here! You don't have Kramatorsky, Mariupola, Harkov, Odessa, Kiev with flowers in your hands. We're waiting for you with javelins and guns in our hands. And if you come in here, you'll never get out of here again, we promise. Welcome to hell! That's what we can tell you, and you'll die here, you'll die like a lousy dog if you enter our country. And your generals, who throw you into this meatball, will then be the first to flee. So drop your weapons now, go home to your children, to your wives, you have nothing to do here. It is not your land and it will never be! We will surely conquer whatever we say and who does not tell you. And victory will follow us. Ukraine will be free, and you will remain here forever in this land. This is your future if you try to do it. Remember this and stop now until you are too late. Comrades, victory will follow us! Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u21	Thank you. Heroic glory! Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, "Serve of the People". Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk, please "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u22	Dear friends, now is not the time for political slogans, and the problems we face need to be solved. Remember, Gold Meir, the Chinese woman, said that we had no nuclear weapons, but if we use them. So before we start talking about nuclear weapons, let's do other, no less important nuclear matters, otherwise the Russian Federation will unload our same radioactive waste that it still keeps under international security treaties right below our borders. It's about building an intermediate repository of spent nuclear fuel that we were actually supposed to build and accept our radioactive wastes from Russia. Otherwise, all of this in the light of recent events can end in tears both for our image and for the safety of our citizens. More than 1.8 billion dollars have been allocated from the budget to construct an intermediate storage facility, with a total cost of 4 billion dollars. It's only been the last three years of them, all of these costs have been reimbursed. You know why? Because the State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone can't conduct a tender. For a four-billion-dollar tender, we have so many private companies willing to beat each other up when the results are announced. In this case, what we have is that the know-how from the energy sector knock each other out and don't let Ukraine solve the problem of storing highly radioactive waste. This is criminal negligence, and we've already paid millions of fines to the Russian Federation. And we'll pay more if we don't build a temporary storage facility for highly radioactive waste by December 23. This shelter has become an apple of disunity between several firms that knock each other out on tenders, and this is damaging to our state. If you and I are going to adopt a bill to simplify the conduct of tenders in particularly sensitive areas, let's include simplifying the conduct of a tender for the construction of a temporary nuclear fuel shelter. Then we can build it, we won't pay the fines of the Russian Federation, and we won't wait for Russia to put our wastes near our borders, and we won't know where to take them. The simplified tender will solve this problem, keep our image before the international partners in the agreements we signed, and it will not allow the Russian Federation to make with us another problem that we have to solve with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, "The Opposition Platform for Life", by Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u24	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! In June 1990, a month and a half before the declaration of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, the prime minister of Britain, Margaret Thatcher, speaking from this rostrum in this session hall, stressed that independence is a high responsibility. I quote that she said, "You have to learn to take responsibility for your decisions. That's what you haven't had in so long." "Government is always deep knowledge, hard work and high responsibility," wrote Ukrainian historian, philosopher, socio-political actor Viacheslav Lipinski. The question arises: Is there a high responsibility in the Ukrainian authorities? The question is complex, very difficult. Someone promises to bring Donbas back in two weeks, but he still doesn't keep his promise. Acting President of Ukraine Vladimir Aleksandrovich, going to the polls, in chapter four of his electoral program, promises: "We must choose peace for Ukraine. Ukraine's move to NATO and other security issues is to be confirmed in an all-U.S. referendum." And as President of Ukraine, in his inaugural speech, Vladimir Alexanderovich said, "I can assure you, so that our heroes don't die anymore, I'm ready for everything, and I'm certainly not afraid to make complicated decisions, I'm willing to lose my popularity, my ratings, if necessary, I'm willing to lose my post, just to make peace without losing our territories." Unfortunately, however, there was not enough political responsibility to implement the Minsk Accords, to bring Donbas back to Ukraine, and Ukraine to Donbas. Possibilities are not lost yet, there is a possibility. And one way is diplomacy. Ukraine must show, by its humanitarian policy, its pragmatism that it is Ukraine, Donetsk is Ukraine, Lugansk is Ukraine. Ukraine is split today. To stop the rift, we propose, our political power, to start implementing the National Success Platform programme proposed by the leader of our political power, Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk, and to consider in this sessionary room the Bill 6553 on Ukraine's non-blocking, neutral status. By making such a decision, we will return to the source of our statehood.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Saucuk Oksana Vasilovna, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u26	Oksana Savchuk, Ivano-Frankish, Freedom. I want to tell everyone here today who has not yet realized that Ukraine today is more than ever the only state, whole, unitary, to protect its borders. We'll work closely with NATO, we'll take care of our cybersecurity, and we'll do everything we can to get the law on collaboration, about collaborators to be adopted, and to clean up this Parliament, the world of collaborators who sit under those columns, and the fifth column of Moscow. But we also have to ask the President again today that we have to break up diplomatic relations with Russia. Yesterday, I registered two decrees: 7,093 with a call to the President to break diplomatic relations with Russia, and 7,095 with a view to establishing a state of war in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, to close the transport link with the Russian Federation and Belarus. This will first allow us to call things names that are. Today, Russia, attacking Ukraine and recognizing the occupied territories, says that it does not recognize or acknowledge us. It is because, more than ever, we need to unite in order to allocate additional funds from the state budget for the financing of the army. Today, I want to thank all those who have joined the territorial defense and continue to do so. I want to thank all those people who are going to school today regardless of their age, to the shooting ranges, to learn to shoot, to learn to help, to give first aid, to show once again that we are a strong nation, we are a worthy society that is ready to resist the enemy. Yeah, we don't have fear, but we have strength -- power from each other. We need to understand today, we have many challenges, including energy. And we, as a parliament that will work this week and the next week without interruption, have to respond to these energy challenges that we face. It's also very crucial today -- it's volunteering. Believe me, every soldier standing on the front has to understand that there, in places, his family is protected by our attention. For those who do not have the ability to take arms or learn, we must become volunteers and volunteers. Let our military feel that their families are under our care. We believe in the Armed Forces. Remember, we are a strong nation. We have won and won no matter what enemy we may be. So let us unite, let us stick together, let us help one another. Our Armed Forces are the best, and we will win together!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, road trip, Dmitri. The Black Sea Artem. Add a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u28	Good morning, speaker, foreman! Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Ukraine! I wanted to address you from this rostrum, as always, with the hope that I would be heard as any deputy, he wanted to be heard and carried out by the request or thought of the people who chose him. The other day, I held a meeting in the Mikolai district of the local communities. He spoke to military officials, spoke to representatives of the local communities, and the local authorities. And we're sure that we're ready now to, as it were, take the punch, if, don't give a god, he will. For now, I want to say that the President is with us. The national deputies of Ukraine, whose honest name is "national", here in Parliament, are worthy to defend the interests of their people and to unite without all flags, to remove all colors and slogans for the sake of one: to defend the real independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine. And most of all, what I wanted to say and call on all the governors, all the district government administrations and councils to unite, so that they wouldn't just discuss the problems that are in the territorial district communities, but went to places and checked the availability of everything that our military personnel need. And I'd like to go to big business, especially as an agrarian committee, to big farms. You work on the ground. And as our leader, patriot Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelenski said: This is not charity, this is your contribution, this is your duty, to ensure the security of your area, your land, and those citizens who have given you the right to rent this land for use. And I would like to personally thank the leadership of NAEC "Energoat" Kotin Petr Borisovich, who has already joined the territorial community of the Wozniessen union of the region; Igor Mikhajlovich Polovich, head of the nuclear power plant in South Ukraine. I'd like to say one thing: I'm a representative of the Mikolai district, with me colleagues of the Herson region, representatives of Donetsky, Luhansk, we're the shield now standing. So I want to say, dear friends, one thing: we don't really see the motive for moving forward right now, but I urge that there's not going to be a step back either. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u29	Heroic glory! Please, time for the speech is over. There's a few announcements yet. Let's do the announcement first, then. Moreover, one of the announcements has to do with you. Please, in accordance with article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association Ukraine without oligarchs. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexi Vasilovich, was elected head of this association. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Day order: decolonization". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, was elected head of this association. I'm reporting on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association called Euro-Atlantic Ukraine. As the head of this association of Ukraine’s elected national deputy, Buymeister Ludmila Anatoliyevna, the national deputies of Ukraine have been elected as deputy heads: Gončarenko Aleksija Alexiyyovich and Saucuk Oksana Vasilovna. Please, the Prime Minister of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u30	Thank you, sir. Dear colleagues, yesterday when we discussed addressing our international partners. All the factions gathered in one thing that Putin would not stop at the recognition of L/DNR and would move on. We hear that the recognized borders of the so-called "L/DNR" today lie in the sovereign territory of Ukraine. So I urge you, Sir, and all your colleagues to put to the vote immediately draft Decree No. 7089 on the request of our international partners for a peacekeeping mission to Ukraine. Until we ask for it, no one will. Colleagues, please do not boycott this decision, let us turn to our partners and help them to help us. And I totally disagree with my colleagues who say it's not real right now. Right now, the moment the whole world is united around Ukraine, and right now this is our chance, because if we don't do it now, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u31	Please. Do you want to put inclusion in the agenda or what? Is this a decree or a bill? The show? And the committee's on it? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a cross-examination. We're on our way. The committee hasn't considered it. I've been informed. Please, committee, if you please. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's the Head that can give it. Now he'll be back from important things too. Are you out of procedure? Who, Irina Volodymyr? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, we really want to thank today all the people's deputies who make their initiatives, their proposals, they register this as the Supreme Council's statements. At the same time, dear colleagues, it is very important that this work be complex. Today, in the order of the day’s Supreme Council, there is a statement in connection with the armed aggression of the Russian Federation on the second issue. For example, this statement does not have any recommendations and suggestions on how our diplomacy is supposed to operate today most proactively. I have now and as co-chairs of the European Solidarity faction, and a representative of the Foreign Affairs Profile Committee, a concrete proposal: let's take all the statements and decisions that are registered in the Supreme Council, work together to really include a position on peacekeepers, and consult in the Budapest Memorandum and accept it. Because when we have a cacophony like that, it doesn't really add up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u33	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Please take a break with the replacement for the performance, "Trust" and "Fatherland." Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u34	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, Lugansk and Donetsk region have been shot in the last three days. "Syra" zone is on fire today, not just burning houses. People sitting in bomb shelters are waiting for concrete action. Today, Luhanska TEZ is not the only one who has been shot in Happiness. And that's a beautiful name, happiness, but people have been living in misery for eight years. People are left, and children are in charge, today without water, no food, no light, no heat. People are waiting for real action today, not just a chat: everything will be fine, everything will be fine. People are expecting humanitarian aid from us. People are waiting for decisive action from Kabmin to transport people from the gray zone. How many times have you been able to talk? What are we fighting for: for territory or for human hearts and souls, for people who hide under tables for eight years on their birthdays from the explosion of a ball? We urgently need to host large cities in the interior of the country today for people who want to leave the area. We demand an immediate meeting of the NPB, the Kabmin to help the humanitarian Donbas, Lugansk and Donetskina, first of all, once again, the Syrian zone: it is Happiness, Gold, Mountain, Station Lugansk. To what extent will people feel secondary? Today, the enemy tells us that no one needs Donbas, and the Ukrainian government is swallowing it today. Why is it that there is no help today for children and schools, children’s gardens, who have not yet been taken out under fire? Those L/DNR areas are being exported, and we don't even understand what borders the enemy requires of us. We don't understand and they won't tell us what's going on there today. Dear colleagues, I call for help. In 2014, volunteers carried economic burdens, helped the Ukrainian army with armored vests, Kevlar helmets, and food. And I also appeal to each of you today to help Donbas, the peaceful people who need it today. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u35	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u36	Reverend Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I certainly share the concerns of our colleagues. But I've studied and studied in detail our order of day, and frankly, it's very surprising, for example, to find such bills in order of the day to cancel VAT for transplantologists, or, for example, another bill that relates to the electronic archive. Well, are these up - to - date issues that really need to spend valuable time looking at these points? That's the first one. The other one. When we talk to you about a powerful economy and other things, we have to be quite hard with you to respond to that budget deficit of 188 billion dollars or 571 billion dollars. These are extremely serious things, and whatever expenses you're planning this year, they're not going to fit into your budget policy in any way. And the last moment is tariffs. Of course, 81.4 billion dollars in debt is a judgment of today's government in such tariff policy. This too should be viewed, not by electronic archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u37	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, for your concern. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We are in the agenda of Decree No. 7064: a draft Ordinance on Approval of Proposals for the Use of Personal Special Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (Sanctions). We need a few votes, so we need to get ready for the vote. Please take your seats, there will be a series now, I hope, of a successful vote. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the 7064 Registration Order on the approval of proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures. Please vote. [[10:49:02]] For 308. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for an ad hoc review and decision at this plenary session on the Registration Order No. 7064 on the approval of proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures. Please vote. [[10:49:37]] For 314 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[10:50:03]] For 278 Decision taken. A reporter from the authors of Ukraine, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! We'll be there tonight. First of all, I want to start my speech by thanking the entire world of the United States, Japan, Europe, Britain for the fact that yesterday quickly, within almost 24 hours of the recognition of the "L/DNR" by the Russian Federation as an independent, most countries of the world have joined and imposed sanctions on both the personal sanctions and sanctions on the legal persons of the Russian Federation, thereby giving them an economic and financial blow. But now it's our turn, because the Ukrainian Parliament must first respond to the aggression that is now taking place on the side of the Russian Federation. The Ukrainian Parliament should first initiate all sanctions against individuals who have dared to effectively annex part of our territory by declaring themselves independent "L/DNR". And all those people who raised their hands in the State Duma Hall, in the Federation Council, in the Security Council of the Russian Federation for annexing the territory of Ukraine should be punished in the form of sanctions. And especially those who still have ties with Ukraine are still earning money in Ukraine or have made money before having legal persons here. So the proposal and Decree 7064, where I am co-author, speaks of imposing sanctions on all those who dared to vote and reach for the sovereignty and integrity of Ukrainian territory. There are all the deputies of the State Duma who did it by raising their hands and offering Putina to do it, all the members of the Security Council and all the members of the Federation Council who voted for it. Dear colleagues, please support this decision and take the next step to support our other decisions and to join in signing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u39	The report invites the head of the State Security and Defence Subcommittee of the Venezuelan Feder.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u40	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council held its meeting on February 22, 2022, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft Decree by the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimenko Yulia Leonidivna and other national deputies on the proposals for approval of sanctions, the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) (registration No. 7064). The adoption of this decision will create preconditions for the adoption by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of decisions on the application of personal economic special sanctions and other restrictive measures to a number of individuals who pose a real threat to the territorial integrity of Ukraine’s State sovereignty. So these are the deputies of the State Duma of the Russian Federation who voted in favour of referring to the President of the Russian Federation, Mr. Putin, to the recognition of the subjectivity of the so-called "LNR/DNR". It should be noted here that yesterday the State Duma and the Council of the Federation approved a decision of recognition. But the National Security and Defence Council, on the basis of our appeal to you from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has the full right to extend this list and to complete it with those deputies of the State Duma and the Federation Council who voted yesterday in favour of a disgraceful decision that violates the territorial integrity of Ukraine and is an act of aggression. The committee unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept this decision and support it. And I would also like to appeal to the international community to join in imposing personal sanctions against those deputies who approve criminal decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u41	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. In the corner of Marianne Volodymyr, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u42	A request to convey the word to Zmerenecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u43	Gwarensky Alexi, Servant of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank our international partners for the massive blow that has taken place on Russia's elite, which is now organizing an attack on Ukraine. But in addition to sanctions, I would like to stress the importance of another tool that the West can use, and I've applied it repeatedly, it's an economic contribution to the country's development. Because the main guarantee of an independent secured Ukraine, a rich Ukraine, is a developed economy, it's a big market for Ukrainian products. In this regard, what can our Western partners do besides sanctions against our enemies? They can increase quotas for Ukrainian producers and access to foreign markets, just as Turkey did by freeing Ukrainian goods from duty to 0 per cent for 90 per cent of goods. I would like to have Britain and the United States and other countries of Europe, Germany, and so on. I would like Ukraine, just like the members of the European Union, to have huge development programs, not credits, yes, low rates, which we are very grateful for, but industrial park development programs, technology parks, infrastructure, railway stations, industrial rehabilitation. I would like to see that, just as in Georgia, Ukraine spends money on the development of the government system, because in Georgia, I remind you, more than 10 percent of the GDP that international donors have given to the reforms. It wasn't loans, it was just money to develop infrastructure, technology programs to increase wages. Today the whole world has to show Russia that Ukraine will develop, that Russia will not succeed in intimidation, by hybrid war provoke the flow of investment, by reducing the development of GDP. As soon as Ukraine shows economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Cuba. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" urges all of us to act quickly, adequately and quickly when the country faces real security threats. A week ago, "European Solidarity" and "The Voice" approached this session room with what we have to appeal to the Security Council for immediate sanctions against criminals, against every deputy of the State Duma who voted in favour of the membership of Ukraine. And it's actually wrong when the world has already imposed such sanctions when the European Union, the United States of America announce it, and we're finally born with you and we're only addressing the Security and Defence Council. I urge you to act quickly again, because we have a country looking at us today, and this is our front with you. Why are sanctions against each State Duma member important? Because these people must be unmoved into the civilized world. Let them sit on their moors until they learn to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. The other one. Obviously, sanctions must be economic in nature and visa. And here we have to appeal to all the civilized countries of the world. Third. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly will begin tomorrow. We call on colleagues who work at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to immediately call for extraordinary meetings and appeal to these honourable assemblies, as well as to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, that the Russian delegation should be punished. They have to be excluded from civilized delegations, they have to be granted visa restrictions so that neither they nor their families can ever cross the borders of the civilized world to restore the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. And of course we have to appeal to our partners, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Victor Vasilovich Bondar. Sergey Ruddick, "To the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u48	I looked long and hard at their faces, the faces of the deputies of the Russian State and the members of the Federation Council, who voted for blood, for the suffering of Ukrainian Donbassy. Valentina Tereshkova is the first cosmonaut woman to be 80 years old, and to this day a bunch of streets of our country are called her name. Karpov Anatoly is an international grandmaster, champion of the world, a legend. The family is a three - time Olympic champion. These people are legends. But since the blood vote on the Ukrainian Donbassy, they're ordinary international criminals with blood on their hands, and we should always remember that. There's people with Ukrainian names, and there's Juba. Not the man who died yesterday, the hero of Ukraine, but their beak. There's a man named Yashchenko, there's a Matthewnko who was born in Hmelnschkin, just like my mother, in Shepetovka. They're making fun of us now and they think we have your sanctions, we've got our houses, we've got our cities, we've got medals, we've been sneezing at you. The same was true of Rosenberg, Catellus, Goering, Hitler, and their ashes were scattered over the Rhine. We'll do our best not to stop at the sanctions so that every Ukrainian knows every bastard who voted in favour of solving the war on Donbassa. And that's just going to be the beginning. We're going to win because we have Ukrainian weapons because we have Ukrainian weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u49	Thank you, Sergey Jaroslavovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, regarding the personal list of fellow MPs, I think it's a technical question, it's going to be solved. Plus, three-quarters of our colleagues are also on the sanctions lists there. But why did I leave, and why is this so important? Because it's about the economic sanctions that will be applied in the near future, the colleagues talked about it from both the ruling majority and the other colleagues, and we started talking about it yesterday. And I'm arguing that we don't have half the scale that we had from the 14th to the 19th year when some of us lost everything and others didn't lose anything and increase. So from this point of view, I've prepared a little research for you. I wanted to point out that when we're going to introduce some restrictive measures with you, and the Minneconomy also says that we need to understand that 9.5 billion trades with the Russian Federation are primarily related to critical imports. For example, coal is 62 percent that comes in here, oil. Just like Belarus, four wholes. I'm sorry, Billorus -- $6.3 billion in circulation, of which 4.8 billion is imports. I see the moods for Belarus, so from this point of view we have: (a) you have either to provide and diversify these supplies; or (b) not to overturn the economic potential, the energy potential of the country, because it's very important. And one more moment. You should always remember that whatever sanctions are, of course, countermeasures, embargoes and other restrictive measures. So from this point of view, when we're going economically with you, I insist that we don't have a cinematographer special so that we don't have filmmakers working there without VAT, without moments, without anything else, but that we take into account national economic interests in such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u51	Thank you. A kiss, "Trust." Please, Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u52	War, occupation, aggressor. At last we call things our names. And our enemy is not a mythical aggressor, our enemy is a Kremlin regime that has its faces and its names. Our enemy is a Kremlin regime that sounds like a world that wants to destroy Ukrainian statehood. And his rashes also publicly support it. As a result, the Ukrainian Parliament calls for personal sanctions on all Russian deputies, officials, oligarchs who support the Kremlin’s ideas and their decisions to destroy Ukrainian statehood. Let the world know their names and their shameful deeds. We support this decision. We urge everyone to vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u53	Voice, Klimenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, Ukrainians! The Kremlin is not afraid of our blood. So he continues to attack Ukraine and will continue to attack Ukraine. But the Kremlin fears for its money, for its villas in Nice, for its children who are in London and live in London, and for much more than that, they have been able to steal from their own people in the last 20 years. So, colleagues, let's not stop at the personal sanctions of the State Department and the Federation Council, but let's proceed with the sanctioning of all the state banks of Russia. Our appeal is also 7070 – the Order – to all parliaments of the world to impose similar sanctions. And let's move on, Ukraine too has to be in the sanctions for Russia to feel it in its pocket. It's the only thing they're afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u55	Please, everyone who wants to speak up? Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats in the hall. We're going to vote now. I would like to vote on the draft Decree of Registration No. 7064 on the approval of proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures. Please vote. [[11:07:41]] For 322 Decision taken. The factions, please. Thank you. As for the next Order, registration number 7099. I was approached by representatives of the committee now to remove it from consideration and during the break to rework, conduct a committee and develop a text so that it could be more. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Is there no objection? You don't have to vote, okay. But today, vote in the second half. To that end, the committee is meeting for a recess to vote today. Okay, colleagues, then let's move on. We have a bill with registration number 5708, 5708-1: draft Civil Weapons Act. I'd like to take this matter up with a brief procedure, please. [[11:08:50]] For 267 Decision taken. For the report on Bill 5708 (the main one), the Ukrainian national deputy Igor Pavlovich Fries, "Serve of the People", is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u56	Congratulations, fellows! I hope you know it's time. I've been on this stand once with a bill on the circulation of civilian weapons. Sadly, he was not supported by the Supreme Council. But in the state of our state today, and in the state we are with you today, I am sure that the time is right. What difference does it make? We gathered what was best in previous drafts by authors: comments from the Ministry of Justice, comments from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, comments from the Ministry of Health and the Supreme Council legal apparatus, and developed a new bill that regulates the circulation of civilian firearms for Ukrainian citizens who live permanently in Ukraine. This bill identifies subjects, types of weapons, types of ammunition for such weapons, variants of weapons, defines the issue of a single register of weapons and its conduct by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This bill establishes that the subject of regulation is not short-lived firearms, and thus it is different from an alternative bill. Today we need to adopt this bill, which is supported by the Committee on Law Enforcement. We need to take the first step towards the second reading of the bill, taking the best possible alternative, we need to give the country a chance to protect themselves, their property and their loved ones. I ask you to support this bill as much as we can. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u57	Thank you. According to Bill 5708-1 (alternative) National Deputy Sharaskin Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u58	Oh, my God, health, fellow MPs. For God's sake, health to Ukrainians in Ukraine and not in Ukraine, and to all those who are watching us today with the sudden return to the Civil Circumstances Act. I would like to draw your attention to two draft laws and their names: one on the circulation of civilian weapons and the other on the right to self-defence and the circulation of civilian weapons. It's definitely different things. We are all accustomed to the fact that citizens have responsibilities. Where's our right? Stop dividing citizens into categories. That's what happened. It's totalitarian survival. There are conclusions from constitutionalists that directly indicate that we should not divide citizens into categories, narrow down constitutional law. And also, please, who has doubts about which to vote, I want to tell you that the main authors also know that it's based on what it is, and called an alternative, with a defission, it's more complete. If you vote on the basis, it's only "yes" with a defission one, for the Law on the Right to Self-Protection and the Circumvention of Civil Weapons. This is the only way we can at least have the basis for further work on this bill. So the first one is yellow, the alternate one is green, and we're going to work it out for the second reading all together. And seven more seconds. You all know what the situation is, so do not neglect the right to self-defense. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u59	Please sign up for the performance: two for, two for the opposite. Oh, excuse me, from the Danus Committee, please, deputy head.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, the Committee on the Protection of the Law, on December 8, 2021, discussed at its meeting a draft law on the right to civilian firearms. The project defines the relevant terms and concepts of the category A, B, C, D, E depending on their technical characteristics; the types of weapons prohibited for civilian circulation; the conditions under which natural and legal persons have the right to acquire arms in civilian circulation and ammunition. The bill also provides: the creation and introduction of a single national register of civilian firearms with the holding of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine; the issuance of the first certificate of the owner of the weapon for a period of 3 years and each subsequent extension for 5 years at the place of registration of the person or permanent residence (stay) in the designated Cabinet of Ministers of the Order; the inheritance of civilian firearms and ammunition; the storage of civilian firearms and weapons of war; the introduction of civil firearms insurance for natural persons who are entrepreneurs and legal persons; Procedure for the use of civilian firearms for protection (art. 39); the expansion of commercial activities that are subject to licensing, such as track activities, shootings, studies in the material part of weapons, rules of conduct, and so forth. In fact, the first, and the main, bill is supported with comments by the Ministry of Law, the Supreme Council Institute of Law, the University of Lviv, the National Academy of Law, and many others. The project certainly contains some technical legal flaws that can be worked out in the second reading. The lecture committee is asking to accept 5808 in the first reading on the basis of 5808-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Then let's write it down, please write it down: two for, two for, two against. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, For the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u63	Please, Igor Goose, "To the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u64	Dear friends, thank you for your opportunity to speak. Again, I address all in attendance. We're on the verge of invading the Russian Federation today. Yet, there is fear of their own citizens that they may be armed, as is the case in the United States, in other civilized countries, with firearms, particularly guns, or not. And regardless of what the extreme situation is, in this room, fear: we won't, we don't know, we don't want, we don't want, we want what happens. Friends, this is the time for us to make a fundamental decision today. Period. Ukrainians have the right to arm themselves in order to protect their home, in order to protect their city or village, and in order to protect their country. So I ask the audience in this room to support an alternative bill. All it takes is the decision of the "Serial of the People" faction. Because we're scared that no bill will pass. Keep the alternative now, and there'll be 300 votes on the board. And in the second reading, we're going to accept it as soon as possible. And believe me, in today’s situation 80 or maybe 90 percent of Ukrainians support this decision. Because the Ukrainian must have the right to defend his family, his city, and his country. I call for an alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u65	Please, the Voice, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Kostenko Roman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u66	Good day, fellow countrymen, respectable people of Ukraine! Today we are considering a very important bill, and we remember how the last vote ended. I hope that today we will all make the right decision and vote in favour of one of the bills that will allow our citizens to own firearms freely. The Voice faction generally supports both laws on free possession of arms. I want to say that these are not primarily legislation on the legalization of weapons, like a lot of people talk about it, we have weapons and so legalized. It's about the legal circulation of weapons. And now we don't have the possibility, we don't have this bill, we're one country in Europe that doesn't have this bill. Therefore, we must correct this mistake. That's the first one. The other one. We must, I agree, give our citizens the right to possess weapons legally and defend ourselves because this can lead to very negative consequences in the future. We can also remember the 14th year when this right was not and everything could have been different. We can mention Crimean Tatars and our citizens in Crimea, who did not have weapons at the time, was the State’s policy in general not to give them weapons. And now we could have Crimea, and we could have the unoccupied areas of Donetsk and Luhansk. That's why the Voice faction supports the bill, and they both need to be worked out in terms of carrying and storing weapons at home at that time. But now, in the first reading, we have to vote and support this and give our citizens the opportunity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u67	Heroic glory! Thank you. Igor Sergiyyovich, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Sergio Ionushas.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u69	Please, Jonushas.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u70	I can get out of here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u71	Out of the way. Show me Jonah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that the Committee on Law Enforcement has reviewed its meeting and supported the basic bill itself. Although I would like to thank really Andri Andriyovich Sharaskin for the fact that there are many rules in the alternative bill that should be introduced in the form of rights and considered by the committee for second reading. So I personally supported both the basic bill and the alternative. Dear colleagues, my personal position is not as the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, but as a citizen of Ukraine and a national MP: we must have law. We don't have the law today. Therefore, the request to support a basic bill and an alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, "The Opposition Platform for Life", Germany, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u74	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Please pass the word to Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u75	Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u76	Dear national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Do we really not have a law on weapons? Things are obvious: he's gone. Is the issue really resolved with regard to short - bodied firearms? No, it's not solved. The offer was very simple: the normalization of the things currently in existence in Ukraine. At present, everything is regulated by instructions rather than by law, except for short - standing firearms. Short-range firearms are used by law enforcement agencies, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, well, no more. But they do. Should we give the right to use short-range firearms to Ukrainian citizens? Discussions are open here. Where more and less, no one can explain how this story will develop. We will not support either bill or another. The proposal was very simple: Please put in your instructions, and after that, in the case of discussion, questioning, and everything else, including law, we can regulate short-walled firearms. I want to point out very simple things that weapons aren't so scary when they're lying in a safe when they're lying under a pillow when they're wearing a holster. It's very scary when it's misapplied, used, and used for reasons and reasons for self-defense and all sorts of other things: to repel an attack, a group attack and all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, "Trust," Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u78	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear fellow MPs, I call first to you and to your position, to those who take a neutral stand, not to vote at all and not to make a decision. I think it's wrong, because we've been stalling, and today, of course, at the time of the decision. Both the one and the other bills, from my point of view, are absolutely geared towards processing, but they are necessary, because, once again, there is no clear legislation today that deals with the issue, starting with the order of storage, bearing, especially the absence of a single national register, is extremely important. So we call for a vote, I will personally vote for the basic bill, but we need to work on the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u79	Please, Vetatrovitch, one minute from European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u80	In the context of Russian armed aggression, possession of arms is not only about the ability to guarantee the right to self-defence, it's a way to make resistance truly universal. The Ukrainian Armed Forces are protecting the Ukrainian state, and we are opening up a territorial defense that will stop the enemy. But today is not enough. We need to protect the state and each Ukrainian can defend himself so that the words "the Ukrainians will resist" are not just a good call, but a warning to the enemy that everyone "does not like" can answer with a shot. We call upon all the national MPs, despite the decision of the committee that was adopted in relatively peaceful times, to support the very alternative project of deputy Sharaskin. By enacting this law, we give people a real opportunity to protect themselves and their families in war conditions, to oppose the mariners, the collaborators and the diversans, and, above all, to keep away from the enemy on every street, in every house, on every patch of Ukrainian land. Only then will resistance really be popular.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u81	Please, everyone who wants to speak up? Then we'll go to the vote. So I'm going to bet. From the procedure? From motive, I guess, right now, huh? Motives are Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u82	Jaroslav Jurchisin, Voice faction, anti-corruption committee. Unfortunately, we rarely take into account the recommendations of the anti-corruption committee, although the very logic of giving them is, in fact, the importance of sounding them. In line with the bill recommended by the profile committee, there are a number of substantive observations by both the Chief Executive and the Anti-Corruption Committee. In fact, there is no clear definition of the entities that will compensate the persons for the weapons removed, and there are other points. These are important aspects that give us the prospect of deciding whether to vote in favour of the recommended committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Mr. Jaroslav. I would like to remind you that in the full process of reviewing drafts, we have the opportunity to speak, not on the main committee, but on the other hand. This can therefore be taken into account when deciding whether to maintain a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, then I am voting in line with the committee’s conclusion to adopt a bill with registration number 5708 on the right to civil firearms (registration number 5708). Please vote. [[11:29:01]] For 274 Decision taken. The factions, please. Thank you. The deadline doesn't cut, does it? None. No, it's not. Okay. Let's not cut it. Okay. Then let's move on to the next question of the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Set it up? Let's try it. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for proposals and amendments and prepare for second reading for registration, bill for registration number 5708 on the right to civil firearms. Please vote. [[11:30:02]] For 276 Decision taken. We go to the following bill 5709, 5709-1: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Right to Civil Firearms. Please invite Igor Pavlovich Fries, Ukrainian national deputy for the interview. Bill 5709, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u84	Colleagues, I'm not going to be taking much of your time. This is an equally important bill to amend the Administrative and Criminal Codes, which is directly linked to the bill on the circulation of civilian weapons. The key question is, if we give people the right to have firearms registered, we have to guarantee them safety and self-defense. This law on the extension of the necessary defences defined by criminal law. We are making key changes to the 36th article of the Criminal Code, which speaks of the necessary defense by making it completely new. We have to ensure the right of citizens to self-defense. I ask him to support him as well as the previous bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u85	Stay, please. We have a full procedure, as we have not voted the abbreviated. I'm sorry. So now we have a question for the reporter and an answer. Three minutes, please. Sign up for a question if there is. Please, Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u86	Rustem Umerov, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u87	Dierov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! It has been more than 50 years since we have practiced the principled violence of the rule of law and human rights. But when the invader deliberately crosses borders and borders, each individual must protect himself, his family, his country with all the means available. This is a human right to self-defense. So I'm asking very much for our support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Igor Pavlovich, will you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u90	In principle, I think it was no longer a question of expressing a position. So I fully welcome my colleague’s stated position on the part that each person must exercise his or her right, but all rights must be in order. Let's say the basics of the rule of law, which is clearly laid down in our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u91	Please, Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear fellow! Igor Pavlovich! Igor Pavlovich, good day! Please explain a little to the citizens what is the difference, and to the national MPs also, between the basic and the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u93	An absolute similar system, which was in the first bill on the circulation of civilian weapons, is also clearly defined in the standards of the related bill 5709 and 5709 with the badge 1. It is the alternative bill that establishes all the provisions related to the circulation of short-term firearms, and it directly applies similar rules in certain articles of administrative legislation and criminal legislation, including the article I highlighted in article 36 of the law on necessary defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u94	Please, Puziyczuk, Fatherland, Andri Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u95	Good afternoon. Please give the floor to General Zimbaluuk Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u96	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you to the faction colleagues for their word. I wanted to ask the author of the bill. In fact, I agree with the motivation and the argument that there is no civil arms law today. And it's very good that such a law will be. I have a question for you, Igor Pavlovich, will you not initiate the adoption of another bill? Finally, in the Ukrainian law. More loyally, the right should be the law on private property. How will citizens protect property rights when most of those who have used weapons in such defense today are brought to criminal responsibility? To protect a person, there must be a law on private property. So went the United States: first private property, first the law, and then possession by fire.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u97	Thank you. The time for questions and answers is over. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u98	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Thank you for supporting the first bill, 5708. With regard to the law on property rights. I think we had the Property Act. And it was fundamental when we adopted the basic, key norms of the Civil Code in 2004. But it is directly Bill 5709 that contains appropriate rules that ensure that property rights are respected, including from socially dangerous, unlawful, or real threats to such property or to the health of the individual, including. Thus, this law deals directly with the issues raised by you during the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u99	Thank you. For the report on Bill 5709-1, please invite Sharaszkin Andriyovich, please. Andrew Andryovich. Sharaszkin Andriyovich, please report. From the rostrum? From where? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u100	Guys, 10 minutes. That's great. What I would like to pay attention to is my respectable colleagues. First. I have to say, once we've legalized an existing system, a free system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We had no right to self - protection, no right to self - protection, and there will be no such thing. Of course, we'll do everything we can with our colleagues to try to change that. Because in the way that this bill is a state of affairs today, it cannot get to the second reading. I welcome the initiative and the author of Mr. Fries's bill, and the chairman of Mr. Jonush's committee, in that they are ready to work on the second reading of the existing state of affairs. Now, with regard to our changes that we are offered. There is one major and very large variance. According to the main draft law, which, without defiance 1, is proposed to be responsible for the illegal use of human weapons. But what are the terms? There's a lot of responsibility. The responsibility for the illegal carrying of arms, which I stress is simply carrying, it has not yet produced any consequences and is not the result of anything, simply carrying is proposed for 7 years of deprivation of liberty. I mean, it's more than rape, it's like murder. This is the first moment. The second point that's very important to remember is the idea of democracy as such. We see how they use a tool like the folding of adminprotocols. And they went to an unsanctioned rally, and you got rolled up by the Adminprotocol, even if they weren't delayed, and they came to you and removed the weapons you registered. And that's even a factor that increases your guilt. So my appeal and my request to all the national MPs, which at least in the part that now regulates, including the limits of the necessary defence, is to take an alternative 5709-1 for arms. At least the right and the ability of a person to apply the limits of the necessary defence is prescribed. There are no such infamous attraction for administrative misconduct or for carrying, or carrying, even their legal weapons. So my proposal and my call to all colleagues to vote for 5709-1 is an alternative and to take it as a basis. And once again, thank you to the law enforcement colleagues who have already expressed their willingness to continue working and to change that bill that we just voted on in the first reading, the previous 5708. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u101	Heroic glory! Thank you. Please ask the co-conspirator if there is one. Please sign up. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u103	Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u104	Dear Andrew, once again, I stress that the Anti-Corruption Committee has recognized that it contains, in fact, corruption, particularly in the procedure for the use of prize-winning weapons, because it is substantially expanded in the bill, supported by the committee, the list of people who can be rewarded is not just the employees of the relevant organs, and we know what corruption is in this area. Please tell me how this is regulated by your bill, if there is no corruption in it, because it is, unfortunately, consistent with the decision of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u105	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u106	Thank you so much for asking. We have just suggested that we define a limited circle of rewarded persons according to the statute. In that bill, which has already been voted on, it's a huge problem because the MPs have now supported the majority freely and effectively. The free reward of any person. Thus, the second reading will need to be changed, and it will have to be changed with firmness, and these questions will need to be kept in mind so that there will not be such disgraceful cases as have been rewarded by the Ministry of Internal Affairs even by criminals. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u108	My colleagues, thank you all for supporting the basic bill that we just voted on. I suggest that we move on so that we can save time for other important issues. Thank you. There will be no question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u109	Will you answer? Okay. She's Zinkevich, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u110	Thank you, colleagues. I wanted to point out that our faction is really not thrilled with this bill, we support the Sharaskin bill with our whole soul, it's the closest we can get. But we realize that unfortunately, most people don't vote for an alternative, so now we're thinking about supporting. And I also wanted to point out that, as self-director of the volunteer unit, I want to say that now that volunteer troops are starting to open up, it's important that we think about their interaction, their ability to issue weapons. Because it is the volunteers who will support our army when we first have mobilization that will not have enough of our military personnel, that volunteers can capture and help. So pay attention to that, and please make the most of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u111	Thank you, please. Question time's up. We're going to sign up for factions and groups. It's up to three minutes in full procedure, but I suggest we cut it to two minutes. None. (Right after the committee concluded.) There's no objection, two minutes if we are? Then, please, from the committee briefly, Mr. Danusz Alexander, we will continue to register.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement on December 8, 2021, reviewed Bill 5709 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Right to Civil Firearms. The bill is designed to bring the Criminal Code of Ukraine and KUPAP into line with the Ukrainian Civil Weapons Act. In fact, I'm going to go to the comments that this bill is addressed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In support of the bill with observations and suggestions, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection of Ukraine, Minsk, the Supreme Council’s Law Institute, the National Academy of Law of Ukraine, and the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka, expressed their support for the bill. In view of the above, therefore, the Committee proposes that the basic bill number 5709 should be accepted as a basis and that the alternative 5709-1, to which there is a large number of comments by the expert institutions, should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u113	Thank you. We sign up for two minutes of factions and groups. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u114	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, after we've actually adopted the basic bill 5708, it's clear that in this bill we're looking at a continuation of the subject. But it's easier for us to talk about this because we're practically amending the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Codes, which reinforce as if they were the positions that were essentially the laws on the circulation of civilian weapons. So actually, I don't see any very different things here, we have to vote for it in 5709. And I just want to remind you that in terms of, let's say, certain norms were at odds. But we agreed that the definition of "necessary defence" has to be in place, because when we look at these issues, it's kind of complicated. Hence, it is suggested that the situation that is harmful to those who are violating human rights and to society be excluded should be necessary and sufficient in this context. This rule needs to be ruled out, taking into account the specificity of the moment. It is also proposed to rule out the rightfulness of the necessary defence as the absence of exceeding its limits. Because it's always such a pretty controversial norm. And certainly we should welcome the expansion of the list of circumstances in which a person is exempt from criminal responsibility in self - defense. It's very important, again taking into account the current moment. All the other questions we're completely able to settle for second reading. That's why the Trust MPs will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich. "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u116	I ask you to give the floor to the national deputy Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u118	Thank you. Pavluk Maxim, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." As co-author of the 5708 bill, thank you to all colleagues, to all the national MPs who supported the bill. Finally, the Supreme Council took a step toward regulating the circulation of civilian weapons. Dear colleagues, we must now take a second step and foresee responsibility for the violation, possible violation, by Ukrainian citizens of the order of receipt and general circulation of civilian weapons. Bill 5709 foresees both administrative responsibility and criminal responsibility. We're proposing that the bill expand the limits of the necessary defence, and we're greatly increasing administrative responsibility. So I ask my colleagues to support this bill as a basis, and the committee assumes the responsibility to professionally and quickly develop it for the second reading and to accept it as soon as possible in the second reading. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Majeschovich Mikola Romanovich, "European Solidarity". Turn on the microphone, please, Big Man. It's Zinkevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u120	Thank you. Once again, I want to repeat that we are not very excited about the bill. We support Sharaskin's alternative bill. Of course, we're considering supporting this, but we're still talking. I would also like to stress that it is very important, if this bill is adopted, that the alternative bill should take the best standards and a qualityly elaborated bill, so that it is not some kind of savvy, so that it does not diminish the rights of our citizens, and yet it does give them the opportunity to freely own weapons, because we are a warring country and this is very important to us. The more armed citizens in our country, the more we are protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u121	Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u122	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Please pass the word to Andrew Sharaskin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u123	Sharaskin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u124	Friends, I really want to thank my colleagues from the law enforcement committee who are willing to accept a huge number of rights, work on them and work on them effectively together. This is the first moment. But there's a point that we can't go along with, because it's in our 5709-1, in the alternative, that it's very clear that there's a division of responsibility. We can't all be considered military weapons, grenades, trots, civilian weapons, that kind of thing. We have this division of responsibility. There can be no one responsibility. There is more severe, there is another, according to the social danger it poses. This is the first moment. One second. In contrast to the basic, we are proposing in the administrative section that if you are already the owner of the weapon responsible, even increase your responsibility if it results in bad consequences. This is one moment. Another moment. Basically, unlike ours, it's actually offered simply for carrying, as if illegal, because you're there moving weapons, your legal weapons, from three to seven years. I'll remind you, it's more than rape, it can't be. So I call on this to vote for an alternative, where a clear division of responsibility has already been made, and to make it appropriate. Thank you very much. And I hope for your reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Ruddick, "To the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u126	Dear Ukrainians, do you know that we are still the only country in Europe that has no arms trafficking law? We adopted this bill in the first reading and gave the Ukrainians the right to self-defense. In voting for the second draft in the first reading, we have to give the Ukrainian the right not to be punished for using this weapon when he protects his own building, house, apartment, yard, car. Yes, current legislation and proposals regulate these issues. We are now having a very difficult time in our lives because there is an open front on Ukrainian Donbassa and Crimea, and there are still DDR groups that will definitely try to destabilize the situation, and they will not be walking along Ukrainian streets and cities with Russian Chevrons. And it will be very difficult for a private Ukrainian to distinguish the nationality and passport of the attacker. By giving the Ukrainians the right to self-defense, we will preserve a large number of lives. Therefore, we need to accept this first reading, after a reduced procedure, to refine and protect every Ukrainian as quickly as possible, for not only the land but also the weapons to protect this land makes the Ukrainian. We vote yes. I understand that there's an alternative bill and a basic bill. And now I'd be better off, and I'd be more personal than him. But it's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, colleagues, we have three minutes of speeches from the national deputies, but. "Paternality" yet? And you weren't speaking, were you? Okay. Tsymbaluk, Fatherland. We've got three minutes, six minutes from the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u128	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable chairman, the presidency! First of all, I would like to start with the fact that the Civil Weapons Circus Act in Ukraine is sharp and even sharp. And it's not exactly a pleasant thing that we're looking at this kind of difficult challenges for the Ukrainian state and society. Because now, as the drafters have said, there are only well-known normative documents that regulate the circulation of weapons, the registration of them. And in fact, we're already hearing about the corruption component of this process, we need to be able to normalize clearly. The main bills, as in the alternative ones, have a positive side. And it's very important that the primary voted, and from the alternative, I'm sure that the team of developers and we as national MPs will join in with those positive norms so that it becomes more perfect for the second reading. But Minust can't be a database holder, because in the IMF system it's been formed for years and a system of accounting that's not perfect, but it is. There has been a formed branch for more than ten years, and this base needs to be improved. I agree that there is some corruption. The task of us legislators is to create us in such a way as to improve the bill and to take away this corrupt component from the IMF system into Minsk for a second reading. As a result, the "Paternity" team is ready to join in the drafting of the bills for second reading and voting in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a recess until 12:30 in our session. Please gather at 12:30, preferably without delay, about 12:40 a.m. The leaders of the MP factions and groups are requested to come to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, consultations are under way with the leaders of the MP factions and groups, and we are awaiting the arrival of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for consultations. Thus, a 30 - minute recess is announced in a meeting of the presiding officer’s rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. In our consideration of 5709, we still have speeches by the national deputies and a closing statement. Please enroll the national deputies for the performance. A total of six minutes, up to three minutes each. Please, Iris Irina Vasilovna, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u132	Please give Jana Zinkevich the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u133	Thank you, colleagues. We will support an alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u134	Zinkewich. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavsky, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u135	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Francis Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u136	Fries Igor Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u137	Thank you. Thank you, colleague. Friends, look, basically, let's say the difference has probably already been sounded by all the authors and representatives of the various MP groups and factions. But it seems to me that the comprehensive bill, if we're talking about 5708, should be 5709, which, like the first bill, we should consider the best that was developed by the authors of the alternative bill. I would just like to point out that it is mainly Bill 5709 that makes appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning the following: it is envisaged that a special right given to a citizen is to be waived for the possession of civilian weapons and ammunition; it excludes outdated Soviet rules prohibiting the use of hunting rights, the confiscation of firearms, other hunting tools and war supplies to persons whose hunting is the main source of existence; it increases the amount of fines for violations of rights, if we entrust persons with certain rights to weapons, we should also restrict the illicit circulation of these weapons; and it sets appropriate rules for the examination of a person in the course of such an examination that carries out transportation, or carrying civilian weapons. It seems to me that today the legal situation in this matter needs considerable clarification, namely, the issues directly related to article 36 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I'd like to take the basics of just reading to you from the text of the bill, from a comparative table, how the issue of defence is defined today. The necessary defence is the use of force or other measures to protect legally protected rights, freedoms, benefits or interests of a person who is protecting himself or other persons, as well as the State’s social interests or interests, against a socially dangerous illegal attack or the real threat of such an attack by harming the offender in order to prevent or stop such an attack immediately. This is just how a person’s response to armed or unarmed assaults on life and health or on his property gives him the opportunity to react immediately. We determine that every person has the right to defence against such an attack, regardless of age, regardless of sex, regardless of nationality. We determine that it is not necessarily criminal responsibility to exceed the limits of the necessary defence in certain specific cases. For example, to prevent the attack of an armed person, to protect against the attack of a group of persons, to protect against attack, or to prevent the immediate elimination of a real threat if such a person has obvious physical advantages. I mean, a lot of things that make it possible to avoid criminal punishment in the execution of the necessary defense. So please support the primary.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u138	Please, Vasilenko Lesia, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Jurchino Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u140	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u141	Jurchisin Jaroslav, Voice faction. In fact, we believe that an alternative bill has been drafted with less corruption risks. In fact, the Anti-Corruption Committee has been considering a basic bill, and as I have pointed out, there are huge warnings, in fact, about the reward weapons, that we must correct in any case before the second reading. On the one hand, the initiator of both the main and the alternative can only be thanked for the fact that, at last, the issue of the circulation of civilian weapons is at such a high level. We're definitely going to have a decision today, that's definitely positive. At the same time, the disagreement between KUAP and the Criminal Code on responsibility for the introduction of administrative or criminal responsibility gives some discretion to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's all important to work on the second reading. We will support an alternative bill and we hope for quality refinements to the second reading properly from what will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u142	Please, Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u143	Colleagues, I think the committee will conduct a second reading of a fairly professional discussion and make this bill quite life-giving. And so I urge everyone to support the basic bill and to make more rational use of the time to adopt other important laws for Ukraine, especially at such a difficult time for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, colleagues, we can cross. Is the final word of the reporter and the coconspirator going to be? No, it's not. Coroner? Who's there? Sharaskin. Okay. Then we can go to the vote. Dear colleagues, request to take your seats, prepare for the vote. We're taking up seats, colleagues. I am betting on the adoption of a bill under registration number 5709 amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Firearms Act. Please vote. [[13:42:23]] For 267 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Show the factions, please. Now, as we've shortened the terms before, there's also an offer to shorten the terms after that, the committee doesn't mind. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half of the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights for the second reading of the bill under registration number 5709 amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Right to Civil Firearms. Please vote. [[13:43:14]] For 277 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues. Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, we're still following Plan 5801, but we have a proposal to move to 7100, this is about fast budgetary changes to the Budget Code on the quick use of funds. The committee just passed, there's a consensus. Okay. Then let's move on to 7,100. I'm returning the lead to Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me there is a need to discuss this bill? Yesterday it was signed by all the leaders of factions and groups. One second. Dear colleagues, we need the committee to read its conclusion if we can. Please make the decision of the committee, Aristov. One second. We have a few more ritual votes to make before the committee. One second. Dear colleagues, we have voted that we are now moving to 7,100. This is a draft law amending Chapter VI of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. I propose to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day. Please, Your Honor, please vote. [[13:45:35]] For 329 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session, 226 votes are required. Please vote. [[13:46:02]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:46:23]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, give us a reporter, a co-reporter, and more. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u146	Dear friends, Bill 7100 is a bill that allows in a difficult situation a sufficiently strong military threat to fund our defence, our army for defence and the army. This is an important key story. I want to tell you that in a situation like this, where we are currently experiencing, practically at war with the Russian Federation, we cannot allow our army to be underfunded by all parameters. Besides, we can't let any of the apherists in the supervisory boards, I don't want to call those names Ukrainians, get 200 to 300,000 dollars a month's salary, and our military, who defends the front line of Ukraine today, practically get a penny for which they can't feed themselves or their families. It's unacceptable. And that's why we've offered money for military personnel who are working more faithfully, protecting Ukraine on the front line, increasing threefold, increasing all funding for arms purchases, increasing the cost of military-industrial complexes. What this law, which has brought together all factions without exception, means that the treasury account, in general, is administered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with absolute priority and no restrictions on defence spending. That means if 100 percent of the budget costs are to be spent on defense, that is, it will be, and everyone else will be covered up. It's the first line to financially protect our army and defense. Glory to Ukraine! And we vote "yes" friendlyly by all parliaments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u147	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Thank you for your initiative and for your support. I invite the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Yuri Yuriovich Aristov. Please, Yuri Yuriovich. Ivanovich Krulko. The committee’s decision will be announced with all the comments and corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u148	Ivan Krulko. Dear fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! The budget committee at the February 23rd meeting considered draft Law 7100 in extremely strict terms. The bill to provide sufficient expenditure for national security and defence in 2022 sets out the specificities of budgetary regulation in connection with the increase in the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has pointed out that valid legislation regulates the implementation of state-of-the-art activities in the context of the implementation of the state-of-war state, so the implementation of individual provisions of the bill is considered problematic under other conditions. In conclusion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 7100 on the basis of the first reading to be adopted on the basis and as a law taking into account the proposals made by the Committee in its conclusions and the necessary editorial amendments. I would also like to point out that when this bill was considered on the committee, chapter II of the bill was decided: "This law takes effect from the day following the day of publication, and operates for three months." Dear colleagues, please support this bill, which is extremely important in these circumstances, on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u149	Thank you. Ivan Ivanovich, I understand that you're proposing on a basis, after that, in general, taking into account the committee's proposals and the technical and legal amendments? That's exactly what I'm going to put to the vote. Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss or vote? We can vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're not voting, are we? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? Dear colleagues, I then, with your permission, make these proposals in turn. Please take your seats and prepare for the decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (project registration number 7100). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please. Say it again? I repeat. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (project registration number 7100). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:34]] For 347 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following proposal to the committee: to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the introduction to Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (registration number 7100). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:17]] For 347 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's see the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sign the bill adopted by the Supreme Council immediately and send it to the President immediately. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please support and vote on the immediate signing of the adopted act and its immediate transmission to the President of Ukraine, immediately referring to the signature. [[13:54:14]] For 355 Decision taken. The factions, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. From the procedure? Please, the people's deputy of the Gerasims.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u152	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! First. I would like to address you, as we agreed this morning, to give a mandate to the professional committees to consider a bill on the fight against collaborationism -- 5135 -- and also to consider on the committees bills 5101 and 5102 -- to protect Ukraine's information security so that they can be worked on on committees today. And last but not least, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would ask that today we may also meet for an extraordinary meeting to consider and adopt a bill on the allocation of additional billions to the Ukrainian army. I know the committee's already made a decision, and we can take it off-limits today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m0.u153	Thank you. The great colleagues in the first cluster of issues you mentioned, yes, we had this arrangement at the faction and group leaders' meeting. I ask the appropriate committees to meet today and make appropriate decisions. Besides, as we're going to have an extra one, I think we're going to have a plan for this outlier right now. But I think we'll meet again today and meet in this room. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes. If you agree without discussion, there's 5801. [[B in m in s a l in]] You won't. Dear colleagues, let's not discuss this. Come on, 5801. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no? Well, they say no. Dear colleagues, there is no such thing. [[B in m in s a l in]] 6416? Friends, 6416, do you agree to this bill? 6416 without discussion. Dear colleagues, now. Dear colleagues, we have to vote ritually, so I'm going to continue this meeting, but before we consider this issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, I'll give the committee my word. Dear colleagues, please prepare, I propose to proceed to Bill 6416 now. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, then we have 5801. Please, let's vote it out. Who's against it? "Paternity" against, yeah, I get it, right? Dear colleagues, you don't want to have no discussion, do you? And if we do it now, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes so we can vote in 15 minutes. Okay? I'm continuing the meeting of the Supreme Council for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, everything, thank you, no consent, no laws. The plenary session is closed.
