ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. That is why we are now in line with our orders to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the conditions of martial law and to organize the work of the Supreme Council in connection with the act of armed aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine on February 24, 2022, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Dear colleagues, before we move on to our mandatory parts, I would like to address each of you on the subject of online broadcasting from the hall and the presentation of information relating to the meeting of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I want us to finally understand that this is a matter of common security, so let's work it out, we're putting out all the information about this meeting 30 minutes after it's over. Dear colleagues, it's all about 30 minutes after completion. And let's put this rule in general in this room. So, dear colleagues, according to our good tradition, let's start our work with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Heroim Slava! Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable national MPs, for the fourth month now, our courageous soldiers in the field of battle, sacrificing themselves, have chosen for Ukraine the right to a decent life in a free European community. Dear friends, I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the defenders and protectors who died for the sovereign and independent Ukraine, as well as the memory of the peaceful inhabitants who became victims of the Russian aggressor. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian people demonstrate the tenacity and unbreakability of the spirit in their fight against the enemy, and everyone in his place is doing everything he can to bring our victory closer. Today, a professional holiday for health - care professionals who have already served 116 years in overcrowded conditions, many in the zone of active warfare, honoring their professional responsibilities to save lives and health. Our medics are heroes. Their self - sacrificing work listens to the highest grades. Let us applaud our medics for their tireless work. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, in addition, today, June 19, International Day to Combat Sexual Violence in Conflict. On that day, we can firmly declare that Russian military forces are involved in such violence against our people, and they will certainly be punished, and no one will be able to hide from justice. Dear friends, let's get to work. I want to remind you once again about the fixation of the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the general formula that I propose to apply, plus 30 minutes after the meeting, please show no online broadcasts in the hall. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to give time to three minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups before discussing the agenda. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't have a record of you checking in. Sign up for three minutes, Irina Volodymyrna. From factions and groups, please, we agreed on three minutes of performance. Now they're registered. Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity political party. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! The month of June is absolutely crucial to the Ukrainian state. The 23rd must be the European Council's decision to grant us the status of an official candidate country. Since the 28th NATO summit, where we have to choose a plan of action for NATO membership, without taking NATO off the agenda today, this is the G7 meeting. And so, after the Association Agreement, which we ratified in this Hall, and I had the honour to sign, after the visa waiver, after a deeper and comprehensive zone of free trade with the European Union, after amending the Constitution of Ukraine, by establishing a mandatory course for Ukraine for membership in the European Union and NATO, it is perfectly logical to obtain candidate status as members of the European Union. These are the Armed Forces of Ukraine, our heroic soldiers, soldiers and officers, volunteers, and the people of Ukraine have by their blood chosen to be candidates. And who will now have a hand to deny to Ukraine and the Ukrainians? According to the Congress of the European People's Party, we have provided and do everything in common to ensure that the representatives of our political family fully support the Ukrainian application. We are also now joining the Inter-Parliamentary Democracy to do everything we can to make a positive decision until the leaders of the member states sit in the Brussels home of Europe. I also want to draw attention to the implementation of the road map of membership that the European Commission has set up for Ukraine in the areas of democracy, freedom of speech, freedoms and human rights, the rule of law, anti-corruption policy. I propose that the Supreme Council, together with the government, form an active body that will determine the date, the list and the need for action in order to implement these instructions. And in days, Putina Medvedev, Ukraine, gave her voice, said she wouldn't be able to do it in two years. Basil Simonenko said, "My people are, my people will always be! No one will destroy my people! All the perverse and the perverse, and the hordes of the conquerors shall perish." Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u3	Please welcome National Deputy Shpak Love Alexandrovna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, for over three months now, our country has heroically fought the enemy, the Russian Federation, which has cynically invaded our borders. Every day our nation suffers enormous losses -- human, material, technical, economic and other. Our nation’s economic losses amount to up to $1 billion a day. To do that, we need to build up resources for our social sphere, defense and others. To date, all the money we receive is credited to us. And accordingly, Ukraine continues to service the public debt today, and every month it spends money from the state budget, which is so short on our deadline, immediate needs, which depend on the defense of our country. So we're going to the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in a position to immediately transfer negotiations with all foreign partners on credit obligations regarding the review and cancellation of our debts. And the situation that we have right now is a typical force majeure for our country and these costs are what we need. So please join and hear. It is now necessary to do everything possible to support the financial sector of our Ukraine and to stabilize our economy. Because, unfortunately, our indicators are disappointing today. This will allow us to accumulate the necessary funds for our army and to achieve our victory as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u5	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, a faction of the political party "Golos". Jaroslav Romanovich, please, Juršin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u6	Glory be to Ukraine, fellows! Praise our Armed Forces! Today we have traditionally begun a day of minute silence with you, and perhaps at this moment of silence everyone could mention those names that are close. The worst part is when war starts to get a name. And we, as members of the All-Ukrainian organization Plast, are now clearly associated with the war, especially this period between our meetings, with two deaths -- the Vitaly of Derech of Ternopol and Artem Dimid of Lviv, and one of us was saying good-bye last week, and Artem and I are going to say good-bye this week. In Kiev, this war is already very clearly associated with the death of Roman Ratushna, with whom we were saying goodbye yesterday, which, in fact, we have heard, unfortunately, that in this room was called a "scan activist," but the war showed very clearly who is who, and who lays down life and soul for his family, well, who remains as it was before the war. But we now have a unique opportunity with you to make sure that the death of Vitali, Artema, Romana, many others is not in vain. Today, tomorrow, we'll be discussing Euro-Integration Bills. And instead of getting into small debates, someone likes something, something doesn't like it, they just need to support the Istanbul Convention, and anti-corruption strategy, and environmental laws, and everything they need to move forward into the European Union. But more is needed than just the Supreme Council. We remember the not-chosen one, but in fact the final contest, the last meeting on the position of head of the Specialized Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office. We remember the unfinished work of the Ethics Commission, which now selects members of the High Council of Justice, and we really have to do it. But our dead heroes require more than just work in the Euro-integration direction. It was necessary -- and it was a matter for the government -- to activate the work to combat collaborationism. The list is still not approved, the property is still only arrested, not budgeted. And most importantly, let's eventually eliminate and ban the agency. The Ukrainian Moscow Church of the Russian Patriarchate must be eliminated. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u7	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u8	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to Pauline Yuri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u9	Yuri Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I'll start with statistics. This morning, 323 children were killed, more than 583 injured. And this is from February 24th. I would like to remind you that before the wars in Ukraine there were 7 million children, of whom 2 million are now being evacuated abroad, or with parents, over 2 million evacuated within Ukraine, some 600,000 children are now in occupied areas or in active combat areas. Nearly half of Ukrainian children and a third of the country’s adult population faced displacement, evacuation. Some of these citizens, our citizens, have experienced these destructive conditions twice in their lives: in 2014 and in 2022. It is extremely important to note that the return of such citizens to a permanent residence may be complicated and delayed because of the need for a long time to demarcate the areas of cities and villages, to restore basic conditions for living and employment. Thus, the return from the evacuation can be prolonged and complicated. There are two main proposals for organizing relief work for such citizens. One is the creation of a separate central authority to deal with the problems of displaced persons. The second is the development of special state programs. At the same time, the answer to this question needs to be given today and today to adopt decisions that will help people solve the basic problems they face. I'm going to put a stop to the problems of citizens who are abroad. Today, the Russian Crimes Ordinance, which illegally exported it, will contain illegal Ukrainian children. At the same time, there is growing concern for those children who have gone abroad, anxiety about 11,000 orphans, children deprived of parental care. The bets, guardians and foster families, the DBST, who raise such children, or the problems of the absence of Ukrainian legislation and its inconsistencies with the country of residence. Children’s legal representatives turn to the Ukrainian authorities every day for help. Hundreds of children today are separated from Ukraine’s authorized representatives, and in fact children are left in another country without any contact with Ukraine. There's no reliable information. That is why I ask the Government of Ukraine to urgently address the issue of empowering Ukraine's representatives to deal with the protection of the rights of children who are abroad. I demand that consular institutions be brought into line with the current needs of Ukrainian citizens, who today are millions outside. Regrettably, the Ukrainian child’s protection system has not been able to withstand a test of its ability.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Once again from this high rostrum, we want to emphasize that the Ukrainian people have demonstrated great unity and courage during the last period of time. 116 days and 8 years, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, now our territorial defenses, our border guards and the Nazgwardia, with incredible courage, protect every village and city, every person, every Ukrainian. And that deserves a lot of thanks. They protect not only the territory of Ukraine and us Ukrainians. Our Armed Forces are protecting European values, these democratic old-fashioned values, protecting all of Europe without exaggeration. For over 116 days and over 8 years, our protectors have been working with medics, military doctors, all of our country's medics. And on this day we thank you very much. These more than 116 days and 8 years work too hard for our volunteers, each of you is working for the Ukrainians, who are each in their place of work. Those who pay taxes to the budget so that we can pay salaries to our protectors and protectors so that we can pay pensions to our pensioners so that we can pay salaries to our medics, teachers and everyone who works in our country today. Today is also an important historic moment because we are on our way to becoming a candidate for the European Union. We believe that this historic decision will take place in the near future, to which the Ukrainian people followed the great thorny path that our whole country is ready to take. And we believe that we will continue to do more Euro-integration processes, adopt anti-corruption legislation, accept all the necessary things, in order to actually join this family of high-end European peoples. We believe in all of this, we work to win together.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Placheva Tetjana Mikhailovna, Ukrainian Deputy Group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u14	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We live and work in historical times. Not only are we Parliament of a warring country, but we are now witnesses and builders of how the Ukrainian state is constantly moving towards full membership in the European Union. The positive conclusion of the European Commission is an overwhelming decision to take the next step for days. I believe that next week's summit of EU leaders will give green light to Ukraine's accession status. The Ukrainian Liberation Group believes that our nation has the full right to be a full part of the European community. Ukraine's strategic course of integration into the EU was officially announced back in the 1990s. Our desire to join the European family is relevant from the beginning of our country’s independence. Today, the European community is in a clear position with regard to Ukraine’s European future. The rhetoric that Ukraine is not even ready to become a candidate is no longer relevant, especially during its visit to the leaders of European countries. The official Kiev will strengthen and upgrade the European Union at a qualitatively new level. Moreover, our state is even closer to EU standards today than the individual Eastern European states at the time of their entry. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" is awaiting a positive decision at the June 23-24 summit, which will begin the countdown of the quality of our new chapter on geopolitical life. Yes, we know that this status requires a number of demands, but these are requirements that demonstrate actual integration, not just some imagination. How long will Ukraine move towards full membership in the EU will depend solely on us. The MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" group is confident that our country is capable of bringing about rapid changes. We now have the most important – a strong political will for Ukraine's full integration into the EU, and we will go from candidate to full membership and we will go through it with confidence. Everyone in this process has a role to play -- both Parliament, both the government, and the President, and civil society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, "Fatherland" who? Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u16	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, honourable Ukrainians, I would like to dedicate my speech to one subject only. Today, there is a medical worker’s day in Ukraine. And I'd like to first welcome all the Ukrainian medics with their professional holiday, with Medical Officer's Day. I want to thank them for their dedicated work from our entire "Paternity" team for saving people's lives, for their years of receiving the surplus from the budget, actually getting the pit for their hard work, but they worked loyally while remaining in their fighting position, in their medical post. And today, doctors play an incredibly important role in defending our state from the Russian occupation. Many of them are on the front. They risk their lives every day, treat and return our defenses, who have been seriously injured. They provide a qualitative return to the defense of all those who have suffered injuries and injuries. They do not sleep at night and work around the clock. So, of course, when we as national deputies talk about the medical field, we have to think about one thing, and what model should be the most effective to make the medical community feel protected, and the services they provide are as good as possible for each patient. Our "Paternity" team has been advocating for years that reform of the medical sector must apply to insurance medicine, which is the only tool tested in the world and in the European Union that allows medical workers to have a decent salary, to provide medical facilities, but, above all, to enable every patient to receive quality and primary available medical care when they need it, because it will be paid for from insurance payments. That's why we, as the "Paternity" team, don't have to do experiments on Ukrainians in the form of medical reforms that aren't tested anywhere in the world, just try us out. We need to do what has already been proved in the world. We have to protect the medical staff, we have to support the medical sector. Above all, we today need to provide adequate medical care for every health care provider who returns to the lives of our defenders in good health and in his life. And I would like, with the permission of the Head of the Supreme Council, to announce a moment of silence for every Ukrainian medic who died on the front, defending himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u17	I understand Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, war requires us to make some very quick and unusual decisions. I want to go to the hall right now. We talked to the Prime Minister today about what we need to think about is how we're going to be going through this year and, in particular, the heating season. I'm not surprised and convinced that our aggressor, who is operating in Ukraine today, is ruining our homes, is going to do everything he can to prepare and destroy our infrastructure in the winter to provide heat to our big cities and towns in Ukraine. I'm not talking about Kharkiv and other district centers anymore. So today we need to prepare for this program and prepare for these challenges. I propose to create a normal group that really with the government now very quickly in a week or two will work out the algorithm of action and preparation for these challenges. It's about getting ready immediately, buying moving diesel generators that will provide electricity around every quarter of the city to provide a minimum of heat to the buildings. Moving boilers, moving tents that need to be in the MNS and in every city in stock to give people a warm place to eat. But prepare to have in reserve a complete set of valves for repairing power and power lines and water supplies and heat supplies and other utilities. Having completely in stock transformers substations, cables, all that it takes to crash, to urgently restore heat-, electricity-, water supply in each town and in every city of Ukraine. We can start this program now, preparing, and in a month, two, three, all necessary procedures. Our industry and industry in the European Union can provide us with all the equipment we need in 4-5 months to be ready for these challenges. The second topic is the consumption of gas. We have the opportunity today to have an equally powerful industrial modernization programme, utility companies, switch equipment, and 30-40 percent reduce gas consumption in Ukraine. This program, which can be planned, done, and put into service in six months, is at least small, medium cities in Ukraine and industrial sites. And this will enable us not to look for additional gas reserves and buy them, but rather to reduce gas consumption and switch to electricity, electricity and electricity. We have the opportunity to change our industry, update and give the industry orders from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Dear friends, today is the birthday of our colleague of the national deputy of Ukraine, Victoria Alexander's Fungi, the non-factional. Let's welcome Victoria Alexandrovna. A strong health to you, a peaceful heaven above your head and all the good. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the day’s vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. People's deputies, we're taking our seats. Dear colleagues, I invite you to take part in the signal vote. I remind you that to do this, you have to press the "Z" green button, and you have to hold the sensor button, then press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? It's a signal vote. People's deputies please make a signal vote. Please vote. [[12:35:57]] For 288 Dear colleagues, I've asked you, there's four held up, vote in favour, so we have a general picture. Dear friends, the list of questions that have been given to you today is consistent with the Conciliation Council, it has been handed over to you, so we are moving on to the issues of the agenda. The first question before you is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the member states of the European Union and the institutions of the European Union to support Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Dear colleagues, we must now vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda. This is Bill 7471. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:37:03]] For 301 Decision taken. Next, I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified way. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:25]] For 278 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u20	Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, Ukrainian national deputy, head of the Supreme Council, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for the consideration of Rule 7471. I would like to remind you, on February 28, four days after the start of a full-scale invasion, that Ukraine, in the presence of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, applied to join the European Union as the Head of the Supreme Council and Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal. On March 1st, the European Parliament adopted such a resolution. On April 8, the President of the European Commission handed over the questionnaire, and on Friday, the European Commission had already adopted a starting point on Ukraine’s application to join the European Union. The European Council will meet from 23 to 24 June, which will have to make a final and formal decision on the issue. We have all recently returned from a number of trips to EU member countries to secure their support for Ukraine's candidate status. I would like first of all to thank each of you who have taken part in these trips, who have been driving and persuading or personally, or online about Ukraine's dignity with regard to gaining the prospects of membership in Ukraine. I want to thank the Supreme Council for its deliberations in the person of my deputies, who have also joined the active lobbying and advocacy of these issues. Dear colleagues, we have a unique chance that Ukraine has gone to for decades. Now, if we vote in favour of this resolution, we will, of particular desires, make the only wish of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and declare to the world that the Supreme Council of Ukraine requests 23-24, four months after the start of this shameful war, the prospect of our membership in the European Union and becoming a candidate. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u22	The co-report invites the head of the Committee on European Integration, Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union at its meeting on 17 June 2022 discussed the draft Decree (7471) on the Application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to EU Member States and EU institutions to support Ukraine's accession to the European Union. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft regulation be adopted on the basis and in general with the Committee's proposals. In making such a decision, the members of the committee came from the fact that the adoption of the decision would significantly strengthen Ukraine's support not only at the European Union level but also at the national level of the EU Member States and contribute to the consolidation of positions on the granting of candidate status to Ukraine. Obviously, we all welcome the European Commission's decision, and we expect a similar decision to be adopted by the European Council. In this decision-making, we also call on you and the European Union countries to support Ukraine's aspirations and to grant candidate status to join the EU. We also suggest that they continue to stand side by side with the Ukrainian people in their struggle for their sovereignty and the restoration of territorial integrity in internationally recognized borders, continue to provide as much economic and financial support as possible to Ukraine, increase military assistance at both national and European peace funds, continue to provide humanitarian assistance and continue to exert severe sanctions against the Russian Federation and Belarus. Thus, we believe that the adoption of a decision will have a positive impact on the consolidation of international legal efforts to support Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Please support with the committee's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u24	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Dear colleagues, we voted for a brief discussion of this issue. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, indeed, we are experiencing a historic moment in the life of Ukraine, and that is what everyone understands and knows. This step, which the European Union is now taking to Ukraine, essentially closes the door to the past once and for all and gives us a beautiful European perspective that can enable us to change the lives of Ukraine and the Ukrainians forever. The fact that this decision was fought by entire generations of Ukrainians, you know that. You know that Ukraine comes from a European civilization. And what we have been kept in prison for many years is only part of history, distorted and humiliated. And our home, our origin, is really a European civilization. And I want to remind you that it's the Ukrainians who have chosen this right every day since independence. Ukraine is the only nation that has shed blood on the Mayday of Dignity in order not to lose its European perspective. All generations of Ukrainians fought for it. That's what we're doing right now. And I would like this not only to be a declaration for us, but to pay attention to the statement by the head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Ljayen. And she made it clear that Ukraine is expected to build a democratic, strong society with courts, without corruption, with freedom of speech, with competition, with everything we've always dreamed of. And I would like us to do everything we can to meet these requirements at all times. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u26	The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Rudik Kira Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, when the number of days of war passed by in 100, we stopped keeping the exact figure in our head. We realize that it is a difficult, exhausting struggle that counts on our endurance, strength, and the number of lives we lose in order to win. The most common question from our colleagues from abroad is, aren't we afraid that the war in Ukraine will become a new norm, that interest in Ukraine will fade, and we will remain alone with the enemy? No, we're not afraid. Indeed, Ukraine’s support from every corner of the world was based at first on emotion, compassion, solidarity, impulse. These sharp emotions, which are now replaced by a clear strategy and a clear understanding of how we will all win together, what Ukraine needs, not in the short term, but in the long run, what Ukraine needs in the next year. The decision to give us heavy weapons — not emotional, Britain's decision to train our military — is not emotional, Canada's parliament's decision to confiscate Russia's assets and hand them over to Ukraine is not emotional. We used to say that we were afraid that war in Ukraine would become a new norm for the world. At present, the world’s long - term, systematic, unbreakable assistance to Ukraine on all fronts is becoming the norm. We're no longer asked what they can do to help, because each one of us has a list in his pocket of his jacket that is ready to hand over to any international partner. Because we know that the work of each of us depends on what our country gets. And because right now, the day before we get applied, we're really working as a team of Ukraine -- a team of Ukraine, which is the only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u28	The word is given to the People's Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Clearly, today is a unique moment. You and I are on the verge of an important historic decision. My parents and my parents fought for Ukraine’s independence. And they have reached their goal and goal. And our generation is fighting with you to have Ukraine in the family of these democratic values, in the family of the European peoples. And you and I are on the verge of this important decision. We have proven to the countries of the European Union that we are also carriers of democratic values. The Ukrainian brave people have proved to the countries of the European Union that we are also worthy of fasting on the eastern borders of the European Union. So we believe that in the coming days, Europe will also show that it recognizes the invention of the Ukrainian people, that it also stands side by side in the struggle of the Ukrainian people for our sovereignty, for our territory, for our European democratic values. We believe that Europe will show and prove that it will continue to contribute to the reconstruction of the Ukrainian state. We believe that in the coming days Ukraine will become a candidate for membership in the European Union. I urge all of you to vote in favour of this appeal by the Supreme Council to all members of the EU to vote in favour of Ukraine's application in the family of European states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u30	The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the "Platforma for Life and Peace" group. After that Klimpush-Cincadze and Bezgin, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear Mr. Golovo, my fellow Members, our group, the MP's "Platforma for Life and Peace" support this draft decision. We have no doubt that candidate status is actually already a value to us. And we will have, Ruslan Alexiyovich, perhaps a constructive proposal for you to strengthen our negotiating position, because the European Union is an economic union. I have a proposal that Mineconomies, Nazbank, for example, the Institute of Economics and Forecasting, should provide research where we will show a macroeconomic effect from Ukraine's accession to the EU not only for Ukraine but also for the European Union. And then we're going to show that it's a common, cumulative, integration union that's going to benefit both the Ukrainian people and the European peoples. So from this point of view, this kind of research would be relevant in order to strengthen our, not only the speaker, but also the position of the President, and other official representatives of Ukraine in the international arena, which would show that Ukraine's integration into the EU in the economic sphere is about increasing competitiveness, that's overcoming the negative effects of inflation, that's increasing labour productivity, the rise in gross domestic product and so on, and so on and so on. So in particular macroeconomic indicators, we can increase this, and even in such a reference, we can continue to present it in specific numbers to make our position sound strong in the international arena. And we can give you two scenarios. The first one we can give about joining the 27 countries of the European Union, and the second one is 19 plus one Croatia, these are the countries of the European Union. We can show two scenarios, one by one, and the other by scenario, for what the economic effect will be from joining in to one or the other integration. And then our position will only increase. It's like an offer. And we're sure to back it up now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u32	The word is Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of European Solidarity. After that, Bezgin. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, our history knows many times when the Ukrainian dream was simply given by hand, but something was not made up: there was no unity in society, there was no support for the world, nor was there sufficient strength for the army. Today, the situation is quite different. And I'm sure you and I have come to win. To win and to see the birth of a new European country that is plagued by trials and power far from all nations. And so obviously, as European Solidarity, we support this determination, and we hope that this will be a step towards the end of the 800-year rule of the horde and the continuation of its project in the form of the Russian Federation. We hope that the European Council, by adopting a decision on candidate status, will open the way for us to anchor ourselves in the future of Europe and to create the Ukraine that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u34	The word is given to the National Deputy of Bezgin Vitali Yuriovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u35	Good afternoon, colleagues! What about us and what about Ukraine, in fact, obtaining candidate status and further status as a member of the European Union? It's not new, it's about going home, because Ukraine has always been a European country and a European asset. In fact, since 2014, since the beginning of the Dignity Revolution, from the aggression of the Russian Federation, we have been paying a huge price to go this way. And it seems to me that sometimes in this room we forget a little bit about it because there are things that have to connect us all as a faction of Ukraine, not different political forces with different preferences. And all that has to do is be unity, unity, when we talk about Ukraine in Europe. Why? Because our soldiers, who die on the front every day, don't wonder if they're the only ones, because they're protecting the state, not a political brand. And I hope that this is a vote and our joint advocacy of Ukrainian interest in Europe and European interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take all your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear friends, this is indeed a historic vote that reinforces the first position of the joint parliament to grant Ukraine the status of the candidate crane. Because we've all done a lot together, individually, in groups and in groups of friendships, and now we have to take a decision by Parliament before the European Council takes a decision. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Member States of the European Union and the institutions of the European Union to support Ukraine's accession to the European Union (draft 7471). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:27]] For 315 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellow Members, and we look forward to the decision of the 23rd-24th so that we can place in this corner the flag of the European Union and move towards full membership. Dear colleagues, the next bill, there's a whole series of ratifications and laws. We agreed, one with discussion, and then a large number of decisions, ratifications, denunciations and others, we vote without discussion. Therefore, I request that the National Deputies do not depart. And we start with the first 0149, this is the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Scientific and Technical Cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:56:39]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, then I ask you immediately: two in favour, two in opposition, as we have spoken, and we continue to vote on all questions. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, against discussing the whole range of issues that we will continue to discuss without discussion, please. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u37	I beg you to give Irina Heratchenko the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Our political team has done everything to ensure that Ukraine abandons its so-called multi-century policy and moves exclusively towards the EU and NATO. And obviously today, the state of Ukraine needs a complete denunciation of all the agreements with the aggressor country and the artificial creation of the SND. But it is very important not only to introduce a visa regime with an aggressor country of the Russian Federation, but to give up the ideology of Russia in Ukraine. What is Russia? It's total non-freedom, it's a lack of Parliament, it's a lack of freedom of speech. And let us look today at Ukraine, which sets an example of courage, dignity, and what it means to be a nation all over the world. But at a time when our army is so heroicly defending our state, you and I have to do everything we can to ensure that there is a strong parliament and independent media in Ukraine. Please tell me, is it normal when today there are important laws in order to support the Ukrainian book, the Ukrainian language, and at the same time from our scarce budget, we are spending almost a billion on the so-called "Freedom" channel, which some of Warsaw has something to say in Russian -- for whom? Please tell me, is it normal that today's decision by some helpful idiot in power can block our European integration through the lack of freedom, political censorship and the exclusion of three television channels. And that's actually how it started in the country. So let us denounce not only all agreements with the aggressor country, but in our brains we denounce Russia's ideology with its total incompetence, disrespect for Parliament, political censorship and the closing of the mouth of the media. And that will be our greatest respect and the building of a democratic Ukraine with you today. Obviously this should be our shared ideology with you. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u39	Please, Deputy Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the Voice. Pippa, please, Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u40	Good afternoon! Today's decision is the minimum that we can and should have done long ago when we have a very similar appeal, it is now passing through the committee to also denounce cooperation with Russia in the science and science and technology sphere. Because with a country that kills people and considers it a norm, rapes children and considers it a norm, 86 percent of the population, you can't talk about science or scientific and technological progress, it's a country that's remained in the 20th century. So we have to do this and we're going to call all the countries of the European Union that think they're civilized, stop any cooperation in the scientific sphere with Russia, until it itself recognizes itself as an aggressor country and capitalizes. So now it's this necessary step that I'm sure we're all ready to take. And we have to call on the world to be with the killer and the executioner, with the country that's making genocide in the neighbouring country, and ready to do, according to its chief, the whole world can "repeat" never again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u41	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u42	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Now, in the agenda of the Supreme Council, there will be a series of draft laws that envision the denunciation of a number of contracts under the so-called SND with the Russian Federation. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of each of these bills, because, first of all, we think that an organization like the Commonwealth of Independent States was a dead-born organization from the first second of its creation. This is an organization that was to replace the Soviet Union, the prison of the nations. It's an organization that's going to continue to dominate Russia over post-Soviet space. Therefore, our position should be clear: there should be no participation in any treaty of the Commonwealth of Independent States of the Ukrainian State. Our path is the European Union, our path is integration into NATO. But not the SND and any other alliances made by the aggressor of the Russian Federation. The same applies to contracts directly with the Russian Federation. If the state has breached the great friendship and cooperation agreements and the recognition of borders, in a bold manner starting a war in the twenty-first century against Ukraine with all the weapons it has, and threatening nuclear weapons, what other agreements could there be for any kind of cooperation? I don't know when it's going to come back and when it's going to be a normal relationship with Russia. But at this point, no relationship with the aggressor country has to be and all of Parliament's agreements have to be deratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one else wants to speak? I ask you to prepare for the vote. Also, please, Aresonkov Vladimir Juryovich, and then we will proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, the Chamber of Deputies, undoubtedly supports the thoughts expressed by our previous colleagues. In fact, everything has to be done at a certain historical stage according to reality. And today the Russian Federation as an aggressor state is doing everything to destroy those institutions, those works that have been in many ways and in many areas, including education, science. And it is quite clear that those works are shared between the National Academy of Sciences of our State and the Russian Academy, and they need to be reviewed today. And we support the position that we need to break these agreements and want to go to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, I've been asked yet, National Deputy Lukashev. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. Please take your seats. Please, Lukashev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u46	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, well, there really can't be two thoughts about this vote, because, well, first of all, there can't be any cooperation and relationship with Russia after 24 February this year, after Butchi and Mariupol there can't be any contact at all. Moreover, in fact, according to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the sectoral institutes of this cooperation, there was virtually no such thing. So this is how we synchronize the actual and legal plane of the same phenomenon. Well, two words for SND. Ukraine is the founding country, the founding State, but it wasn't. I never became a member because I didn't ratify the statute. So in that case, we really have to support all these votes, and that's what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we are moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt as a whole the bill on suspending the operation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on scientific and technical cooperation (registration No. 0149). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a bill on termination. No, no, I said "stop." What are you, "stopping"? The end of the line. I'll read it again. Draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Scientific and Technical Cooperation (Registration No. 0149). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:00]] For 305 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we further agreed on the rest of the regulations of an international character and certain laws without discussion. So I'm going to immediately make the decision that's being proposed. Dear colleagues, 0155 is a draft of the Act on the Ratification of Agreement No. 1 in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Agreement on Political Cooperation, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. I'm going to make an offer to take it as a whole. Once again, we now adopt, as a whole, the draft Law on the Ratification of Agreement No. 1 in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Agreement on Political Cooperation, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Registration No. 0155). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:29]] For 301 Decision taken. Next we have the draft law on the withdrawal from the Development Cooperation Agreement and the use of mobile steel systems (registration No. 0093). We have also agreed to vote on this issue on the basis and as a whole, so I propose to adopt as a whole the draft law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on Co-operation in Development and the Use of Capital Mobile Communications Systems (registration No. 0093). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:17]] For 305 Decision taken. The next project is the draft law on Ukraine's withdrawal from the Agreement on the Establishment of an Inter-State Reserve of Biomedicines and Other Substances for the Protection of Animals in the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States (Registration No. 0103). Dear colleagues, we have also agreed to accept it as a basis and as a whole, so I propose to adopt it as a basis and as a whole the draft law on the withdrawal of the Agreement on the Establishment of an Inter-State Reserve of Biochemistry and Other Instruments for the Protection of Animals in the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States (Registration No. 0103). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:14]] For 309 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next. The following is the draft law on the withdrawal of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Intergovernmental Fieldmark Connection (registration No. 0141). My colleagues and I also agreed to accept as a basis and generally without discussion. Therefore, I propose to adopt as a whole the draft law on the withdrawal from the Protocol to Amend the Agreement on the Intergovernmental Federation Connection (registration No. 0141). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:03]] For 309 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next, this is the draft law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on the Support and Development of Small Business in SND States (0147). We also agreed to accept it as a basis and generally without discussion. Therefore, I propose to adopt as a whole the draft law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on the Support and Development of Small Business in SND States (registration No. 0147). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:47]] For 307 Decision taken. We have a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the governments and parliaments of foreign states on the termination of agreements with the aggressor country of the Russian Federation on the avoidance of double taxation (registration number 7430). My colleagues and I also discussed that we are voting today, including it in the agenda, and accepting it as a whole without discussion. So I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session the Bill Rule 7430. People's deputies, please vote. First, let's put it into the order of the day session. [[13:12:37]] For 306 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Governments and parliaments of foreign states on the termination of agreements with the aggressor country of the Russian Federation on the avoidance of double taxation (registration number 7430). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:12]] For 306 Decision taken. Let's move on. The next draft of the Order is 7,450. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on violations by the Russian Federation of international treaties and conventions and on the inadmissibility of transferring children of Ukrainian citizens abducted and forcibly deported to the aggressor State, other countries or within occupied territories of Ukraine, to the family of Russian citizens (registration number 7450). We also agreed without discussion, we include it in the agenda, and we accept it as a whole. So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session the Bill Rule 7450. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:15]] For 312 Decision taken. Next, my dear colleagues, I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, the United Nations International Court of Justice in The Hague, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on violations by the Russian Federation of international treaties and conventions and on the inadmissibility of transferring children — Ukrainian citizens — abducted and forcibly deported to the aggressor State, other countries or within occupied territories of Ukraine, to the family of Russian citizens (registration No. 7450). People's deputies, please, we vote in favour of adoption as a whole with the necessary technical legal amendments. Please vote. [[13:15:07]] For 309 Decision taken. Next, we agreed without discussion. Bill 7417. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. We also vote for inclusion in the agenda and for acceptance as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. So, dear colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill amending the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. Bill 7417. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:46]] For 310 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (registration number 7417) as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[13:16:23]] For 313 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7432. We agreed, too, without discussion. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of taxation by the military assembly of military personnel and other persons who participate directly in hostilities under military conditions. We agreed not to discuss it. Let's put it in the agenda and vote on the basis as a whole. So first. I'm proposing to include Bill 7432 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:10]] For 312 Decision taken. Next, I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of taxation by the military community of military personnel and other persons who participate directly in hostilities in conditions of martial law (registration number 7432). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:50]] For 314 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, 7459. We agreed, too, without discussion. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to impose restrictions on the importation and distribution of publishing products in relation to the aggressor State, the Republic of Belarus, the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. I'm proposing to include Bill 7459 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:31]] For 310 Decision taken. Next, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the establishment of restrictions on imports and distribution of publishing products relating to the aggressor State, the Republic of Belarus, the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:07]] For 306 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Further, dear colleagues, we have 7273, 7273-1, 7273-d, and we have agreed without discussion. So, first of all, I'm going to make an offer to include in the order of the day's session the laws 7273, 7273-1, 7372-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:50]] For 310 Decision taken. Now, taking into account the committee's decision, I'm proposing to adopt a bill of 7273-d as a whole, this is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on support for national music products and restricting the public use of the aggressor State's music product. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:20:30.]] For 303 Let's see the factions. Please, "yes," I said. The decision was adopted and the law was passed in general. 303, I think it was a pro. Let's move on, dear fellows. The law is passed in general. The next bill we agreed on without discussion is Bill 7328. Draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Law on Public Procurement and other laws of Ukraine on the improvement of the system of public procurement and public procurement proceedings. I propose to include this issue in the agenda of the daily session of Bill 7328. Please vote. [[13:21:24]] For 297 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, we agreed without discussion on the basis and in general. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Law on Public Procurement and other laws of Ukraine on the improvement of the system of public procurement and public procurement as regards the procedure for the review of complaints (project registration number 7328). Once again, we are voting for acceptance as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:09]] For 293 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We still have drafts for the second reading, but we agreed that they would not be amended. So Bill 7293, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Vocational and Technical Education on specific aspects of the training of skilled workers in conditions of martial law and economic recovery. There is a proposal to accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Vocational (Professional and Technical) Education on specific aspects of the training of qualified workers in conditions of military status and economic recovery (registration No. 7293). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:17]] For 306 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the following law, we have also agreed without discussion, this is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine to encourage the development of the Ukrainian Bookkeeping and Distribution. It was an offer to accept in the second reading and in general. I therefore propose, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to encourage the development of Ukrainian books and distribution (project registration number 6287). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:07]] For 314 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. So another question that we agreed on without discussion is 7337, that's the second reading. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 52 of the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons on Improving Pension Payment Orders. We said no one would insist. I can put it on. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons on the Improvement of Remuneration Procedures (project number 7337). Once again, we accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please vote. [[13:25:18]] For 314 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7325. They also said that there is a potential for acceptance in general. No one's gonna be, right? Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of education on the settlement of specific issues of educational activity in the context of the state of war (registration number 7325). We accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:05]] For 313 Decision taken. Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we have two questions and one vote. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I'm reporting on the creation of the Ninth Interfractional United States Strategic Partnership in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected by Ukraine’s national deputies Tarasenko Taras Petrovich, Sharaszkin Andrija Andriyovich, and Mjalik Viktor Niciporovich. And the next IFO is, too, according to article 60 prime. Rules, "For the free Caucasus." The National Deputy of Ukraine, Hončarenko Alexiyovich, was elected head of this association. Welcome, colleagues. Therefore, we have voted accordingly on many drafts in general, so I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council should immediately sign the bills adopted by the Supreme Council as a whole and send them to the President of Ukraine for signature. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[13:27:17]] For 302 Decision taken. Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, we still have two questions, this is the first reading, this is where we agreed with the discussions, and this is it for today. Therefore, honourable colleagues, 7310, are the draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of the establishment of legal facts under conditions of war or state of emergency. Dear colleagues, I propose to include Bill 7310 in the agenda of the day. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:28:13]] For 309 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:28:35]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, with a report or two for, two for, two for, against, how did they agree? From the report? Okay, then I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy, Babi Roman Vejacheslavovich, to report. I understand you're both from the authors and the committee, right? Please, in four minutes, and that's how much you're going to bet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u50	Good afternoon, colleagues! Your view is on the proposal of a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of the establishment of legal facts under conditions of war or state of emergency (No. 7310). What's this bill about? I would like to remind you that we have a special order of conduct in matters of establishing birth and death in a temporarily occupied territory. This order makes it easier for citizens to have access to justice and to obtain a court decision that they need and that is important to them in this category of cases. The relief is that you can go to any court, you can get immediate execution, and the decision is sent by the court to the civil registry office. It is suggested that this special order should be extended to areas where there is a state of war or emergency, that is, to facilitate access for citizens, including those who are internally displaced, to resolve these cases, to obtain the necessary judicial decision and to facilitate its execution. Why it's important in today's conditions, I don't think we need to convince you. It is undeniable that the horrendous and tragic shootings by the occupying civilians, the tortures that caused the death, the discovery of mass graves. Evidence of these inhuman acts has been revealed to date for several months after the occupation, such as in the Kyiv region. There's information on the destruction of the bodies of dead civilians by the invaders of the Russian Federation to cover their crimes. Under such circumstances, it is clear that interested persons who are in most cases internally displaced and who have had to change their place of residence need to have easier access to such matters. Because such decisions depend on the continued status of these individuals and the possibility of receiving help. In the Committee’s consideration, some comments were made that it was more appropriate to introduce such a simplified order, not in all areas without excluding areas where the state of war had been introduced, but only in areas where hostilities were taking place in the front areas. So before the second reading in this section, the bill will be finalized. As a result of the draft bill, the Legal Policy Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth convened draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of the establishment of legal facts in terms of military or state of emergency (Registration No. 7310, 21 April 2022) and to adopt it on the basis of the first reading, taking into account the Committee's proposals, by shortening the deadline for amendments and proposals. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u51	Thank you, Roman Veacheslavovich. Dear colleagues, you have heard the essence of the law and the foundation of the committee. Please sign up: two for, two for the discussion. And then let's move on to making a decision. Please. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u52	I'm asking you to pass the word to my colleague Rostislav Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u53	Please, Rostislav Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u54	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the mechanism has become or is not the only way for people to quickly resolve the issues that are necessary, especially when it comes to confirming the birth of a child, confirming death in occupied areas, he justifies himself. And then it's perfectly logical to take the initiative to spread this mechanism. But I'm pointing out to you that, as always, the devil in detail, and you're going to have to seriously redraft this bill for second reading, especially in the context of what. Well, let's start by saying that the title is much wider than the questions that the bill decides. Many questions before defining areas, because modes are very different. And yet, in order for the judicial system to be overloaded with expansion throughout Ukraine, it is still necessary to very clearly distinguish the issues of temporarily occupied territories, the questions that are being asked. territories that have been liberated from occupation, and the rest of Ukraine's territory that is in a normal state, and then these issues can be resolved in the current order. And third, this is the question of the application of the judicial congregation. We also need to be very clear about what categories of citizens are entitled to the proposed relief. So we encourage you to redraft this bill for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u55	Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u56	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In general, the problem raised in the bill is extremely important and sensitive. And the "Paternity" team will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, and the second team will amend it to make it more balanced. In fact, there is now a problem with simplifying the registration or testifying to the fact of death. The only thing is that the bill does not provide for its operation in the individual territories of our country, and it will be valid during the war on its territory in Ukraine. We don't think that's right. Next thing. When we say that a citizen or an authorized person has the right to appeal to a court in any area of the court with the requirement of death, it is also a violation of at least three existing bills, including the Law on Judges and Judiciality in our State. These laws should also be amended. The next thing we're going to say about the cancellation of the duty after the application is made, we also have to make changes to the legislation in force. That's why we think that we're voting in the first "yes" and in the second, we're bringing in the remedies so that we can get it in the second reading and in general as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u57	Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, Trust Group. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u58	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the bill is really important because it deals with individual issues related to the gathering of facts, evidence in the process of pretrial investigation and in the court proceedings. And it really simplifies the order of birth or death of a person within an area of war or state of emergency. At the same time, we point out that the second reading needs to be more specific about individual issues, such as the term for listing other representatives and interested persons in the bill. Without this, the provision does not conform to the principle of legal certainty, which may result in its arbitrary treatment in the exercise of law. And of course, questions related to the payment of the court’s fees and the dismissal of the applicants. The norm is, in principle, appropriate, but it is necessary to define more clearly the complete category of cases that may be exempt from payment by the judicial congregation. In other words, the Trust MP group believes that the bill deserves attention. We're going to vote for him, the only thing, in the first reading, and the second reading, we need to settle these points that I've stressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of the establishment of legal facts in terms of war or state of emergency (project registration number 7310). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:21]] For 273 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I also propose to cut back on the proposal and amendments for the second reading of Bill 7310. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:49]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill and final to date 7398. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to provide civil protection requirements during planning and closure of territories. I propose to include Bill 7398 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:27]] For 271 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:40:48]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, with a report or two in favor, two in favour? Let's do two in a row, two in a row. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Please, National Deputy Vjatrović Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u60	Please give the floor to Sofia Romanovna Fedini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u61	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the faction of European Solidarity will support Bill 7398 on Civil Protection. However, I would like to highlight a few points. First moment. This was to be accepted when we actually faced the threat of full - scale Moscow aggression. And that means that we still had to do this by the end of last year, when our foreign partners were four months in a row, day after day alerted us to the danger, but someone didn't want to believe that there would be an invasion and not take any steps to prepare for security for our civilian population, I'm already talking about additional defenses for the building, especially in the north and south for the military. But the second point in this context that is somewhat dangerous, it needs our critical attention, is that the Ministry of Education and Science predicts that from September there will be offline learning for our schoolchildren. At the same time, statistics are published by the same department that only 8 percent of schools are provided by bomb shelters. I would very much like us to also put this issue under strict control, because the safety of schoolchildren is paramount, and we cannot risk their lives to carry out any orders. The next important point that I would like to stress is that not only the law but also the new state building standards are needed. The State must also ensure full control over the construction of the bomb shelters and also invest in their construction. And at the same time, the bomb shelters need a host, because without proper care, they turn into premises that are absolutely impossible to use. So let us approach this issue from every possible point of view for the greatest efficiency.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u63	The word is given to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of "Golos". Sussun Inna Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u64	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. My dear colleagues, we will certainly support this bill with a fraction, because the issue of child safety in schools, the issue of the safety of university students is critical, and we had to solve them in advance, but now at least at this time of the holiday, we have to talk about it. But at the same time, I want to point out that we need to take care not only of security, but also of our children, so that our young people can return to Ukraine. And you can't do that, you can't do that if you continue to make absolutely idiotic decisions that don't contribute to the return of Ukrainian students. I'll give you a few decisions that the Minosvets recently made. Decision one. Cancel the demands for our scientists to be published in adequate scientific journals. Is it that now, in wartime, it's so hard to defend the dissertation? There are no other priorities, is that all you had to do now? An absolutely shameful decision for Ukrainian students to say about one thing: Don't come back here, you'll be taught here by those who can't do a scientific publication properly. The second decision, which was made, is totally harmful for us to receive qualified medical care: to abolish the medical requirements. Tell me, how can we expect a student to score 100 points, and that's to figure out, to get 100 points on the entrance exam, you have to cross out one choice of answers, you have a choice of answer "b" and you get enough points to get into medicine. Will such a student then be able to learn and qualify and treat our children with you? No, he won't. You know what we're going to get as a result of this? That young people who really want to learn medicine, when they see it all, will say, no, we will stay in Europe, where they offer us adequate education and where we can really get a qualification. This is the kind of decision that our young people will never return to Ukraine, and this decision needs to be reviewed immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-06-19-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to invite the national MPs, let's move on to the decision-making process. I make a proposal, honourable colleagues, to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to provide for civil protection requirements during the planning and construction of territories (project registration number 7398). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:46:53]] For 271 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one more suggestion: to cut off half the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to provide civil protection requirements during the planning and construction of areas (registration No. 7398). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:27]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. We're not closing our plenary session. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. With us is the truth, God is with us! Together to victory! Glory to Ukraine!
