ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary meeting, I would like to highlight the need for unwavering compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. I ask all national MPs, representatives of the government, to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, a recess will be announced in the plenary and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Dear National Deputies, the Supreme Council is working in a single plenary session, so today, according to the decree adopted by us, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war" and the proposal of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good parliamentary tradition, let's start with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has been the tenth month since the Russian Federation waged a large-scale war against the Ukrainian State and has carried out constant terrorist attacks against our people. In defeating the battlefield, the Racist army continues to fight against critical infrastructure. The aggressor does not realize that his crimes and attempts to frighten and break us are futile. The endless love of the Ukrainians for the Fatherland, the belief in a happy European democratic future, the confidence in our Armed Forces is the great power that no evil enemy can speed up. At such a critical time, despite the insidious attacks of terrorists, our professional energies and railways, utility workers, firefighters, and doctors honor each other, and all concerned citizens help one another together. Our heroic defence forces move forward every day, exterminating Russian invaders and liberating Ukrainian cities and villages. Sadly, our protectors, protectors, and peaceful compatriots die in this terrible war. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of all our heroes and heroes who have fallen for Ukraine and of all the innocent victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, November 30th, the German Bundestag, by a majority of votes, declared the Holodomor of 1932-1933 to be the genocide of the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Similar decisions were recently made by our colleagues from Ireland, Moldova, and Romania. Let us also thank them. [[Applause]] On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, we express our sincere gratitude to our fellow parliamentarians for adopting such important decisions at the legislative level for the Ukrainian people. Justice always prevails. Together, we will bring Russia to justice, history, and economic responsibility for all crimes committed against the Ukrainian nation. On this day, December 1, 1991, the Ukrainian people in the U.S. referendum strongly supported the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act. More than 90 percent of citizens have adopted the long - standing desire of Ukrainians to live in a sovereign and independent state. Let us applaud those who joined the Ukrainian nation-building process during that period and those who work tirelessly every day after three decades for the sake of our victory and regain the freedom and territorial integrity of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is also the day of the prosecutor’s day. In wartime, prosecutors not only defend the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, the interests of the state, but also investigate the war crimes committed by the State-terrorist, do everything they can to ensure that Russian criminals are brought to justice and punished. On behalf of the Supreme Council, we wish all the officials of the Procurator’s Office strong health, devoted service to the law, and justice for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. Let me remind you that by holding the sensor button, you have to press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare. I'm calling for a vote. Please take part in it. [[12:11:04]] For 203 203 in, 6 in, 1 in. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask, let's all take our seats. Dear colleagues, let's re-vote, because I see something that someone is voting. Someone's taking part, someone's not taking it. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I want to remind you that for convenience the seats of the national deputies are marked by their names, their names and their father's. Please take your seats. Let's go back to the vote. Dear colleagues, ready for a signal vote? Ready. Once again, I ask you to take part in the signal vote, Your Honor. [[12:12:29]] For 222 222, 6 against, 3 against. Well, 226 is, we see. Dear colleagues, the only thing I'm asking you is that our day of work starts when it starts. And that means from this point on, I'm asking everyone to be in their seats. It's not about those who are in their seats right now, it's probably about those who aren't in their seats right now. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council has been given to you. I think we can move on to the day-to-day issues. While we have agreed that the vast majority of issues today will also go in the form of general agreement. So it's very important that you take your seats now and get ready for the vote. Dear colleagues, we're starting with two ratifications. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, first question. Draft Act on the cessation and withdrawal of the Convention on Legal Assistance and Legal Relations in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters and the Protocol to the Convention on Legal Assistance and Legal Relations in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters of 22 January 1993 (Registration No. 0163). On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to consider the matter without discussion. Dear colleagues, once again, please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act on Cessation of Action and the withdrawal from the Convention on Legal Assistance and Legal Relations in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters and the Protocol to the Convention on Legal Assistance and Legal Relations in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters of 22 January 1993 (registration No. 0163). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Ready to vote?Oh, my God! I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:15:34]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we also agreed, without discussion, to vote on the next bill 0172. This is a draft of the Law on the Elimination of Warnings of Ukraine to the Convention on the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft and the Convention on the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law registration number 0172. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:16:28]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is not discussed either, is the 8251 draft. Draft Decision on the release of Kubrakov O.M. from the Ukrainian Minister of Infrastructure. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer to accept the entire draft Order on the Liberation of Kubrakov O.M. from the post of Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, registration number Order 8251. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:17:14]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next draft of Decree 8252. Wait a minute, I've got a separate lead here. Dear colleagues! Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received a statement from the National Deputy of the Republic of Ukraine, Volodymyrina, on the submission of parliamentary powers in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Rules Committee considered the application. The opinion is given to the head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Sergio Vitaliovich Calchenka. We agreed not to discuss it. So let's move right on to the decision. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine have put to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna, in connection with her personal application for the appointment of a deputy. People's deputies, please vote. This is a draft of Decree 8252 on the permanent termination of the powers of the People's Deputies of Ukraine of Ljovczany U.V. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:19:03]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Wait a second. The next is 8229, a draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's declaration on the recognition of the Russian regime as terrorist, the illegality of the Russian Federation's presence in the United Nations and its reform, the responsibility of members of the Russian political parties that support aggression. I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session Project Registration No. 8229. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:19:57]] For 288 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. We agreed that each faction and group would be given the right time to discuss, but we should vote on the simplified procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:20:26]] For 241 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, this is another political but very important decision. First of all, I want to thank you for the initiative and for the great work done by our colleagues. This is both Dmitri Nataluha and Alona Skrum and other colleagues who have also joined the lobbying of this good issue. So today we want to vote on a number of important issues. First. It's a petition for recognition of the Russian regime as terrorist. We've already voted for Russia's terrorist state, the sponsor of the terrorist, and now we're talking about the regime. The other one. This is a reference to the exclusion of the Russian Federation from the United Nations and its organs. And the third. This is a question related to the responsibility of members of Russian political parties who support aggression. Dear colleagues, I am very much asking that we unite around this decision. Because today the only way the Russian Federation is in today's world is through complete isolation and complete intransigence, and the unscrupulousness of it as an object of international relations. Because those who violate world order do not have the right to sit at one table with others. Today the world is divided into civilization and barbarism, and we must, as representatives of civilization, stand on the sharp issue of the struggle for civilizational democratic values, say our position. So I urge Parliament as the only legislative body to accept this political statement and to do everything to ensure that the Russian Federation has no place at any table where decent civilized people participate. Therefore, dear colleagues, I ask you to support and praise Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u4	Please sign up for one person from factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u5	Please, Nina Petrovn Jujanin, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u7	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u8	Addressing the world community to condemn the Moscow federation as a terrorist state, to expel it from the United Nations -- that's all very positive and nice initiatives. But why does the Ukrainian State continue to support terrorists and their herds inside the Ukrainian State? What do I mean? We all banned promoskovsky activities together.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u9	Increase to 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u10	We all voted together to ban the pro-Moscow political forces. But as a result, the MPs who were elected from these parties are calmly sitting on boards of different levels, but that most are engaged in subversive anti-government activities. In particular, I'm referring to the fifth column of the Supreme Council, which is responsible for Moscow's aggression, Moscow's invasion, so that somehow they're not drawn to responsibility, they're not deprived of mandates, but it turns out, with the majority fraction, according to faction leaders, they have constructive cooperation. I'm sorry, but it's not cooperation, it's total frost. At local levels, we have a situation where members of the pro-Moscow parties block the processes of decommunization, decolonization, support all of Moscow's narratives and feel calm. But I also remember the church today for nothing. There wasn't just one in this room. A bill was passed in 2018 that requires the Moscow Church to call the Moscow Church, not the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of some patriarchate. Unfortunately, this bill has been blocked for four years, blocked at the level of the Constitutional Court, although this issue was to be considered within four months. That's why we're demanding a consolidated position of Parliament and the Ukrainian State, which is exactly what this position is for us to unlock this bill as quickly as possible, so that the Moscow Church is clearly called the Moscow Church and that the people who are still going to this church understand that they are supporting the church of the aggressor country and that their contributions are, in fact, going to finance aggression in Ukraine and the killing of Ukrainians by the Moscow Federation. And so we demand that laws be voted on as soon as possible to deprive the Moscow Church of its property in Ukraine. Because they continue to report on Ukrainian military forces today, they continue to sow promoskovo narratives, and if they are not stopped now, we can eventually get a situation conducive to the return of Moscow's influence in the country. So what I'm asking is, when we ask our foreign colleagues to condemn the Moscow Federation, let's clear Ukraine of the Fifth Column, which is trying to cook something here.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u11	Thank you, Sofia Romanovna. Jaroslav Železniak, Voice. Jaroslav Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u12	The only chance for the United Nations not to repeat the fate of its predecessor, the League of Nations, is to react in time. In its time, the League of Nations was unable to respond adequately to a border review and Germany began to review the First World War agreements. There is now a chance to avoid the third world in just one case: when international organizations do not express deep concern, they will actively oppose the aggressor. And in this case, to exclude Russia from the UN for violating all possible international treaties is an adequate response. To change the decision-making procedure, there can be no consensus with the inclusion of a country that most adequate UN countries have already recognised as either a sponsor of terrorism, or a terrorist country, to exclude this procedure as a mandatory one too. So as a country that protects the West, we have a reasonable demand to exclude Russia from the UN. So far, in principle, there is doubt that the United Nations is performing its function. That's why we're voting. Please support the entire hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u13	Please, "Serve the people, Schwatzko. Who's with the "Serve of the People"? Oh, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u14	Comrades, good afternoon. I'm not going to exaggerate when I say that the whole world in the person of the European Parliament, the entire civilized world, the Western, the European world has recognized Russia as a terrorist state and the state as a sponsor of terrorism. So I have a question: Who is the Russian delegation to the United Nations? They represent a terrorist. Can we imagine an organization that is called upon to provide security, responsibility, and peace in the world as a representative of terrorists? This is the same as the Taliban, Hezbollah, or Hamas would take up a chair in the United Nations. It's just something surreal, you can't imagine. That's why, from the first days of the war, if not before, organizations like the Civil Hub, the initiatives of public, legal, including our colleagues, we do our utmost to correct this greatest deception in the history of diplomacy. The greatest deception since the first day of his birth after the collapse of the Soviet Union has no legal basis for being in the United Nations as a member and as such in the United Nations Security Council. Nevertheless, they abuse the veto they have exercised more than 143 times, more than all other members of the United Nations Security Council as a whole. This is an unprecedented situation, and this decision is called upon to put an end to it, colleagues. The second story that is regulated by this regulation is the political parties of the Russian Federation that have actually allowed this war to begin. The fact that today the entire civilized world and the Ukrainian Armed Forces are trying to bring Russia back to its internationally recognized borders is the result of the vote in the State Duma of the Russian Federation by all parties supporting this war, the permission to introduce the Russian army into the territory of another sovereign state. It's not just about Ukraine, it's the same thing in Georgia, and so we think that these parties should be compared to the Nazi-Socialist Third Reich party, to the Fascist Mussolini party, to the regime of French collaborationism, and to other parties that should be banned and compared to terrorist groups. So, colleagues, please support this very important decision and thank you all for joining in its formation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, Trust Group. Paul Andryovich. Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished electorate, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, when a State invades the land of neighbors in the 21st century, killing the worse, killing the peaceful population, the mothers, the children, that State is clearly a terrorist. That is why Russia is a terrorist, and this should be said to the whole world loudly, and every time. The fact that they are killing the peaceful population is unacceptable. And at the same time, they are represented at the UN, and Russia still has the power to veto any UN decision. This is totally unacceptable and you have to put a dot on it. And actually today, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine recognizes Russia as a terrorist state and calls upon the international community to understand and separate themselves from this terrorist state, you and I also need to complete inside our country this whole process of cleansing from these terrorist roots, which are being launched from the Kremlin into various spheres of our Ukrainian life. First of all, terrorism in religion, poppies in the crowds are terrorists, they impose their terrorist opinion on our Ukrainians. This should be rid of, and it should be stopped. We also need to understand with you about media terrorism, especially about those propagandists who told us a lot about the history of the Russian world, and they also need to be rid of those roots. And what's important is that another root of the Kremlin is here, in politics, people -- people, actually, the so-called Fifth Column, of the forbidden political parties. Anything needs to be done to ensure that they do not take part in political life, both in this room and in other local governments. In fact, by taking all these steps and by supporting the international community, Ukraine will win, and our Armed Forces will win. Praise the Armed Forces! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u17	Thank you, Pavel Andryovich. Please, "Platform for Life and Peace" Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We are no doubt grateful to the world for Ukraine’s support in all its dimensions. We understand that the unprecedentedness and magnitude of this war has led to a degree of international legal system, many international organizations and bodies because of the lack of a legal basis for the use of effective sanctions. And this applies, in particular, to the recognition of Russia as a sponsor of terrorism and punishment for war crimes. All the resolutions of respected institutions are, unfortunately, still political. But every minute of war takes the life of a particular Ukrainian. It's too high a price to pay for the long-term search by international organizations for the necessary formulations. Not selective attacks on civilian infrastructure, executions, mass killings, torture, threats to the use of nuclear weapons by a Russian aggressor are outright violations of the United Nations Statute. Our diplomats are no doubt doing their utmost to deprive Russia of membership in any international organization. And our task today is to support them as much as possible, to give additional arguments. Nonsence, in my opinion, with Russia's abuse of the veto at the UN Security Council, is something that can be prevented, given the argument that the United Nations Statute of the United Nations provides for the Soviet Union, not the RF as a member of the organization. No changes have been made since the 91st year. Thus, it is possible to freeze Russia’s membership in the United Nations at this time. And history knows such examples as South Africa. The international isolation of Russia, the search for ways to provide collective security, not just for Ukraine's defence security, is undoubtedly one of the ways to win. We vote unanimously for this appeal and believe that the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be heard and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u19	Please, Labazuk Sergey Petrovich, MP's Party for the Future. Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Dear colleagues, allow us to go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, Pope Roman Francis I called the Ukrainians a nation of martyrdom. 90 years ago, the then totalitarian regime of the Soviet Union committed genocide against the Ukrainian nation, trying to wipe it from the face of the earth. And then he couldn't do it. Ukraine has reborn and has chosen its independence. Russia’s desire has not changed to this day. The desire to secure, destroy, wipe off the face of the earth is characterized by the essence and present totalitarian regime of Putin, which repeats genocide, wiping out the city’s land and populated areas, striking critical infrastructures, seeking to pin millions of Ukrainian citizens on cold and hunger. We are grateful to the partner countries that have recognized the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. Yesterday, as we know, the 21st country, Germany, joined the list by a decision of the Bundestag. Likewise today, we thank countries that recognize Russia as a terrorist or terrorist promoter of terrorism, a sponsor of terrorism, which is the same concept. What does this decree foretell? Not only is it a violation of the legitimacy of the Russian Federation’s presence in the United Nations, a restriction on its veto power as a permanent member of the Security Council through UN reform. We want to say that the UN is either going to internal reforms, or it's going to have the fate of the League of Nations dissolved after World War II, because it can't be a terrorist, an aggressor country, a country that has challenged human civilization, that doesn't value life as an apiori, that threatens the world's nuclear weapons, that cannot sit in the UN, at the same time in the midst of those nations that care about world security and, in a sense, provide a guarantee, an international guarantee of this security. The world must change, protecting democratic values. We are grateful for the support that countries have been carrying out all this time in Ukraine, and we stress the need to systematically prepare an international tribunal for the leaders of the Russian Federation, for all those who today commit the crimes of The Hague or the second Nuremberg must be a terrible dream for every Russian involved in these atrocities, and for international partners to raise the point of irreversibility in this matter. Therefore, the question of Russia's responsibility is the responsibility of every citizen of the Russian Federation who supports this aggression. So Ukraine remembers. Ukraine will succeed. Ukraine will win. And Ukraine won't forgive. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u21	Heroic glory! Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich Nemira, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the "Fatherland" faction will support the draft decree and the corresponding appeal. But I think we should not be confined simply to the turn and turn of the line, the more that this decision, I think, is seriously delayed enough. The tenth month of war is coming, but only today is the Supreme Council addressing this appeal and the draft decree on the recognition of Russia as a State-terrorist and the call for radical reform of the United Nations. I think we need to move forward. The second question. The UN’s predecessor was the League of Nations. In the 39th year, when the Soviet Union fought an aggressive war against Finland, the Soviet Union was expelled from the League of Nations in the 40th year. Why, when Russia solved the war against Ukraine, which is, by the way, the founding State of the United Nations, why does Russia not only remain a member of the United Nations, but also a permanent member of the UN Security Council and abuse the system's veto? Why is Article 27 of the UN Statute not being implemented, which clearly states that when the Security Council considers matters and votes, a party to a conflict, if it takes part in this vote, including a permanent member of the Security Council, should abstain from voting? Why is the UN Statute and the official goal of the United Nations being violated, and this goal is to maintain and strengthen peace and international security? We continue to pretend that nothing is happening. So today it's an important step, but it's just a rhetorical step. What should we do about Ukraine? If we call for UN reform and, in particular, the Security Council, Ukraine and our Parliament should be here in front of us. They have to offer their vision, their specific proposals, a plan to reform the UN Security Council, the UN institutions in order to take away once and for all the aggressor country from impunity, and to prove, in the case of Putinian Russia, that international law is not a paper that is forgotten the next day when it was signed, but a real thing that saves people's lives. I urge you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of this draft decision, and we are moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to take into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Ordinance on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recognition of the Russian regime as terrorist, the illegality of the Russian Federation's presence in the United Nations Organization and its reform, the responsibility of members of the Russian political parties supporting aggression, the registration number of the 8229 draft. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:27]] For 314 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The factions. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich is with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u24	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear colleagues! Please make a proposal to the vote of the House, our discussion of Decree 8229, represented by the Chief of the Supreme Council and by representatives of all factions, must be shown in a teletarafon in the Council TV slot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? I'm putting Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov to the vote. Please have the people's deputies vote. [[12:45:25]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Then we're going to have a block without discussion, so please be in your seats, dear colleagues. Next, Bill 8230. This is a draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's application for energy terrorism by the Russian Federation. I propose to include this issue in the agenda of the daily session (8230). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:02]] For 307 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Statement on Energy Terrorism of the Russian Federation (registration No. 8230). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:33]] For 314 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. The following is 5196: a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of corruption in state enterprises, institutions and organizations of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. I propose to accept, as a whole, the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Regulation No. 5196. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:17]] For 264 Decision taken. Next order, draft Decree 8234. This is a draft decree on the preliminary report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the death (murder) of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Poland, Anton Eduardoovich. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to draft Decree No. 8234. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:59]] For 307 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next project, Rule 8248. This is a draft of the 2022 Appointment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Young Scientists — Doctors of Science. We agreed, too, without discussion. So I'm proposing to accept, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order on Assignment in 2022 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Young Scientists – Doctors of Science (registration No. 8248). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:46]] For 313 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next project we have is the proposal of President 6101 of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, before your consideration, the proposals by the President of Ukraine for the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on enhancing the efficiency of economic operators (registration No. 6101) are proposed. The President's proposals were made to you. We agreed on the Conciliation Council to address this issue without discussion, so we move on to the vote on the proposal proposed by the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the President's vote is number one. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:45.]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the proposal by the President of Ukraine has been accepted. Let's move on to the voting of the law as a whole. In accordance with article 135 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine of the Law on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to increase the efficiency of economic operators (registration No. 6101). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:50:30.]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Next project, Rule 8211: the Puckan V.V. Liberation Order. from the office of the Head of the Court of Auditors. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. According to article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be released from office as Head of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. [[12:51:25]] For 225 Decision taken. Out of procedure, Brainy, please. Smart. Then Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u26	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, please pay attention! First of all, there was a statement yesterday, or the day before yesterday, that Paccan had a motion to withdraw his previous statement. This time. Two. The decision that is being made today does not even correspond to the first statement that was made, for there was the making up of credentials from the Head of the Court of Auditors. Today’s draft decree refers to the resignation of both the Head and the member of the Court of Auditors. So, first of all, as far as I know, he wasn't allowed into the hall. I'd like to ask the chairman to question Mr. Packan's report and allow him to speak. This time. And two, Your Honor, if there's a vote, I highly recommend that you all simply do not vote for it, not for it, not for it, not for it, not for it, not for it, not for it, because it will be an offence for which everyone will have to be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u27	Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I would then like to ask you, when you're taking the procedure, to report, not on the substance of the matter, but on a case-by-case basis. You know the rules, don't you? So I'd like to ask you more by procedure. Julia Volodymyrna, by procedure alone. Because right now we're going to have a discussion: two for, two for, two for. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, speaking of procedure, frankly, in this room it's kind of embarrassing, because all procedures are long gone. But by procedure, you don't have the right to make this decision right now, because Mr. Packan withdrew his application. That's the first thing I want to draw your attention to. By procedure, you have no right at all. And the second. Please tell me, when did the Supreme Council turn into a fortress that cannot be passed by a man who must now appear on the rostrum? Did you know that Paccana was banned from the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council? So I ask you, Mr. Head, to explain right now why Valérie Paccan has not been admitted to the Supreme Council, to this Hall, and why he is not given the floor to explain why this liberation is taking place and why his second statement is being ignored.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u29	Thank you. Julia Volodymyr, that's the same point I'd like to make. If you're taking the procedure, let's do it the way you want it. And the second. As far as questions are concerned. Dear colleagues, do you want to hear the answer or do you want to yell just at me? I don't think it's gonna work. So I'd like to ask you, if there's a question of a report from the head of the accounting office, there's going to be a report. Now there is a question voted by the Conciliation Council. So we're going to look at it. He'll get the votes -- there'll be a result, there'll be no vote. Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Lunchenko Valeriy Valeriovich, MP's "Trust". Please. Who's it gonna be? Paul Andriovich Bakunets, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. Of course, you and I understand very well how acute the discussion is, as it is in this room, is no longer the first meeting around this issue, and in principle, our society as a whole. You and I are well aware that a person has been admitted to work by two votes, and he is released by one vote. I think there's going to be a lot of thoughts here, and everyone's going to have their own truth. So let us hope that the Hall will make a decision today according to how each of you feels necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u31	Thank you. Please give the word to Leon Aleksandrovitch, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Gevko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u33	Please, National Deputy Gevko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the decision was considered by the committee and was supported. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u36	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u37	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, Ukraine is currently fighting on the fronts for a democratic European country in which procedures are followed, the Constitution, the laws. I want to tell you that I've seen a lot of things in this room, and I keep seeing it, but it's kind of like today, frankly, it's hard to even imagine. The man withdrew his claim because he wrote his first statement under pressure because he was actually removed, the Head of the Accounts, from this office, because he was uncomfortable because he was controlling it because he was investigating it and because each report was objective and covered up what the authorities might want to hide in the financial sphere. That's why he's being filmed. It's taken completely wrong of his statement. Did anyone tell you he called off the application? Nobody. And what's more, what's completely overshadowing our struggle for democracy is that when a man came to the Supreme Council today, Mr. Packan wanted to come in and explain from this rostrum and he wasn't released to the Supreme Council. The MPs tried to carry him out, but they wouldn't let him join the Supreme Council. Tell me, is this democracy? Is this freedom? Are these people's rights? What are we fighting for? I don't want my country to associate with such a parliament, with such a violation of the laws, the Constitution and human rights, with such pressure, with fraud. And I'm sure most people in this room don't agree with that either. And so I ask you not to vote for this ruling today. Invite Valery Paccan here, get an explanation, understand the situation, and then press the green buttons. I hope Parliament understands me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u39	The word is given to Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Dear colleagues, this is the final speech, and then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u40	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, you know, I met the House of Accounts when there was a very difficult situation with one of the state-owned enterprises that stole money through one of the gears. There was nothing anyone could do about it, either the S.H.I.E.L.D. or the N.A.U.S. In two weeks, thanks to a powerful job, she found everything: the numbers of the accounts that she counted, who gave the orders -- and she passed it on to the law enforcement authorities. Similarly, although under pressure, a large number of account members continue to work now. And as for this vote, I can honestly say, you know, I go out to the rostrum and sometimes I just quote things. Why can't we vote for it? But objectively you can't, because I don't know why it's happening, I can just, you know, fantasize, but there's a crime going on. First of all, we have to thank whoever created the electronic documentary system, because when the Council says they didn't have any withdrawals, bar code and departure date, it all went away. It's the first time I've ever seen one. The other one. If he is to be removed from his head, why the decree to remove the members of the Court of Auditors? It's the other one. It's not a dead end anymore, it's a crime. That's why, you know, I don't think making decisions like the Supreme Council of Ukraine at all, a country that's struggling with an aggressor today, because it has to be true, there has to be order. And when the silencer takes some semi-criminal stuff, you know, I don't want to be an accomplice to it and I urge you not to be either, just don't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Let's move on to the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm making an offer. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm proposing to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the Puckan V.V. Liberation Order. from the office of the Head of the Court of Auditors (register No. 8211). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:02:55]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show the factions, please. Let's move on. Next. Next project, Rule 0176. This is a draft of the Ratification Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Julia Volodymyrna is a procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to put the vote to the vote so that the discussion of this issue will be shown on the marathon in the "Ray" channel slot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u43	I'm betting on Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko's offer. Please be sure. [[13:03:54]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u44	By factions, let's see. The factions!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u45	Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the buttons didn't work and so on -- we don't vote. They voted as they voted. Dear colleagues, this is a dot. Let's move on. 0176. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikola. All right, let's move on, okay? Next draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Austria on Economic Cooperation in Project Development (0176). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:04:54]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Please sign up: two in, two in. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u47	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u48	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I will immediately say, "European solidarity" will not support this decision. Let me explain why. This is a 25 - billion - dollar loan that Ukraine is taking in too much time to build two hospitals and a rehabilitation center in Austria and take them into office for five years. But when the minister of health reported this to the members of the Conciliation Council, we began to ask him questions, and under what conditions the loan, well, is a tax, non-debt. Because one thing is the grant money that really helps us build hospitals right now, the other is when we take credit. We didn't get any answers. We didn't get any answers. I mean, to be honest, I'd even appreciate it if someone told us this terrible secret and told us what percentages of this loan are taken and what's inside. Another story. Our colleagues are going to talk about this, but the company that's the condition of lending this loan, that's to understand, we're ratifying the personal name of the company, the business company that's going to do it. It's for you to understand why it's because of the Supreme Council. Yeah, well, to her there were some claims in the past, I think colleagues will tell you more about it. And the third. You know, I was very alert when the European Integration Committee, having received new information on this loan regarding this company, decided to reconsider this issue, this consideration was blocked. And given the three points that I said, once again, I'm not going to vote for it myself. And I'm honestly asking you, too, probably not to support it, or to hear an explanation right now, that's what it is, in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u49	Thank you. Next up we've got someone, one second. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u50	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u51	Sergey Sobolev. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, since there were so many questions at the Conciliation Board yesterday, I think it would be appropriate to listen to the health minister with information on this loan. What surprises me more is the colleagues who voted in favour of the cut-off procedure. We didn't vote for that just to be able to ask questions and get all the answers that came up. So my offer remains valid. I would appeal to the hall because it is a question of credit that the Minister of Health or an authorized person from the Ministry would make it clear that we have objective information before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u54	As previous colleagues have said, I want to point out that this is not a grand – it's a loan, and we're going to have to pay it back. We don't know what percentages and what conditions. And the second question. We're nominally making a deal with the Austrian government, in fact, if you've read the decree, it's stated that we as a state guarantee that we actually make a deal with a private company. A private company already known in Ukraine, sadly known in Ukraine. In her time, she had placed baby incubators for Ohmatdit, in which, just notice, the babies did not fit in. And that's why these incubators are dead weights at Ohmatdit Hospital. Our colleagues, especially Mr. Getmants, were then on the board of oversight and heard this scandal. So I would like to be very clear about why we are making a commitment as a state in a company that has already failed us once, and we were not able to influence it in any way. Therefore, we will vote against it and we do not recommend ratifying it. And now it's procedural. As an anti-corruption committee, we had no opportunity to analyse this decision, which is wrong. The Medical Committee was unable to provide an analysis of this decision, which is also wrong. Colleagues, let's fail this determination and make sure we don't take on any liabilities for the fooflo next time, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, this is Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, the Platform for Life and Peace group. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote, please ask the National Deputies to take their seats. Nestor Ivanovich, from the place, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head and your distinguished colleagues. I don't think this bill needs much discussion. Of course, money for our children is needed to treat them, and other expenses are needed, which will be financed if the law is ratified. So please ratify it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this issue, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Austria on economic cooperation in project development (registration No. 0176). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:04]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The following Bills 8206, 8240. We agreed that we would unite them. Therefore, according to article 85, paragraph 19, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been appointed to serve as half of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. For your consideration are draft regulations of the number 8206 and 8240: changes in the composition of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, which are proposed to appoint members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, Borsukov Anatholia Zinovyevich and Szczerbakov Olen Anatoliyevna. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, it is proposed that these issues be consolidated. Is it accepted? Thank you. Dear colleagues, a proposal is made to deal with these issues in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:26]] For 235 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. The word is given for a report to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the financial, tax and customs policy of the Ukrainian National Deputy Daniel Alexander Gettmantsev. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich. After this: two in favour, two in favor, and two in a row. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I won't take much time, we've held an open competition on the committee on vacancies for members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. We've heard all the candidates, and we've chosen two of the candidates who we think are the best candidates for this position. They fully meet the requirements of legislation, the requirements of the National Bank Act, which are presented to candidates for appropriate positions and internships, and professional skills. Therefore, we ask that we support our decision and recommend it. and appoint these persons to serve as members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u59	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. I ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u60	Dear colleagues. I will not vote for the first or the second order. Let me explain why. Both Mr. Borsukov and Szczerbakova can be the best people there. But one was a deputy foreman of the National Bank, when he headed Savings Bank, the other, Mrs. Szczerbakova, was counsellor and head in the service of the Head of Savings, when Mr. Pishna headed Savings Bank, now he heads the NBA. And we're talking to two people who are directly connected to Nazbank's principal, and we're talking to an organ that's supposed to control how Nazbank works. Well, it's a bit of a conflict of interest. That's why we're going to abstain from both votes. To be honest, I'd like Nazbank to be the only one, really, to have a cool and independent institution like that. And not to do what we do with these two decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Signora Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u63	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I would still consider all the personnel issues more carefully, because please don't forget that on October 7th, the Supreme Council appointed the new head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please tell me during this time did you notice any changes in the work of the National Bank? Do you know of any changes in course or questions that were bothering us here in the hall? I mean those financial instruments that are now being used to fill our government budget. I don't understand why the National Bank hasn't started working with the Ministry of Finance yet. I don't understand why our military bonds haven't become available, popular, and demand-driven. Why it's new and new all the time. There's a new and new printing of money instead of real work to find tools for our citizens to just put our entrepreneurs into securities and it was interesting, it was mutual for both sides. It seems to me that the staff assignments that are currently taking place at the National Bank Board are properly stated that all the personnel involved are associated with the current Head of the National Bank. I think he's gathering a team to finally get to this job. If you, the majority who voted for these personnel changes, do not observe them, react quickly, we cannot continue to be in constant money printing and repayment, and restart the same securities. They don't use demand, like all the other recommendations that were once made have not yet been implemented by the National Bank. So to a new warehouse or an additional warehouse, an updated membership of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, I only want more decisive action. We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u65	Yes, please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u66	I think this question has already been discussed, and there have been appropriate representations. And in the light of all the circumstances, we must vote as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making decisions. I want to remind you that we will vote in turn for two rulings. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to take your seats. Dear colleagues, yes, let us move on to the decision of the first decision. According to section 19 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 10 of the Ukrainian Act "For the National Bank of Ukraine" put to the vote for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 8206) on changes in the composition of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Ready, fellows of honor? And so the vote is 8206, and I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[13:20:40]] For 233 Decision taken. According to section 19 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 10 of the Ukrainian Act "For the National Bank of Ukraine" put to the vote for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 8240) on changes in the composition of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Are you ready to vote 8240? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:19]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. It's been decided. Let's move on. The next one is going to be a series again. No, not low, one without discussion, 8241. This is a draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Improvement of Electronic Documentary Procedures in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Certain Issues of the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Conditions of Operation of the State of War (registration No. 8241). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:08]] For 239. Decision taken. I propose to define the bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the issue of Bill 8241 begins. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:36]] For 235 Decision taken. I propose to take the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the plenary today and to take a decision on this bill (8241). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:06]] For 230 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of documentation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on specific matters relating to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:42]] For 230 Decision taken. And it's final. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8241. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:08]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill, 8224. This is a draft of the National Minorities (Communitys) Act of Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:38]] For 269 Decision taken. I propose to define how urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the question begins to be considered, with respect to Bill 8224. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:25:06]] For 244 This isn't the end of the vote, my friends. I propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on a plenary session today and decide on Bill 8224. Please vote. [[13:25:35]] For 283 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure of 8224. Please vote. [[13:25:58]] For 252 To 253. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favor, two in favor, and we vote against, right? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Taras Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u69	Please, Taras Tarasenko. Taras, I think it would be right if you went to the center, because such a Euro-Integration Bill should be presented with pride and from the center. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u70	Colleagues, we have more than a hundred nations in Ukraine. Now in war conditions, they're all standing on defense of Ukraine, they all recognize themselves as Ukrainians, but at the same time they want to preserve their identity, their ethnicity. So that's what this law is about. We, as a state of Ukraine, must guarantee them this right, ensure that conditions are created so that each nation can develop and preserve its language, provide education in the language of national minorities, ensure communication with the authorities of the State and respect each other. We also foresee that citizens who violate Ukrainian laws on the rights of national minorities must be punished. And we also introduce the notion that the state of terrorism cannot be promoted. Therefore, I ask everyone today to vote in favour of this bill, it is an important step on Ukraine's path to integration into the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Fed Sofia Romanovna, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u72	Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr Váterovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u73	Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u74	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Given the importance of adopting this law, including the introduction of Ukraine into the European Union, we must be guided by two key principles. First of all, this law must be in line with the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, but first of all it must be in line with the National Constitution, the Ukrainian Constitution and the national interests of our State. Second, it has to harmonize with other laws, including the State Language Act. A fine example of compliance is the Law on the Root Nations that we have previously adopted. Regrettably, the authors of the minority bill have made much less progress. That's why "European Solidarity" is going to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, it's going to probably be preparing a lot of rights to the second. But we insist on the second reading of all inconsistencies with the Constitution and, in particular, with the Language Law, which unfortunately remains. Such inadequacies are in this bill. And first of all, it's unacceptable to try to put in the title and text of the law, let's say it's already in parentheses, a very strange term for "national communities." Even if President Zelensky once made such a statement that he said we don't have minorities, and we only have communities, that's no reason to destroy the legislative base. Because there are minorities in Ukraine, and there is nothing offensive about this term. Both the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine and European and international law contain a single and clear definition of "national minorities". There's no community there and there's not supposed to be any in this basic law. Therefore, it is important to refine it to a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u75	Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, I see. Please. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and we will vote afterwards. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will support this bill in the first reading. We consider it to be balanced, one that suits both national interests and the interests of the development of national minorities. While preparing for second reading, we would like to see the same standards that we set for national minorities in Ukraine act for the Ukrainian minority in other countries. Unfortunately, we have very different practices of application, very different examples of attitudes toward the Ukrainian minority in different countries. But today, in a time of Russian aggression against Ukraine, he showed how much Ukraine and Ukraine are being supported around the world, which gave priority to Ukrainians in virtually all the countries that accept us, who are giving us the opportunity today and to learn in their own language -- Ukrainian, who are giving us the opportunity and the opportunity to get a job. I think that this bill will only contribute to the fact that under the current conditions of the relationship between the various nations, the peoples who live in Ukraine and their native mother peoples who live in their territorial borders, it has enabled Ukrainians to actively develop their culture and we will contribute to the development of other peoples' culture. That's why the faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u77	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Law on National Minorities (Communitys) Ukraine (registration number of Law 8224) Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:33:25]] For 274 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for the amendment proposals to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8224. It's very important to do this, colleagues, so that we can make it to the next meeting. So I would like to support this proposal -- cut it by half. Please vote. [[13:33:57]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next bill 7633. Dear colleagues, 7633, we agreed not to discuss it. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws prohibiting the use of sources of information by the aggressor State or the occupying State in educational programmes, in scientific and scientific technical activities. I propose to adopt the bill of Law 7633 on the basis of the committee's proposals. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:35:15]] For 282 Decision taken. I'd like to make an offer based on the committee's proposals. Excuse me. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadlines for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7633. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:35:53]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill, 4558, is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to improve state regulation in the field of pesticide and agrochemicals. We're looking at, we're removing disagreements. Ladies and gentlemen, on November 28, 2022, I was approached by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture and Land Policy, proposing to eliminate inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 16, 2022 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving State Regulation in the Field of Pesticides and Agrochemicals (registration No. 4558). During the preparation of the text of the adopted law for signature, several inconsistencies and inaccuracies have been identified which require appropriate changes in the text of the law to subparagraphs "b", "b" and "b" of subparagraph 4 of section I, paragraph 1, concerning the modification of the second part and the addition of parts of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals. The Agrarian and Land Policy Committee (Protocol 110 of November 28, 2022) proposed proposals to eliminate inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the adopted law. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, these proposals are submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Offers were made to you. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposals initiated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture and Land Policy on the elimination of disagreements and inaccuracies in the text of the adopted Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Improvement of State Regulation in the Field of Pesticides and Agrochemicals (Registration No. 4558). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:00]] For 273 Decision taken. Disagreements have been removed. Let's move on. Next bill, 5840. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for Strengthening Responsibility in the Field of Treatment of Genomically Modified Organisms. Dear colleagues, 5840, we agreed without discussion. So I immediately propose to adopt bill number 5840 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:47]] For 280 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5840. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:11]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next bill, we also agreed without discussion and without amendment, is the draft Law on Geographical Designation of Drinks (6480). And so I immediately propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Law on Geographical Indications of Drinks (registration number 6480). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:03]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill is also uncontested, 6173. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the conclusion of an agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on mutual recognition of qualified electronic trust services and the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of electronic identification. So I immediately propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law registration number 6173. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:53]] For 289 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The procedure is Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u78	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear colleagues! As you can see, the entire room is now being united and voting on bills that are becoming laws that help us to maintain our candidate status and move towards the European Union, according to our responsibility as parliamentarians and as a whole in the Constitution of Ukraine. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many of these laws do not have the conclusion of a professional committee on Euro-integration issues. I find this to be unacceptable and I would like to address all committee leaders, but I would like to work more closely with the Committee on European Integration to make sure that we are more confident about what we are accepting today and not just today, given that this is the future of our country and we want any document to come out of the walls of the Supreme Council verified perfectly. Therefore, these requests are still received and made public in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u79	Thank you. And the next bill, 6107. Please, let's move on to the decision. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law in connection with the ratification of the Protocol on the Right to Maintenance Obligations. I propose to adopt draft Law 6107 on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:39]] For 293 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on. 5643 is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine concerning liability for copyright violations and (or) related rights. We agreed, too, without discussion. So I immediately propose to accept, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill No. 5643. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:43:25]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 8037. This is a draft of the Chemical Safety and Management Act. We agreed without making any amendments. So I immediately propose to accept in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal amendments the draft Law (8037) on Chemical Safety and Management of Chemical Products. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:09]] For 276 The law is passed in general. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 4187. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation on the use of nadrama. Dear colleagues, will someone be corrected, may we vote? Vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of the use of nadrama (registration number 4187). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:59]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is also uncontested, 5749. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Resisting Violations in the Work Area. I propose to adopt draft Law 5749 in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:45:34]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 6241. Draft National Information Programme Act. We agreed, too, without discussion. I would like to propose a second reading and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft of the National Information Programme (Registration No. 6241). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:46:08]] For 296 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, also without discussion, draft Law 7565-1. Draft Act amending the end-of-life and transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine before the adoption of a law amending the system of local courts in Ukraine in connection with the establishment (lying) of areas. I propose to adopt draft Law 7565-1 on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:46:53]] For 276 Decision taken. Next Bill 7443. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to the Final Provisions of the Family Code of Ukraine (for individual issues of the establishment and residence of a child in the family of a foster caregiver during the wartime period). I propose to adopt draft Law 7443 on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:30.]] For 296 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7630. Draft Act amending Ukraine’s Criminal Procedure Code to close criminal conduct in connection with decriminalization. I'll bet. I can put the whole thing together, right? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt draft Law 7630 in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:09]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill 5552-1. It's a bill on copyright and adjacent rights. We also arranged for the Conciliation Council without discussion. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights (Registration No. 5552-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:43]] For 266 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is also uncontested: 5336. This is a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal liability for torture. I immediately propose to accept, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the bill, registration number 5336. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:49:19]] For 297 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill 4412. Draft Act amending certain legislation on improving legislation in the field of migration (4412). I propose to adopt draft Law 4412 in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:49:55]] For 289 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we still have 4533. Dear colleagues, you will be given a collective proposal signed by the 156 Ukrainian National Deputies on the application of the special procedure for the consideration of draft bills in the second reading, provided for in article 119 with the symbol 1 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as discussed in the second reading of the draft Law (registration number 4533) on the constitutional procedure. At the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we agreed to discuss the matter. So I'd like you to sign up immediately for two minutes from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, because after that we are voting on this decision. Please sign up: two in, two in. Sign up. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u80	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I'd like to say that MPs should know what's behind this procedure. We need to make it clear that it is a matter of how the amendments made to this bill will inviol it as a worthless bill. That's what this is about. And so nobody, so to speak, wants -- I mean, the initiators -- to see this bill essentially and consider these amendments. Dear colleagues, I would like to say and inform you, my subjective view of what, unfortunately, is being compromised today by the judicial branch of power. We see from both the legislature and the executive authorities trying to discredit the judiciary, discredit the Constitutional Court, discredit the courts of general jurisdiction. So I'd like, dear colleagues, to focus your attention on the fact that it's impossible to support this. We have to go through these amendments, and you will see how fragile this bill is, how regressive it is in its ideology of entering the legal field of European courts. By the way, the Constitutional Court was 33rd in the history of Europe. And that's why I'd like, dear colleagues, to listen to the offer. Let's go through it without special procedures, let's look at the amendments and see who's who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u81	Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mikhajlovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u82	Please hand over Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u83	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, this is not the first time this special procedure has entered this hall and failed. And today, too, it must fail for two simple very reasons. Reason number one. As you know, one of our commitments on our way to the European Union is to reform, including the Constitutional Court. But reform, not completely different things that distance us. And I'm quite sure that the adoption of this law as it is now and how they want to preserve it with a special procedure will keep us away from the European Union, that is, head back into the concrete wall, and then we'll sort it out, heal the head and fix it, and look for the door. The second reason is the very special procedure as it is, because I want to remind myself again and I'm going to remind it many times, it was accepted once, and it was a gentleman's agreement, as a minimum, to apply it other times unfairly. I urge everyone not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u85	Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u86	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the honorable Presidium, the national deputies and all those who are able to see and hear us! Regrettably, it is becoming a sad tradition in this session room to abuse the so - called special procedure for addressing the important issues that our community and our international partners are looking forward to solving. The Venice Commission, in its conclusion of December 9, 2020, indicated that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should respect the Constitutional Court as the guardian of the Constitution. Excuse me, even the process itself or the attempt to address such an important issue in the special procedure is no longer a disrespect for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which needs to be reformed but not disbanded. And there are very large claims in general, and I would like the national MPs to have the opportunity procedurally, through the introduction of rights, most of which are very important and conceptual, to improve this bill. So far, there's been an attempt to just stretch it. We are confident that the Venice Commission, in the event of such a process of adoption of this bill, will also make its proposals again, because those who were before do not count. Because of this, the "Paternity" faction will not vote in favour of the special procedure and urge colleagues not to do so, because the bill has to really create a reform of the judiciary's branch of power, not its creation of visibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I am. Oh, I'm sorry. Ironborn is one minute. And then we move on to making decisions, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I like that we have a tradition -- almost every session we consider and fail a simplified procedure by constitutional procedure. But can you explain to me the logic of why we're doing this? There's 400 counted. Anyone who wants to stretch out will be able to confirm the adjustments and will be able to hold off for an hour as much as six. Anyone who doesn't want to do it won't do it. What will change if we vote on the simplified procedure? So today we've voted on a bill on Euro-integration, let's just sometimes just put something in the agenda and we're collecting something, signatures 150, we're doing an active activity, let's ask ourselves why. This will greatly help us to adjust our daily routine. I mean, honestly, I don't understand what we want to do with this vote, which is also going to be a failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, we're taking up seats, we're moving on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Article 119 with the prim badge I stand by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote on the proposal of 156 Ukrainian national deputies to apply a special procedure for the second reading of draft legislation (registration number 4533) on constitutional procedure. Ready to vote? Ready? Ready, fellows of honor? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:59:10]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, there is such an offer, because the "Serial of the People" faction needs to gather and vote now for the nomination, we're going to announce. [[B in m in s a l in]] And secondly, there are no signature letters. So let's call it a 30-minute break. It's 2:00. At 2:30 p.m., we meet in the hall and continue our plenary session. Do you have a deal? The "Serial of the People" faction, please assemble for the faction and run for Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, take it easy. Please take your seats, we'll continue our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Thank you for fulfilling your civic obligation to stay in hiding. This is the very right position for us to set an example for the entire population of Ukraine. So thank you so much for that. Dear colleagues, we continue. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. We're moving now. Let's go before we continue our meeting. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose that a signal vote be held in order to understand the prospects for dealing with matters of daily order. I'm asking all the MPs to take their seats, and we're about to make a signal vote, your honors. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Dear colleagues, I invite the national MPs to a signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:35:50.]] For 244 Beautiful. 244 – 5 against, 2 against, as usual. The whole palette. Dear colleagues, then we are going to consider the draft Law on Ratings (5819). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:36:29]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. We agreed, "European Solidarity" will take place. No, I don't. Let's move immediately to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft of the Rating Act (registration number 5819) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:37:20]] For 248 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to cut back on the proposal and amendments for the second reading of this bill, 5819. You don't have to? Okay. It's not necessary. Okay. Excuse me. Out of procedure, huh? Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the presiding officer to change the order of the day and to consider Bills 8196 and 8197. In principle, we talked to the conciliator about uniting their discussions and voting immediately. If there is no objection, I would like to support such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I understand your offer. Now go to Bills 8196, 8196-1, 8197, 8197-1 and consider them together, as the Rules allow, but in turn take a decision. I'm putting this motion to a vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:38:51]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we will now consider the issues related to Bills 8196, 8196-1, 8197, 8197-1. Dear colleagues, we can vote them out without talking, can't we? Uh, Eurosolidarity will be. Do you want to speak, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please, 8196, 8197, you are the author of the bill. Please, Dmitry Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, and after that, the "ES" will act, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, really, it is essential today that we finally do what we might have had to do in the summer to lower the price of generators in order not only to bring them from Europe but also to start gathering here. These bills are related to one another, one to the changes to the Tax Code, the other to the changes to the Customs Code. And I thank all the colleagues who supported him, thank you to the committee that prepared him quickly today, and we can accept him today. Today, there is a totally illegal Kabminu decree that has canceled the duty on generators. But in large numbers, it's only our authority. And so we're helping the population and the businesses that are bringing equipment here to repair and restore our critical infrastructure, which every day, almost every day, suffers from racist attacks. But it will also allow you to import complex and detailed generators here not only to lower the price but also to provide our fellow citizens with work, budget taxes and even lower the price of such products. So I ask you very much to support these bills. I, Ruslan Alexiyovich, will ask you to shorten the preparation period for the second reading and so that we can work as quickly as possible and vote on these laws in general at the next session. Because this question is already going for a minute, unfortunately, given that we understand that the next enemy strikes can be imminent. Please support. And thank you for your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u94	Please, one minute, Gerus is the author of alternative bills. Then, Danilo Alexanderovich, you're short on the committee that you recommended to support, then we discuss, we give only "European solidarity" and we vote. Please, Gerus is one minute, then the Gethmans, then Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u95	Thank you. Indeed, there is such a problem, it needs to be solved, and it needs to be helped in this situation by all of us so that we can live peacefully this winter. And we've been approached by the Energy Community, which is now forming a support fund for Ukrainian energy, and at the expense of this fund, we're going to import equipment into Ukraine. And they're also asking us to withdraw the import VAT and import the customs, because they don't have enough to finance support for Ukraine, they're going to have to pay for the import of these goods themselves. And there's also a list of goods, such as heatcommunerge pumps and water ducts, so that's what my bill provides. But I think it's going to be constructive and right if we're going to support one bill right now, and then we're going to work on the second reading, and we're going to add those Kvedas that we're also talking about. So let's make a quick decision so that we can sort this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u96	Please, Danilo Alexandrovich Getmants from the place that the bills are supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u97	Thank you. In fact, there's probably nothing to discuss here, we don't have a discussion about the need to exempt these goods from taxation. So on the committee, we decided to support the basic bills of 8196, 8197. Yet they are imperfect, they raise some questions from the point of view of legal engineering, and from the point of view of content, so they need to be further developed by the second reading. But the very concept, the idea, of course, is supported by both the government and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we only had a deal with the EC, and I see a lot of hands. So let's write it down: two in, two in, two in. Not all of you, please log in, are recorded only by those who want to. Please sign up. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u99	Dear Society, "European Solidarity" will support these bills. But I would like to highlight a few other points. Now that we're on the street, when there's a complete temperature disaster in Mariupola, and people are asking to be rescued, so is the Ukrainian state, even though they're under occupation right now, we're thinking about generators. As far as I know, in July there was already information that there would be energy and thermal infrastructure attacks, and in July we had to think about these issues. In July we had to order details because we all understand that the minimum production time, the security is at least three months. We need to understand that if we want to provide infrastructure especially energy, we have also asked about agreements with other countries, with firms, with manufacturers, because we use not new equipment that is in European countries, but somewhat outdated, and it is not in warehouses as such. Of course, we thank many countries that now provide details, transformers, generators. I especially want to take this opportunity to thank the volunteers who are pulling from all over the world the possible means of providing electricity. But at this point, I'd also like to remind you, because volunteers are being brainwashed when they're carrying all these generators. Instead of helping people who provide for the hospital, an advanced, ordinary civilian population, which is 18-20 hours, for God's sake, without electricity, it turns out that there are additional obstacles. And I would very much like to think that even with these bills we started to think strategically, even though someone once said there was no time to think strategically, because there is no time. But we need to think strategically if we are to provide for our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u100	Please, Kultenko Artem, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u101	Colleagues, please support this bill and move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u102	Thank you. Samantha Bobrowski, Voice. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, of course, the law will support us, and I, along with my release from duty, would release the entire composition of our customs. For the sake of understanding, simply as was the case with the cod decree: On November 9, the government decided to release the generators by means of a caddy. Well, the solution is creative, but they wrote it out so that no generators left because they just killed another certification point. On November 15, they finally change certification, but the generators don't drive through customs. First, because there are bribes and bribes, and secondly, customs treat the law differently. Moreover, on November 29, no one was able to order these generators by mail, since the customs office once again considered that 150 euros had not missed a limit and no one had missed it. This story, when the Prime Minister says you have a generator if you don't miss customs, it's call the HQ, it's, sorry, it's a shame. What's going on at the customs office right now, well, it's just some sort of robbery during the war, I don't know. So in this case, it would be really cool if we had problems, and they were, with the generators, the batteries, the EcoFlow and all that, we solved through the law. And if someone wants to do it creatively because of the determination, even the coven, they would do it because of the caddy, not because of one place, as it was almost three weeks, as it happened to the generators. So once again, the law needs to be maintained, but it would be desirable not to have such shame throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u104	Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich Dear colleagues, then we vote, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u105	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I am very glad that Prime Minister Schmigal appeared in the hall. Mr. Dennis, Mr. Prime Minister! If you may ask, please. Mr. Arahami, please. A few words, I think, will be very useful to Mr. Prime Minister. Dear friends surely need to vote on the generators. And I fully support Mrs. Sophia Fedina's statement that this was supposed to be done in advance because we're catching up. Mr. Prime Minister does not hear what is explained to him by simple things! Mr. Prime Minister, I address you first. The energy we have today is in a state of war, it's an energy front, and we're all hostages of it. Mr. Prime Minister, please listen to me first! I'm begging you. Such disrespect is evidence that we will continue to have a problem with energy. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, please, please, energy cannot live by the laws of peace, we have a state of war, we have an energy front. It is urgent to adopt appropriate changes to the laws in order to translate the energy sector into the laws of wartime. The energy management system, the decision-making system, is not adequate today. All these unprofessional, and unfortunately, inefficient headquarters need to be replaced by a rigid vertical for immediate decisions. There can be no independent regulator; there can be no ministry without authority that does not govern specific subjects. So we certainly support these generators, but listen to me, transfer energy immediately to wartime, because you still don't understand the land that's coming to us in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we have completed the discussion of these two bills. I'm going to ask the people's deputies to take their seats. We're going to make a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act (8196) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to promote the restoration of Ukraine's energy infrastructure. Ready, national MPs, vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:51:04]] For 292 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to promote the restoration of Ukraine’s energy infrastructure (registration No. 8197). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:51:39]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it was suggested that the amendments to the second reading, amendments and proposals for these two bills should be reduced by two times: 8196, 8197. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:52:12]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed on the Conciliation Council, taking into account the importance of the National Minorities (Communitys) Act in Ukraine, to ask again the issue of shortening the deadline for amendments and proposals to the second reading of the National Minorities (Communitys) Act (8224). Linerate is 8224. I ask the National Deputies to support us so that we can prepare this issue by December 13th of this year, before the next meeting. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:53:04]] For 275 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Honorary colleagues, Prime Minister Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich and members of the government are taking part in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, can we go to Kubrakov right away? Let's move on to Kubrakov, and then we'll look at all of the agenda issues. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u107	Yes, at the same time as the discussion will take place, we ask the regulatory committee to gather to address the issues of the decisions that are already being registered. They'll be ready soon, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u108	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council the appointment of Mr. Alexander Mikolayovich as Vice-Prime Minister for the Renewal of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed on the next procedure for dealing with the matter. The appointment by the Prime Minister, up to 2 minutes, may be less; the candidate's address may be less than 3 minutes; the committee's report may be less than 2 minutes; the speeches from the MPs and groups that want to be less than 16 minutes. Making a decision. Dear colleagues, no objection to such a decision by the Conciliation Council? None. Then let us move on to the question. The prime minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the floor to represent the candidate. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u109	Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution, the Constitution of Ukraine proposes that the Democratic Party of the People's Party "Servement of the People", which, according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution, has the right to a coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation, submit the application for the appointment of Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich as Deputy Prime Minister for the restoration of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine. Among its areas of responsibility will be infrastructure and regional development, which will allow for a more systematic approach to planning the reconstruction process of Ukraine. The Vice Prime Minister's position is an important signal to both society and our partners that reconstruction is our priority today and that reconstruction should start right now. The unification of ministries, I would stress, is a union, not an absorption, it is important, because we unite the ministry without losing any of the existing functions of the Ministry of Community and Territory Development, will help to improve coordination on the reconstruction of war-affected regions and the passage of the most difficult winter in our history. Alexander Kubrakov, you all know him well, worked as a minister of infrastructure in our government for a year and a half, and he understands in detail the challenges ahead and future. We work with you, we work together to win. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u110	Thank you, thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the floor of the candidate for the post of Alexander Mikolaiovich Kubrakov. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u111	Good afternoon, dear friends, colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank Dennis Anatolyevich for his trust and support. I would also like to thank you, dear colleagues, for the trust and support I have received from you in the first days of this office. You and I have been working on plans to build our nation, planning projects with many of you in your regions and cities. We've made a lot of progress, and unfortunately, there's only so much left left to do because of the beginning of an open Russian aggression in February. The war has put everything in place for us. Today there's a white color, there's a black color, there's no more halftoning, there's only one clear unit of measure -- that's how much you're committed to helping the army no matter what position you're in. That's how our team has been working since the first days of the war -- loyally, sincerely, 100 percent devoted to their business. I write to every member of our infrastructure family: railways, porters, postmen, passengers, pilots, and many others. We will definitely return to our plans and will be able to rebuild our country. We're definitely going to help our partners, we're definitely not going to be alone with all the challenges. Today, we focus exclusively on the projects needed for our survival during the war. Our job is to get our lives back into the repossessed regions as soon as possible after their release. The Kyiv region, Žitomirska, Chernigivska, Sumska, Kharkivska, Hersonska, Donetska, Lugansk – in all of these regions our services immediately entered immediately after the military. With regard to the unification of ministries. I understand and realize that successful reforms should be continued and supported. As an example, the area of architectural control. Everyone's already forgotten about the corrupt DABI, and the new structure of DIAM uses people's trust, business trust. We should definitely complete the reform of decentralization, because in the last seven years decentralization has given local communities considerable development. But together with the potential of the community, responsibility must also be given. In doing so, we have to make sure that the energy efficiency system is in place, taking into account the situation with the link, with the supply of energy in the future. Energy efficiency projects will be a prerequisite for the survival of our country. It is a great honor for me to be part of the President's team, to help our army, our people, our country in the most difficult and dramatic times in our country's history. We will surely win. Praise the Armed Forces! Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u112	Heroic glory! Thank you. Honourable National MPs are invited to report to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Infrastructure, Yuri Grigorovich Kisiel. Please, Yuri Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u113	The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure at its meeting discussed the appointment of the Prime Minister for the post of Deputy Prime Minister for the restoration of Ukraine, the Minister for the Development of the Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to support the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, part one, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the appointment of Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich as Vice Prime Minister for the restoration of Ukraine, the Minister for the Development of Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine. I'm going to point out that a year and a half ago, Alexander Mikolaiovich agreed to take such a difficult course as reforming transport and infrastructure, and headed the Ministry of Infrastructure. Despite the difficult times in our country, you have been able to meet all the challenges and to ensure that the most rapid restoration of damaged areas and aggressor-damaged transport infrastructure is achieved. Thanks to the well - organized work of your team, the professionalism and effectiveness of decisions, conditions are created for the return to full life of communities in the free cities and villages. Now your tasks in the field of transport infrastructure include the development of communities and territories of the country. At the same time, we have many challenges in seeking to rebuild Ukraine. I am confident that, along with our unbreakable President, we will move together and continue together to win, to the full restoration of the vitality of our state. I hope for the same effect in the new post and in fruitful cooperation with the Committee and Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you, Yuri Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions and groups before the performance, for two minutes at a time. Record only those factions and groups that wish to speak. And then we go straight to the vote. Please give the floor to Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group will support the nomination, but I do. I'd like to ask you a question, if I may, to Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Please tell me, Mr. Kubrakov, the two ministries that you will be, in fact, in the 23rd year budget, are actually cut down more than twice the funding and you will need to rebuild infrastructure in the regions, in the areas where it's all destroyed by an aggressor. Please tell me where the money will come from. Of course, such proposals were made by the government to create a special fund for this purpose. to restore Ukraine. Where did the money come from? From the budget, from the partners or how you're planning this, as you can see, so that we can understand that the restoration of Ukraine is actually going to happen, not just this is going to be a fiction or something. Just political statements. Please tell me, what kind of work is being done in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u116	Thank you. The only thing we have is a deviation from factions, we don't have any questions for a candidate. But I think he'll hear you and take that into account for the future. Please give the word of Zimbaluku Mikhailovich. I understand that, Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u117	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Mr. Prime Minister, I understand that the decision is made politically, you will make it, you will answer. I'm just going to remind you that any process of merger and absorption, it takes time, you've already done, your government and the ministries of unified energy and ecology, then you've disassembled the agrarian ministry with economics, you've also disconnected. Well, let's hope that this experiment is more successful. Now let's do it first. Dear Mr. Kubrakov, I am personally to you with great respect, and I would like to stress one point at once. First, well, if possible a task or advice. We just voted on the generators, on the customs regime. Please note, the flow of generators, gas balloons in multiple apartment housings will begin immediately. Whether we want it or not, people will pull this extremely dangerous equipment into their homes and create enormous danger. Part of it can be solved by changing the debut, but part of it has to be controlled in some way. How can we do this? As long as I don't want to talk, because we don't have such a control system, everything's destroyed, there's no inspection. But the danger is great. Please pay attention to this. Keep going. Dear Mr. Kubrakov, distinguished Mr. Prime Minister, you have made a decision to merge the two ministries. I don't really understand how they're going to be used there, I'm begging for one thing. Don't forget the utility, 'cause we're all going to have priority number one right now. Don’t forget about heating, housing policy, and other nuances. You won't forget about the construction, I understand. If possible, create agencies — a housing policy agency, a building policy agency — to keep the footage there. Thank you. I wish you luck.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u118	Thank you. Please give the word to Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u119	Dear friends, colleagues, the political party and the People's Servant faction of the Supreme Council have decided to support Mr. Alexander for this position. The profile committee also supported it. I know that Mr. Alexander will also be able to support our infrastructure in the near future, as well as all the professional unified institutions that will enter the new ministry. It's gonna be okay. We believe in Mr. Alexander. Please support his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u120	Thank you. The word is given to Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrovsky, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, we have another wonderful proposal from the faction for the optimisation and consolidation of ministries. We would like to invite Mr. Prime Minister to make a proposal to the Supreme Council for the inclusion of not only these two ministries, infrastructure and regional development, but also to add the ministries of culture and education, because these are two other ministries, which are completely free of charge and without charge. They're gonna hug, they're gonna kiss. How they behave in a totally free and inexorable manner during a state of war. In this regard, I have two more questions. First, when we see here the Prime Minister's application for the release of Scarlett, who kills education, and that's without a word, and all majors know that very well. And the second. When we finally have a "hour of questions to the government," which either exists, or doesn't exist in our jobs. I would be grateful for these answers and answers from both the speaker and the Prime Minister, who may not be listening to the MPs on another occasion and who does not know why he is coming here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u122	You mean to me that I don't listen to MPs? Samantha Anatolyevna! No, you said to the speaker. I always have an ear, and perhaps as I listen to you all carefully, so few listen. Dear colleagues, the word is given to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues! An important question, of course, and it's not so much related to the introduction of a new post, the appointment of Mr. Kubrakov's vice-premier, whom we know during this reporting period when he served as minister. We think we've always found a common language in the drafting of bills, in the understanding of public policy issues, and we think he might be a pretty successful leader, a vice-premier. But I would also like to pay attention to the topic of merger or unification of ministries. In general, the issue of reforming the work of the central executive bodies established by the government and it seems to us that there are far enough, let us say, points that relate to the unification of ministries and there are issues that still need to be addressed. So it seems to me that it will be necessary to listen to the government’s thoughts and MPs, representatives of various political factions and groups, and it will certainly benefit. Today I would like to wish Mr. Kubrakov a successful and fruitful work. The "Trust" MP will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final speech, then we go to the vote. I'm asking you to take a photo, remember to vote for the candidate. I give the word "Savrasov" to Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity." Then we move on to making a decision. Please, Maxim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u126	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u127	Dear Ukrainians, it's just for your information under the transcript. One of the key vespermiers is being appointed. Do you think the candidate is listening to the speech from the hall right now? No, it's not. Do you think the Prime Minister is listening to these speeches from the hall right now? Neither did I. Just look at this, you don't see it on TV, but I'm just putting it under your stenogram. Now regarding this assignment. Let's do it, Ministry of Infrastructure. Was everything okay there? Of course not. I heard Mr. Alexander say it was a measure of how much you were helping the army. Yes, all of us in this room remember how money from the army got on the road, and that money may not have been enough at the beginning of the war. As far as the Ministry of Regional Development is concerned. Look, they almost killed local government, talk to the mayors, talk to the heads of OTG, they'll tell you all about it. As for now, in front of the Deputy Prime Minister, what challenges will there be? Maybe he'll listen to the transcript after that, you know, he'll get it. First. The important thing is that this restoration does not become another major theft. For, you know, you go to Butch and ask the opinion of people who had no windows, roofs and doors, told them that there was no money, and they made roads in front of them. Right now, after the release. The other one. The second challenge is going to be chaos in power. Because today we hear from Mr. Alexander that he here praises DIAM in the field of architecture and construction. And there's a law in this room that's actually killing this DIAM. Look, do you have a right hand that doesn't know what the left hand is doing? And the third challenge is international aid. For in the sight of all men there is still the example of Lugano, which was almost overthrown. Almost, I said it so softly, it was really down, and we didn’t get any help from there. So the challenges are serious, and we hope that the situation will not get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I'm asking you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, once again, please take your seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. The only thing I do before I make a decision is to address the national deputies with informational itching, please do not disseminate information about the meetings of the Supreme Council and the decisions taken. I say that three times during a sitting. And now again, our deputies are fasting in their Facebooks on the adoption of laws in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, why is there so much pressure? And how do you differ from visitors who operate in other territories? There are such deputies and there are many. So please, we're going to make this decision right now, and I really don't want it to show up in five seconds on social networks that the Supreme Council has just appointed Kubrakov. Do you have a deal? Please. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 8255) on the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister for the Development of the Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? People's deputies please support and vote. [[16:15:29]] For 263 Decision taken. Welcome! [[Applause]] Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vice-Prime Minister for the Restoration of Ukraine – Minister for the Development of Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine Kubrakov Alexander Mikolaiovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u129	I wanted to thank you again for your confidence. I, Kubrakov Alexander Mikolaiovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u130	Yeah, well, we can't start the second question until you give us an oath. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. Next is questions 8172, 8172-1, 8172-2. This is a question that we will discuss. This is a draft of the Law on certain issues of the use of electric vehicles and amending certain legislative acts on the elimination of fuel dependence and the development of electrical infrastructure and electrical means of transport. I'm proposing to include Bill 8172 in the agenda of the day, as well as the alternatives to Bill 8172-1, 8172-2. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:18:17]] For the 250. Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:18:36]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favor, two in favour. But just write down the factions that want to speak, please don't write the rest down, so we're going to shorten the route. People's deputies, please don't leave because we're going to, I think, work faster, hopefully. Please, there are only two factions registered, then let's move on to the decision. Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill in the first reading, although I regret to say again that he is certainly late. Late for about two or three years, well, unfortunately, this is all happening to us, and on the first, I'm paying attention to you, not to catch up on time, but to play ahead of time. Now the points that were at stake in this bill on the committee, I want to say that we definitely have to deal with local self-government, with city heads, with local council deputies, with the Ministry of Finance, the issue of financing the budget and the occupier's programme for the transition of urban electricity to electricity. Once again, I want to say that even if you send two ministries together, because it's a matter of transport in the first place, not energy, it's clear that this is a complex issue that needs to be addressed right now, all the issues of permits, and all the questions of organizing this difficult process. But, in principle, it's right and we're set up constructively, we're going to support, but we're going to give corrections and we're going to make it meaningfully for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u132	Thank you. The word is given to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I want to tell you that the bill and the subject of regulation and legislative support for the use of electric vehicles is very promising. That's what Europe says, that's what the world says. This, in particular, requires quality of life and ecology. The current attempt to resolve these issues in the bill is correct, but it does not correspond to the decentralization and self-government system referred to by Mr. Alexei. At the same time, what I want to say is that this bill and this issue of providing for the development of electric cars and the infrastructure of electric power stations primarily forms public policy in the field of road transport. The second aspect is that it normalizes the question of state policy for connecting and deploying power-powered stations, and it also provides for new construction in technical conditions, especially multi-story buildings. This question is made up of the components of settlement at the level of the city’s authorities, self - government, which should be corrected between the first and the second readings. And when we look at the bill and the warnings that GNEU is giving today, I would like to point out that the essence of the four articles. One of them contains terminology, the other defines the scope of the law, the third is government regulation, and the fourth is just aimed at solving one issue: the location and integration of electric power stations into electricity networks. And when we're talking about 2033, when we're talking about 2025, we need to strengthen this rule of law and support this bill. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've only asked for Kubrakov. Do you need a name? I can call it. Including your faction, I don't see him here, and his post is. Do you understand? The point is, there's no man at work, and there's a post, you know? Dear colleagues, we have two of these outstanding informants in the Council. We all know their names, say his name, yes, the Council's Spichiders. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Law on certain issues of the use of electric vehicles and to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of fuel dependence and the development of electrical power infrastructure and electrical means of transport (registration No. 8172). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:23:59]] For 237 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8172. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:24:27]] For 214 The decision is not taken. It's just that everybody talked about the importance of this law and didn't support the cutbacks. That's what happens. Ladies and gentlemen, the next one has been arranged without discussion. That's why I'm making a proposal right now. We're going into Project 5648. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Hosting Subjects and other Ukrainian legislative acts on improving control and monitoring of state aid to host entities. I propose to adopt the proposal on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the drafting of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, draft Law 5648. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:25:29]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, come on. Dear colleagues, let's do it again first. I ask your support, let's put this bill back on track first and advise the people's deputies to sit in their seats and work. Dear colleagues, I'd like to propose that you send 5648 back to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:26:17]] For 231 Decision taken. It went back to the first. The next bill 8082 is a draft law amending the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine on the implementation of legislation. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:26:51]] For 224 We haven't been able to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Let's move on. Next, 8158. See how well you can, you can't, you can't vote for inclusion and you can't work, right? 8158 is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to the certification of a gas shelter operator and the continuation of measures to prevent the bankruptcy of the State Shareholder Association BlackMornaftogaz). I'm making a proposal, I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support this bill, and I'm proposing to include it in the agenda of the session. [[16:27:45.]] For 257 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:28:07]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed to discuss this. All she asked for was "Paternal" and "ES," right? "Paternity." The cubs will be. And who's from Homeland? Dear colleagues, we agreed. Kucherenko and the Cubans. Dear colleagues, this is how we agreed. No, there's no need to report. Please, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, then Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich and then we vote. Please don't go away. Please, Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the bill of introduction and determination of the procedure for certification of gas storage operators, the granting of powers to the National Commission, which regulates energy and public services. The other one. This is a certification in a system of European Union standards. And the third. This is the introduction of the concept of "Fissification of gas shelters and the target of filling gas shelters" and the continuation by 31.12.2025 of effective measures to prevent the bankruptcy of the State Shareholders Association BlackMornaftegas. The relevant changes are proposed in the laws on the natural gas market, on the National Commission for National Regulatory in the Field of Energy and Utilities, on Executive Conduct, and on the Code of Bankruptcy. Accordingly, there is a justification for the bill, including the need to implement Ukrainian legislation, to adapt the version to the revision of European Union Regulation 715/2009 and EU Regulation 2017/1938, which took effect in the EU in July 2022. The bill is systemic, but we can support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Kucherenko. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u137	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I am the authorized position of the faction to put out, and I want to point out that yesterday was a very professional, very professional and deep discussion around this bill on an expert board of factions, on a faction, and the faction decided to abstain in voting for this bill. Although I personally supported him on the committee and am in the coauthors. Explain why? We have no doubt that the certification of a gas shelter operator should be made according to European standards, and this is not even questioned. We have no doubt that we really need to prevent the bankruptcy of the State Shareholder Company, the Black Mornaftegas. But the colleagues pointed out that, in fact, the unification of these two issues in the same law seems, in a mild sense, unprofessional. And it seems to us that it would be a good idea to divide these questions. As far as certification is concerned, with very careful consideration of the comments of the GNEU, and they are on the seven pages, we really see enough of the Ministry of Finance's substantive observations, and enough of the observations of other authorities, and the understanding that this good bill is right, we need to work on it to really enable our GTS Operator to put gas into the repository, to accept it, first of all not only from Ukrainian companies, but also from European companies, and to create the strategic reserve that we need today. The only question I don't understand is, why couldn't this bill be adopted three years after the banning? It's only been three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to certification of a gas shelter operator and continuation of measures to prevent the bankruptcy of the State Shareholder Association BlackMornaftogaz) (Registration No. 8158). Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. Please vote. [[16:33:24]] For 253 Decision taken. I would like to propose a cut in half the preparation for the second reading of this Bill, 8158. [[16:33:51]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill, 8166-d. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the application of the export security regime for a period of military, state of emergency. Relevant Bill 8166, 8166-1. I'm proposing to include all the bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:34:34]] For 225 Honorable Fellows, 225. Thank you for your close support. They didn't turn it on, next time. Next bill, 8169. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving Certain Issues of Military Duty and Military Service. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, 8169. Please vote. [[16:35:25]] For 265 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[16:35:50]] For 242 Decision taken. We agreed there'd be a performance just from the EC. Who will be Arthur Volodymyrovich, or who? Sophia Fedina. Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues. Please, Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u139	"European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading. But when we speak of military service and military duty, we must first understand what we put first. And I think this is supposed to be about responsibility. In fact, we support that initiative so that those boys and girls who are supposed to take the lead and be called for military service for the first time would have to go through the appropriate training period so that they would know what to do and be able to at least save their lives and the lives of their brothers, not just to be thrown like cannon meat, as the Moscow Federation does. But at the same time, when we speak of responsibility, those who go to the service need the protection of the Ukrainian State to support their daily life. And here I would like to thank all volunteers, volunteers in Ukraine, volunteers abroad, who, through "I can't" and "I don't want" all day long, 36 hours a day, help the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian army, sometimes in the face of persecution. So first. Thank you to all the volunteers, and I would like to thank the Peter Dustenk Foundation and the community affairs, who have now established themselves as the Ministry of Defense, and are providing our military personnel with an advance form, a bourgeois, a machine, a variety of complexes that help not just to carry out their tasks, but to save lives and have the opportunity to defend the Ukrainian state. So again and again, I would very much like us to resolve the issues, particularly with the security and support of our military personnel, strategically, in advance and with the aim of helping Ukraine win.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, let's move on to decision-making. I'm asking the national MPs to take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of specific issues of military service and military service. — Registration No. 8169. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:38:44]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8169. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:39:10]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues, next bill 5818. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of individual pension issues and the insurance of employees of the State Bureau of Investigation. I would like to make a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner, and I ask you to vote. [[16:39:47]] For 222 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed that only Arthur Gerasimov's performance would take place and we would vote afterwards. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please, your speech, which we all expect, is announced. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I will be very brief. This law should not be voted on. It's categorical. What's the law about? He's not talking about pensions, he's talking about the D.B.I.S. The D.B.I. wants to retire more quickly. It's too much, you poor thing, you know. And I want to tell you a very simple thing. We all remember what happened to the D.B.I. at the beginning of the war. All the deputies who were here in Kiev, we all remember, all those who traveled east remember, all those who traveled south remember. In many cities and towns, who was the first to put their heels on? One answer was: D.B.I. The police are heroes, the Nazis are heroes, our armies are heroes. D.B.I.? You all remember the video. And so, you know, I'll be honest with you, I've registered a bill for re-launching the D.B.I., two bills, because there are still amendments to the codes, 8060 and 8059. Just study them. And then after we reload the D.B.I., we'll get normal people there, and they'll start their service, and then we'll be able to talk about them earlier, not that they won't get a pension before they retire. And finally. You know, I don't understand why the relevant profile committee still doesn't invite the head of the D.B.I. to a report that he's bound to do every year, I emphasize, is obliged. And finally. Dear colleagues, it's not about retirement, it's about early retirement. So do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, one second. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have the right to represent the faction, if there was writing, you understand. Because this was the agreement of the Conciliation Council, where there are representatives of different factions and groups. [[B in m in s a l in]] That doesn't limit it, because then you have to follow procedure, write it down. From the procedure? It's just a procedure. Maxim Arkadyovich. The procedure is Maxim Arkadyovich Bujanski. And from the procedure, Grigory Mikolaiovich's mother. But from the procedure, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, this is really a necessary bill. But I would suggest that you not look at it or support it right now. I'm sorry, we have a few questions about the D.B.I.'s activities with D.B.I. employees. In particular, how they deal with matters directly related to you and the national deputies. How slowly they look at them, how slowly they defend the law, how they report, makes me ask you to hold back now and for now to leave the question for later. Let's start with a nice job of the State Bureau of Investigation, flawless, and then we'll set up pensions and wages and everything. Don't support this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u144	So for the sake of variety, Maxim Arkadyovich, say one more thing on procedure, because I've given you one by one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the procedure is, as always, irreprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u146	It's brilliant. Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we done discussing this issue? Can we vote? Mom? You shut Mamka down, open Mommy up. Grigory Mikolaiovich's mom, too. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that we have the best procedure, and now, in fact, we have the best procedure. Please tell me, how do law enforcement agencies differ? For example, the National Police and the State Bureau of Investigation? Look, I wasn't yelling. Nothing. In the National Police alone, training is included in the internships, and in the D.B.I. I'd like to point out if we're from the Supreme Council. The police, too, are often underpaid. I'd like to see if he wrote an application for a crime. If he didn't write, he's an accomplice. One. Another question. Restart the D.B.I. So we've been running, remember, we've released the manager, the trumpet and everyone else in the room. Released? Who will ever answer in this room? Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be systematic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u148	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can go to this bill. Honestly, we already call him a pensioner with the D.B.I. Let's determine whether we support or not this bill, but we have to vote. I therefore propose to adopt a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of individual pension insurance issues and the insurance of employees of the State Bureau of Investigation (registration number 5818). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:46:03]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to re-read this bill. Dear colleagues, 5818, I'm asking you to re-read it. People's deputies, please vote. Let's support it, let it go, let's work it out. [[16:46:38]] For 216 No potential, 216. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is another procedure: sending the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Let's try that, if it doesn't work, the bill is rejected. I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to draft Bill 5818. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:47:14]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The bill is considered to be rejected, respected colleagues. Next bill, honorary colleagues, 8081. It's a second reading. There was an amendment, but the author takes it down, and we immediately vote. So I'm making a proposal, I'm asking you to take a seat, take a second reading, and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft law amending article 10, paragraph 18, with a prim badge. The Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families concerning the granting of military service leave during the war. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:48:14]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, another Bill No. 7441-1. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the support of borrowers whose property has been destroyed or damaged as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I can bet, can't I? I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and some Ukrainian legislation on the support of borrowers whose property has been destroyed or damaged by the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine (registration number 7441-1). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:49:27]] For 265 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we have two more questions, yes. It's a committee decision. Can I have the number of this decision, please? 8256, right? But I wouldn't mind her name. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council Committees of Ukraine on the Ninth Call" (registration No. 8256). I propose to include this ruling in the agenda of the day session. And for a second, before we go to the hearing of this decision, he said there was a conflict of interest. Who's it gonna be? Please, Rocsolana Andriyevna. A statement of conflict of interest. It's expensive, and then it's Schulak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I hereby publicly announce that I have a conflict of interest in the next issue of agenda No. 8124. And I'd like you to record this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u150	8256.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u151	8256. Please report this to the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Shulak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, dear fellows, give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I hereby publicly announce that I have a conflict of interest in the next issue of agenda 8256.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u155	And I would like to make this a record of the plenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, one second, one second. Please, Apparatus, come here. Please don't break up, dear fellows. We'll give it to the Roadman. Sergey Vitaliovich, come here, please. Dear colleagues, one minute off. Please don't go away. We need to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u157	We're going to have to meet up with an urgent regulatory committee right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we have another question. Please don't go away, please don't go away. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 116, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 20, of the Law on the Court of Auditors, article 208, with the symbol 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council appoints the members of the Court of Auditors. The Committee on Budget Affairs conducted a vacancy tender for a member of the Court of Auditors. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. In accordance with the Rules and decisions of the Committee, the next order for consideration is proposed. The committee report -- I'm sorry, I can't do that -- the committee report is the failure of the competition that was. A report from the Committee on Budget Affairs - up to 3 minutes, statements from factions and groups - up to 16 minutes, 2 minutes per faction. Conducting the rating vote by electronic system in alphabetical order by each candidate separately. The definition of one candidate with the largest number of votes. Decision-making on the basis of a rating vote. Let's move on to the question. The procedure is Arthur Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u159	If I understand correctly, this is a committee discussion, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u160	No, the committee decision will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u161	Oh, that's it, that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u162	The committee order will be as follows.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u163	Roger that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u164	So, honourable national MPs, let's move on to the discussion. The head of the State Financial Control and Activities Subcommittee, Igor Fedorovich Molotok, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u165	Honourable fellow MP Ruslan Alexiyovich, due to his release on September 3, 2020, Yaremenka from office as a member of the Court of Auditors and according to the legislative requirements of the Budget Committee on September 18, 2020, was declared to be a member of the Court of Auditors. The committee had received documents from ten candidates. One of them refused to participate in the competition, so nine candidates are taking part in the competition. The materials for all candidates since October 2020 are available on the Supreme Council website and on the Budget Committee website. The results of a special examination were obtained for all candidates in February 2021. The committee has interviews with candidates. The committee’s decision with detailed information on the conduct of the competition is given. In particular, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted a decision. The first is to confirm the conclusions of the committee on each of the nine candidates for the office of a member of the Court of Auditors, according to which there are three candidates: Volodyn, Kunenko, Nagurny raises questions about their compliance with article 19 of the Act on the Court of Auditors, which is part of one of the official languages of the Council of Europe, taking into account the initial level of English spoken by them, and to approve the original regulation of the Supreme Council of the matter. The other one. To administer the Supreme Council's decision-making committee. To include the relevant conclusions of the Committee on Candidates, do not add the information on candidates as defined in Article 205 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, since copies of the relevant documents are available on the Supreme Council website and on the Budget Committee website.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u166	Thank you. One second, colleagues. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions and groups, and then we're going to vote in alphabetical order for each candidate and we're going to finish, I think, today's meeting, we're taking a break. Please log in from factions and groups. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u167	Please pass on the word to Cabal Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u168	Vladimir Tsabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that one of the functions of the Supreme Council is the control function. Besides, we have laws to enact, we have to control the enforcement of laws, the execution of government budgets, the use of state funds. And the Court of Auditors is the very instrument of the Supreme Council to do so. But what I want to point out is that we have an accounting room that has been understaffed for many years, a very long period. We now have 13 members of only 8 members of the Court of Auditors. So we, as the Supreme Council ourselves, are giving up in part on this function, which is that this function isn't going to end. I call on my colleague, I call on my colleague from a great majority, let's finally resolve this issue. So let's figure this out and by the end of the year, let's finally make the Court of Auditors a functional body, make sure that we have 13 members of the Court of Auditors and that we do what they have to do, that is, control the use of budget funds. It's a very important function, especially now that we realize that every penny that's ineffectively used is money that we don't give to the Supreme Council. So, colleagues, I urge this to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, Jurchenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, MP's "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u171	Colleagues, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u172	Beautiful. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u173	The question is quite clear. We need to be quick about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move to the alphabetical order. Ah, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Excuse me, Arthur Volodymyrovich, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u175	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! I think it's the second series we have today with regard to the Court of Auditors, maybe there'll even be a third one now, so don't think too much that the session is going to end now. As far as this vote is concerned, colleagues, in fact, the Court of Auditors is now working, it is actually working, and it is publishing reports. As far as I can see, what I've seen today, on the contrary, there is some pressure on the part of the authorities and certain actions that, on the contrary, are trying to put this House of Accounts under total control to prevent them from checking what it is checking and what reports it is issuing. So what you are now, let's say, these are the steps we're taking, I think. Let's say that they're not meant to increase the efficiency of the Court of Auditors because it's still working effectively. What they're aimed at, I think we'll see in the near future, but that certainly doesn't apply to its effective work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Now, dear fellows, we are moving to the alphabetical order in each candidate separately. I'm going to name a last name after my father's candidate, and you're going to be determined to support this candidate. Volodyn Artem Viktorovich. Please vote. [[17:03:45]] For-19 Dudkin Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[17:04:05]] For-16 Klimenko Kirilo Olegovich. Please vote. [[17:04:26]] For-13. Kunenko Valentina Pavlovna. Please vote. [[17:04:45]] For -8 Maziarczuk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[17:05:03]] For-26 Naughty Rostislav Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[17:05:22]] For the 10th. I think it's Olenna Alexandrovna. Please vote. [[17:05:40]] For 20 Stavska Lilia Stanislavna Please vote. [[17:06:01]] For-16 And Chugunov Igor Yakovich. Please vote. [[17:06:19]] For the 15th. Honorary colleagues, now in accordance with Article 208 with the 2rd Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be put to the vote by a candidate who has obtained the largest number of votes on the basis of the rating vote. I'm voting on the proposal to appoint a member of the House of Auditors, Mr. Maziarczuk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[17:07:00]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with Article 208 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ask the Committee on Budget Issues to announce a re-commissioning of a member of the Court of Auditors. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, are the final committee orders ready? Not ready. Do I get it right? Dear colleagues, one second, we're going to ask if there's a committee decision. Dear colleagues, come on, we hope it will be, we don't ask the question, but let the colleagues announce the conflict of interest of 8256 if there is a vote. Well, we're not going in yet. Please, once again, Rocksolana Yuriovn, for fuck's sake. Rocksolana Andriyevna. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u177	Now, just a second. I'm sorry. 8256, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u178	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, good day again! I would like to announce once again that I have a conflict of interest in the next issue of agenda No. 8256, and I ask you to submit this to the minutes of the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u180	Thank you. Please, Schuljak Olenna Alexiyevna, 8256 Order, conflict of interest. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I publicly announce a conflict of interest, Decree 8256. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u182	Thank you. Please, Roadway, 8256. It's expensive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u183	I declare that I have a conflict of interest, so I will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u184	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, all who had, expressed a conflict of interest? We can try to get into that. Dear colleagues, I'm putting forward an offer, take your seats, make a day-to-day draft of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Ninth Call" (registration No. 8256). Ready to vote? People’s Deputies Please Vote [[17:10:08]] For 215 All right, there's no potential. The one who ran didn't run, the tea's more important. Dear colleagues, the questions are Alexander Sergiyovich, and then we take a break. We're not going tomorrow. Thank you for your fruitful work today, dear colleagues. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u185	Sixteen parliamentary inquiries were made in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of them, to the President, zero; to the Supreme Council, zero; to the Cabinet of Ministers, three; to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government, 11; to the heads of enterprises, institutions, organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of property - 2. An inquiry by Anton Yatzenk into the Umman City Head concerning the provision of information and copies of documents regarding the number of apartments that are owned by the Umman City Council. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Council for the issuance of copies of documents regarding the programs and decisions taken by the Umman City Council. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information on a legal person is a community non-commercial enterprise called the Umman Central City Hospital of the Umman City Council. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for information on the National Patriotic Action "Young Protector's School" for seniors. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information on the allocation of funds from the local budget of the Umman City Territorial Society in the amount of over thirteen million dollars to ensure the security of our state. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head is about providing information on the number of internally displaced persons placed for temporary residence in the territory of the Umman City Territorial Society during February and November 2022. Anton Yatzenk to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for the purpose of personally controlling the conduct of criminal investigation in criminal proceedings No. 4202225210000076 of October 28, 2022, according to the evidence of a criminal offence provided for in article 366 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the district military administration of the Cherkas region for information on the number of internally displaced persons stationed for temporary residence in the area of the population of the district of Uman in the Cherkas region during February and November 2022. Michael Bondar to the head of the government of the National Savings Bank of Ukraine, for the preservation of the operations of the Savings Department on I. Boguna Street, 72, the city of Broda Lviv district. Julius Yatzik to the Managing Director of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals regarding the provision of information and copies of documents. Groups of National Deputies (Jachenka, Kasaya, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the issue of personal control, ensuring a rapid, full and impartial criminal investigation of the facts of falsification of the conclusion of the Medical and Social Expert Commission on the establishment of a disability group to avoid military recruitment. Sergia Dunayeva to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, on providing information on industrial (industrial) parks. Michael Bondar to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the organization of a meeting between representatives of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Voluntary Army to resolve the status of fighters of the Ukrainian Voluntary Army.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-01-m0.u186	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the consideration of the agenda for the day is complete. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. Together we will win the glory of Ukraine!
