ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u1	Glory be to Ukraine, fellows of honor! Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a delegation of the Estonian Republic, headed by Mr. Yuri Ratas, Speaker of Rigikogo Estonia. Let us applaud the distinguished Estonian delegation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, before continuing the plenary meeting tomorrow, I would like to stress the need for unwavering compliance with the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ask that we do not disseminate information about the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Dear National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a single plenary session, so today, according to the decree adopted by us, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war" and the proposal of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good parliamentary tradition, we will begin work with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 293rd day of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. Without results on the battlefield, the rascals continue to engage in barbaric rocket attacks on our cities and villages, attacks by drones on civilian and critical infrastructures in Ukraine. The Ukrainian people are convinced that with us the truth is that God is with us, so the inevitable victory. In spite of all the plans of the aggressor, we, each of us, hold on, work, do everything we can to bring victory closer. Our heroic energies, our communautaires, have been restoring for days what it takes months to work. The defense forces of Ukraine step by step are allowing the Fatherland to be progressively destroyed by the individual composition and technique of the invaders. Unfortunately, in war we lose our heroes. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the defenders and protectors who put their lives on the altar of freedom and independence of Ukraine. Everlasting honor and glory to fallen heroes! Consider, too, the innocent victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Ukraine celebrated the Day of the Land Army, the largest troops in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We wish our soldiers of the Land Army and all who today defend Ukraine from enemy invasion, strong health, strength, endurance, and God’s blessings, our faith, our support, and our love. Let us applaud the soldiers for their self - sacrificing service. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, a photo exhibition by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine's Supreme Council meeting hall is presented in the second floor towers of the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior. I invite you to look at the exhibition and to show respect for the heroes who are approaching our victory and to honor those heroes who gave their lives for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker, before giving your word on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we express our deep gratitude to the Estonian people, the Estonian Parliament, personally for the firm and firm support of Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. Our nations have always had friendly relations, and since the beginning of Russian armed aggression, since 2014, Estonia has been among the leaders of Ukraine's support. The Estonian Parliament was one of the first to recognize Russia’s crime against Ukraine as genocide and the Russian Federation’s power as a terrorist regime. My friend Estonia actively joins our initiatives to bring Russia to justice for crimes, to support the establishment of an international tribunal to investigate them, to step up sanctions against the aggressor state. Estonia is actively involved in the parliamentary dimension of the international Crimea Platform, supports Ukraine's accession to NATO and the EU, provides Ukraine with the necessary military support at present, including winter equipment, military and technical equipment and ammunition. Estonia’s humanitarian aid, including the restoration of social facilities and critical infrastructures, is highly appreciated. We write that we have such reliable friends. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite Mr. Yuri Ratas, the speaker of the Estonian Parliament, to the floor. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Ruslan! Honourable deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends! I am very happy to return to Kiev, the capital of a free, independent and democratic Ukraine. It's a great honor for me to address myself today, and the second time in a year, I'm here. I also want to say that yesterday I had the opportunity in Warsaw to meet with Mrs. Elizabeth Vitek, a marshal at the Polish Seima. And I'm giving you my warmest greetings. For the first time on March 24, I was here, just a month from the beginning of the raid, along with my Lithuanian and Latvian colleagues. I was among the first people, leaders of neighboring countries to visit your country this bad hour. Since then, something has changed and something has not. Unfortunately, the Russian aggression against Ukraine has not changed. This brutal war now lasts almost 300 days. Russian aggression has caused the great suffering of the Ukrainian people — tens of thousands of people killed and millions forced to leave their homes. The Russian Federation is the only country responsible for these consequences. We condemn most strongly the Russian aggressive war against Ukraine. Russian invasions, attacks on civilians, critical infrastructure purchased with energy objects are acts of terror. And in cities like Butch, Borodjanka, Irpine, Mariupol and others, the Russian Federation has committed genocide against women and men, against girls and boys. The Estonian Parliament accepted the application, acknowledging Russian aggression against Ukraine as an international crime. And these are crimes against civilians, humanity and genocide against the Ukrainian people. We condemn the annexation of Ukrainian territories and also declare the Russian regime terrorist. We do not know exactly how and when this war will end, but we do know that it will never end with a Russian victory. History teaches us that responsibility is a very important thing. Estonia supports all efforts to ensure independence, an independent investigation into the crimes Russia has committed in Ukraine. Crimes of war, crime of aggression must be punished. As a result, Estonia is supporting Ukraine in the establishment of a special tribunal to prosecute Russia’s crimes in Ukraine. And Ukraine must also demand and receive compensation from Russia for the damage caused. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, since I was here for the last time, one remains intact as a rock, one thing is the spirit, the spirit of Ukraine, the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people. The will to fight and defeat the aggressor has become even more powerful. You are fighting for the freedom and territorial integrity of your country, but you are also fighting for a free, rightful democratic world. I want to thank all the braves in Ukraine, your soldiers, your honourable deputies and all the Ukrainian leaders. I want to thank you for your resistance, for your courage, for your love of freedom. I thank you for protecting Europe from Russian imperialism. I want to bow my head to all the fallen heroes who have lost their lives in this fight. Dear Mr. Ruslane, honourable deputies, here is the unchangeable thing: Estonia stands beside Ukraine in defense of its will, so it will remain until the occupied territories are freed and justice and justice prevails. Dear friends, there is one change: it is the commitment of international partners to make Russia pay the highest price for its aggression. In recent times, Estonia and other countries have worked together to apply greater and broader sanctions against Russia. The last example of this is a ceiling of Russian oil and oil prices to limit revenue to the Russian budget. It's the right thing to do, but it's not necessary. We need to finally stop the Russian product from selling its raw materials. There should be no oil revenues to the Russian budget, we'll push sanctions, we'll isolate Russia in the international arena. Our political, military, economic support for Ukraine has also increased in recent months. Estonia was among the first to make a contribution to Ukraine with weapons before the start of the war. And we're providing military assistance at over 255 million euros, that's about one third of our defense budget. We will continue to help Ukraine, give what is needed. And it is also clear to us that there is no security in Europe without security in Ukraine. That is why we urge our NATO allies to step up defence assistance to Ukraine, providing both heavy weapons and the PPO system. Our economic and humanitarian assistance focuses on helping Ukraine to winter happily and safely and to rebuild its energy infrastructure. We send warm clothes, food, generators, transformers and all the other components needed to rebuild the Ukrainian energy system. We are also convinced that we cannot wait for the end of the war, and we have already begun to rebuild Ukraine, and we have provided the necessary means to rebuild it. We have been doing this for several months now, focusing on Zitomirsk. And the first thing to do is to rebuild Overc, there's a kindergarten in Malin, 44 buses for Zitomir and other Ukrainian cities to rebuild the public transport park. Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine is Europe. The place of Ukraine in a united European family. Your integration with Euro-Atlantic structures is an essential contribution to the peace and stability of Europe. Since my last visit, Ukraine has obtained an application, and this is a major breakthrough, but only the beginning of the road that has reached your EU membership. We admire your loyalty and your determination to continue to carry out the necessary reforms. Estonia is ready to share our experience of joining the European Union. We will help you to walk in your bright future of membership in the European Union. The day will come, and Ukraine will take the proper place among its members. Ukraine also competes to join NATO. Twenty years ago, Estonia, along with other European countries, received an invitation to join NATO. There will be a bright day when your country, Ukraine, will be invited to join NATO. Estonia is now focusing on ensuring as much support as possible for Ukrainian NATO membership. Dear MPs, the ties between our two parliaments have always been good, but in the wartime we are even closer. Just two weeks ago, 10 percent of our Estonian Parliament, members of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Friendship Group visited Ukraine. Then this is one of the visits in a series of our members to Ukraine and mutual visits by Ukrainian parliamentarians. I would like to welcome Mr. Arsenius Pusharenko, the head of the Ukrainian-Estonian Inter-Parliamentary Group in the Supreme Council, for his outstanding contribution to strengthening ties between our two parliaments. And this week, I am fully confident and grateful. I'm sure after my visit to Ukraine, we'll be able to welcome your deputy head, our first deputy, to Tallinn. But we need to strengthen our ties not only between politicians, but most of all between our peoples. Estonia has now accepted more than 60,000 Ukrainians who were to flee from Russian aggression to escape it. As a result, we have 5 percent more people than we did a year ago in Estonia. 8,000 Ukrainian children attend Estonian schools. We warmly welcomed the Ukrainians in our home and supported them. This is the best example of extraordinary solidarity. Over 80 percent of all the humanitarian aid provided by the Estonian private sector is private companies and NGOs, starting with trucks and finishing with winter clothes for your soldiers. I think that we have support, that is the basis of our friendship, our work together in the commonwealth of our two nations in the coming time. Ladies and gentlemen, on February 24, 2023, we celebrate the 130th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Estonia, the independent state of Estonia. It's been a year since the brutal Russian invasion. I want to express my hope that that day the last Russian soldier will go beyond the internationally recognized Ukrainian borders. Even if I want too much, I want to say one thing for sure: Russia loses this war and Ukraine wins. So the Ukrainian people can decide for themselves what their future will be. Here, Ukraine, along with Estonia, will take its place in the Euro-Atlantic community. We're working for it. Estonia is with you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us thank the distinguished Mr. Speaker and the Estonian delegation for participating in the plenary and for the unreserved support of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u4	We thank once again the distinguished Mr. Ratas and the entire Estonian delegation, as well as all the Estonian people. Ladies and gentlemen, we can sit down. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to give two minutes’ time for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups before discussing the agenda. Members of the MPs and groups, please sign up for the presentation. Gunshoe, "Slut of the People". Will you pass it on to someone? Oh, you're going to perform, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u5	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know there was a G7 summit yesterday and President Vladimir Zelensky took part in it. And actually yesterday, I think it started with a reverse countdown, because at this level, at the level of the world's leaders of the largest states, the most powerful economies, the most powerful armies, there was a unanimous and clear definition that the Russian regime led by Putin would be responsible for the war crimes in Ukraine, that Russia would have to compensate for all the damage done to our nation. I want to point out that this has only been possible because of our heroic Ukrainian Armed Forces, which all these months have been defending sovereignty, territorial integrity and undermining our territories. And so to President Volodymyr Zelenski, who from the first hours of large-scale invasion has taken the principle, the decisive, strong position that we stand and we will prevail. And if the first weeks of many great countries have been compassionate to us, today they are definitely on our side, clearly we are going to win. I want to point out that alongside these important decisions today, the process of rebuilding Ukraine is also taking place. During the days in Tallinn, there was already a second forum for the restoration of Žitomirščina, and this is the first specific working case of the state of the region. Similarly today, a major reconstruction conference will take place in Paris. You and I are passing a number of important laws on reforming the state for future recovery. So, friends, we're working, winning for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u6	Heroim Slava! Arseny Mikhailovich, thank you. Please, "Ukrainian Revenge", Slavic Antonina Kerimovna. No, no, we've got Ukraine's Remembrance. Excuse me, Jaroslav Romanovich, I'm sorry, Voice, Voice, I'm sorry. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I'd like to talk to you about good things today. I invite you, here, really, not everyone is in the hall right now, but who are the representatives of the interfractional band Plast, the support of Plast in the Supreme Council, to approach the rostrum. Today, starting in 2014, we will traditionally transmit the Bethlehem Peace Fire to the Supreme Council. Of course, for the first time, even during COVID, we were able to invite the canvasses to the Supreme Council Hall and pass it on to the speaker. But today's going to be something different, please get everyone ready. This tradition will not die, despite the fact that the invaders, the racists, are trying to hinder us in every way, and this year the Bethlehem Fire of Peace will be passed on to Parliament, as it is now going forward to the occupied cities. Now, please tell my colleague Natal about the symbolism of fire.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u8	Bethlehem’s fire of peace takes place where Christ was born on the longest night to bring light, light of peace and light of victory, light of truth and light of honesty, the light for which many Ukrainians are dying. This light is passed from Bethlehem, brought to Vienna, and from there Austrian scouts pass it on to Ukrainian platters. To that end, it is done year after year to keep in mind the basics. And by the support we have today, we see that simple things like humanity, simple things like goodness and truth, simple things like conscience, many more in whom they live. So truth and light will always prevail. And Bethlehem’s fire of peace and the work of each of us will result.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u9	And now Slavic Antonina Kerimovna, "Deliverance of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u10	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The first part of December showed that the Ukrainian people are being struck with dignity. This winter season is by far the most difficult time in Ukraine’s independence. At the same time, for many Ukrainians, it did not end. As of February 24, fellow citizens live simultaneously with a dream, a purposeful goal — to defeat the aggressor, to maintain Ukrainian independence, and sovereignty. Ukrainian defenders continue to defend our nation’s liberation. Even in the most complex areas, particularly in the Bahamas, the enemy is smashing its best forces against the wall of justice and heroism of the Ukrainian army. That is why Russia is engaging in open - minded terrorism at the national level and is fighting in Ukraine’s civilian population. Eight mass fires on critical infrastructure objects are intended to leave the entire Ukrainian people without electricity, heating, gas, and water in winter. How does this differ in principle from the use of weapons of mass impression? Instead, Russian propagandists believe that their conscience is clean. But unless it can be pure what isn't in principle -- the question is probably rhetorical. The forces of the aggressor did not reach the goal, but they did the opposite. Ukrainians are stocked with willows, generators, autonomous gas stoves, and everything else that will be useful if they are limited to the centralized supply of energy. One topic is to control the effective work of more than 5,000 integrity points that enable people to survive this winter. The MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" firmly believes that for over 9 months we have demonstrated our ability to make powerful resistance to attacks by the aggressor in all dimensions. This winter will not be an exception. We remember that each day our people draw near to victory. It's gonna be Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u11	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Why are our warriors on the fore? They not only stand for their homes, for their families, for their families – they stand for the truth. They stand for the rule of law not to last in the rule of law if we call ourselves a state of law. They are worthy of the wages and pensions of Ukrainian citizens. We therefore advocate that pensioners in occupied areas receive a pension, and we today make appropriate amendments to the legislative base. They are not to be traded by State sovereignty. So the bill, which defines how members of the Constitutional Court are elected, foresees that we stand back for this held sovereignty on parity rights, conditions with our international partners. They support democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, religion, and freedom of the media. And that's why we stand for those amendments to the Media Act, which are regulated with the European Commission, which will allow the media to develop freely, so that they don't close at the request of someone on top, and so that we can bring the truth and our opinion to all Ukrainian citizens accordingly. So today is an important day in parliamentary life. And this day of parliamentary life has to be completely in line with what's going on on ahead. We defend national sovereignty. We protect freedom of speech. We fight corruption in all authorities, echelons of power, including the judicial system of power. And today we're going to be supporting these bills in this session room. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u13	Heroic glory! Please welcome to the words of Mikhail Mikolaiovich Papiev, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u14	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, at a time when Ukrainian soldiers are bravely protecting Ukraine, we need to demonstrate our consciousness at the same time and provide a reliable backdrop. What do I mean? I mean, first of all, it's social calm and social stability in our state. Let me give you an example. We have recently adopted a law that is perfectly timely, absolutely right to transfer the functions of the Social Insurance Fund to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. This is the fund that provides hospital bills, birth and care for a child that provides regressive pay for people who have suffered damage and injury to their production. And so to this day, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees have been adopted, and I've recently learned how to perform its functions, how much social benefits will be provided from January 1st. So, I can tell you today -- I'm first of all referring to the Honorable Galina Mikolayevna -- look, please listen to the committee's executive directorate of this fund, because today they are consciously under the direction of Sainteine, who was just announced yesterday to be in custody of 125 million dollars, they are currently sabotaged by the implementation of both the Ukrainian law and the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. We don't have the right to allow regressors -- these are disabled miners -- because of the inaction of this executive directorate, they don't get their money from January 1, 2023. We need to do everything we can to ensure that these collaborators are defeated and that our people receive the social protection of our nation at the right time. This is our responsibility at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". After that group "Trust", Bakunec Pavel Andryovich. And, dear fellows, after that he will appear before us. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u16	Dear Ukrainians, the delegation of European Solidarity led by our leader, Peter Prashenko, has only returned from the United States, where the Ukrainian people have received the prestigious prize of freedom of name Bush-Tecker and the full assurance of our strategic partners that the United States will remain with Ukraine and help us win. At all the meetings, we raised questions about the need to strengthen Ukraine's military support, and so at all the meetings we heard questions about the importance of continuing to reform and preserve Ukraine as a democratic state, where there is democracy, where there is respect for an independent parliament, the rights of opposition and where there is freedom of speech. Sadly, there are major problems with freedom of speech in Ukraine today. And it is unacceptable that in times of war, the time of the dark ones of the worst of the Yanukovich era is returning. There is no explanation for disconnection from the T2 system of three pro - Ukrainian patriotic TV channels. The directs, the 5th and the espressos are working on the paradigm of Ukrainian news. Part of this team is volunteering and fighting on the front, the team is losing on the front, there are soldiers killed yesterday who were journalists, operators, directors. And at that time, someone in the back pressed the button, turning off the TV. We need to protect the principles of freedom of speech with you. Once again, we appeal to the authorities to immediately return these television channels to the digital language of the T2 system, to stop the political censorship, to turn these channels into the so-called marathon, which today has turned into the worst examples of the propaganda roadside TV, and to stop planting dungeons, censorship, and the creation of state-based language.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two speakers left, but we'll do them after the next performance. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I ask that you remain calm and do not walk in the hall, for today Mrs. Robert Metzola, the distinguished president of the European Parliament, participates in our plenary session remotely. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] The Ambassador of the European Union, Head of the EU Representation in Ukraine Matti Maasikas, is present in the guest room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please pay attention to the screen, and we'll introduce it again. Dear colleagues, the President of the European Parliament, Mrs Robert Metzola. Let's say hello again. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, Madam President, dear Robert, first of all allow me to thank you, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, for the firm position of the European Parliament in restoring the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, for your solidarity and support of the Ukrainian people in their Euro-integration aspirations, for your trustworthy shoulders in the fight against the cruel aggressor who destroys our cities and villages, who destroys our cities and villages, who kills civilians. Today, Ukraine, which is forced on the battlefield to choose its freedom and right to exist, needs more than ever the support of true friends. That is why we highly appreciate the European Parliament's position on all issues related to the Russian occupation war, including the recent resolutions of 23 November 2022 on the recognition of the Russian Federation as a sponsor of terrorism and the State using the means of terrorism. Dear Madam President, dear Roberta, first of all, I would like to thank you personally for the level of support Ukraine receives. I want to thank you for your personal leadership in supporting Ukraine. I want to inform you that the Ukrainian Parliament, as promised, is honouring its way of implementing seven recommendations from the European Union. We have already passed all the necessary laws, and today we will adopt the final three laws that will open the way for us to fully negotiate Ukraine's membership in the European Union. So thank you for your support. The Ukrainian Parliament will do its utmost to meet you on our return to our European home. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the President of the European Parliament, Mr Roberta Metzoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u18	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Stefanchuk. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, it is a pleasure to join you today. You know, I'm happy to have a part in this session when you're about to adopt the most important three laws that need to be adopted in order to start an important negotiation process, a full-fledged process of negotiations on membership in the European Union. I'm glad you're doing these seven recommendations. In this regard, I would like to thank the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for handling these difficult issues so properly. I am convinced that all your efforts will bear fruit, especially in this regard. We're very excited about the work that's been done with the discovery of the U.K. oligarch register in your reform of all the agencies involved in the fight against corruption. And we also admire that you've adopted an anti-corruption strategy by the age of 25. Today you will again take steps to protect your democracy. Today you will ensure the freedoms and rights of those who belong to national minorities in Ukraine. And you're also improving the selection procedures for the judges of the Constitutional Court. I'm aware of all the difficulties you're facing, but consultation and dialogue are vital. Today, this is another proof that we can work together to produce positive results for Ukrainian citizens. This kind of work that you do today makes you one step closer to being a member of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the critical role of the Supreme Council in leading Ukraine towards membership in the European Union. I just admire your efforts to harmonize your legislation with the European Union. I am confident that the European Parliament will continue to help the Ukrainian Parliament join the European community, because the future of Ukraine is the European future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much. Thank you for the attachment. I hope it will be an inspiration to the national MPs today to vote on the final three bills. We're starting a fight in Parliament for the European Union. Thank you for your inspiration. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Together to victory! Thank you, Your Honor. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Ladies and gentlemen, please take part in the signal vote. [[12:53:06]] For 219 For 219, against 9, 7 held. Everything as usual. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that those who have not been able to speak for two minutes will speak after Metzola's speech, and we will proceed immediately to the consideration of the agenda, and in four minutes we will proceed to the consideration of the issues. So please invite the deputies to the sitting room. The word is given to Paul Andriovich Bakuntz. After that, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished nationals! Dear Ukrainian people! Of course, we are with you, twisting the days of the ore when the professional calendar shows the day of the high profession, the Day of the Land Army of Ukraine, we sincerely welcome these bravest of all of us and give them a low bow for their bravery, giving us the opportunity to work with you and all of our country. Of course, when we talk about courage, the courage of our protectors and protectors, we want to thank them, and we want to say that every Ukrainian clearly applies to help our most courageous to win this long - awaited victory. Among our protectors and protectors are those who, unfortunately, are in captivity. And we thank the office, we thank Guru for doing this, for trying to liberate our bravest. Today, however, I want each of you to pay attention to Christmas celebrations, and Ukrainian families should sit at the table with their entire family, especially those who are in captivity. We believe that a young girl named Yule, a man whose husband Vladislav, had completed a land academy to protect Mariupol, had been taken captive, and sat with his father, Mikola, who was protecting our country, at the Christmas table, and all the captives would be returned home. Praise the Armed Forces! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Dear colleagues, and after that, we are moving on to the issues of the day’s order.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u22	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, the Honorable People's Deputies, the citizens of Ukraine! There is a theme that seeks to unite the entire political community, the entire session hall, the executive and legislative branches of power. This is about adapting our veterans, demobilized from the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations that protect the state to civilian life. On December 6, this year, the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights had a professional discussion with me. The participants included not only national deputies but also representatives of the executive branch, all ministries that touched on the problem, as well as representatives of veteran organizations and the public. The task is to create a strategy like demobilized Armed Forces and other military formations, citizens have to return to civilian life. We talked about the reform of medicine, which is now almost 55 percent of its work being served by military personnel, how to divide into military medicine and civilian medicine. We talked about the creation and improvement of rehabilitation centres that are operating in Ukraine today, how to reform them to really be central to the Ukrainian Armed Forces veteran. We also talked about how to adapt to civilian life by creating a job for a former military official, he has the right to have extra-curricular employment in public authorities and local self-government. Because it's the people who went through the battle attempt and the stamina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Once again, I appeal to all Ukrainian national deputies and government representatives to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the progress of the plenary session taken in Parliament before the hour of the conclusion of our work. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you have been given, and we are moving on to the issues of the agenda. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed in Bill 5369, this is the President's immediate bill. The draft law on the abolition of the Kyiv District Administrative Court and the establishment of the Kyiv District Administrative Court. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, we're already starting to work, take your seats, after all! How many times can you talk? I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:59:21]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two against, two against, and we vote, do I understand? Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favor, two in favor. Write down only those factions and groups that wish to speak. Please give the word to Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u25	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u26	My friends, welcome to the Jubilee! Today, just 20 months ago, the President announced a bill on the elimination of the main corruption of the judicial system of the District Administrative Court to the Supreme Council. 20 months. Much less Ukrainian military needed time to free the invaders of Kiev, Chernigovishte, Sumsten, Hersonian, Kharkishte. I very much hope that today we will finally put a stop to this issue. And it will be clear by vote who is responsible for maintaining corruption in the judicial system and who is responsible for resolving the issue once and for all. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u27	Thank you. The word is given to Puzijchuk's national deputy, Andriy Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u28	My dear friends, I would like to say that our faction will vote for this so that there will be no provocation. But just think about it, in order to eliminate them as judges, remove them, three, five judges, we need to eliminate the court with you. If we follow that logic, if we have one corrupt minister, we need to eliminate the Cabinet of Ministers. If, for example, there is a corrupt official somewhere in the President's Office, we need to eliminate the President's Administration. This is the way to nowhere. And what we have to do today to get rid of a few corrupt judges, to really adopt the Law on the Elimination of the Court, is to say that dozens of judicial reforms that have been carried out are nothing but emptiness. And all the presidents who have declared judicial reform, please apologize to the people because it was a lie. Next. Please tell me why reformed power structures did not start proper criminal persecution, did not really put in place those judges who violate the law, which are corrupt, including the NABU, including the prosecutor of a special anticorruption, and so on. This suggests that the system is not reformed as it must work. This suggests that the power structures that have been reformed and anti-corruption bodies are not working. And this is a great challenge for the President today, before Parliament, before all of us. You can't swap ideas and do idiotic things without making real changes. And that's why we're definitely going to vote. But think about what we are doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u29	The word is given to Slavic Antonini Kerimovni, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u30	Yes, colleagues, when this bill was registered, it was April 2021. Today a state of war has been established in our country. The Ukrainian law on the legal regime of martial law, in particular article 10, makes it clear that the powers of the courts cannot be suspended in the course of the war. In addition, the bill’s map contains three addenda to the committee’s decision. This is the conclusion of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice and the Institute of Law. And they all make significant remarks to this bill. In particular, it is emphasized that until the Higher Qualification of Judges has been created, it cannot be approved. As you and I all know, the Supreme Court of Judges is only in the process of formation. There is also the question of what to do with the number, there are 40,000 cases that are being dealt with in the court. And this is certainly a new court order, this hearing will first lead to a violation of the rights of the parties to the trial, as also stressed by the National Association of Lawyers of Ukraine. In view of what is said, if this law is supported, it is only to support and enforce the law. That is why I insist on my right to amend the second reading, based on article 102 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u31	The word is given to Irina Volodymyr's Hero, the faction of European Solidarity. Then, Maslov, after this, we vote, honorary colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, two years ago President Zelensky brought to the Supreme Council as an immediate bill on the abolition of the Kyiv District Administrative Court. Then, over the last two years, the CDC was destroyed, the upgrades of the courts failed, the RU was dissolved, and the Wolf and the Wolf Justice ruled the ball because it was convenient for the authorities to have their own Handicrafted, run by the Bank's Judge. And only when our strategic partners of the United States imposed sanctions against Judge Vuka did the government wake up, the Parliament woke up. And our faction demands that this bill be adopted on the basis and in general, to eliminate the wolf and the wolf justice. But let's not forget that the United States gives us such a red eye that we need to react to, and the card, not only for Mr. Vuk, has been imposed sanctions against Dercert, has been imposed against Portnov. The question remains: Who allowed Mr. Portnow, who was in charge of this court, essentially to leave the country? And why is the Ripper you've all supported here, by creating a commission of names for President Bush of the investigation, still being Ukraine's national deputy? Are we going to solve this issue in the complex? Perhaps sanctions will be imposed against all enemies of Ukraine in the same way in the Ukrainian Parliament and we will get rid of not only the "wolve" justice, but all the Kremlin agents who have been here for many years? Well, today, we propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt this important bill, where we support President Zelensky on the basis of, in general, assigning the Head of the Supreme Council to sign these bills today, eliminating the "wolve" of justice. Ukrainian courts must be democratic, independent, and honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u33	The word is given to the national deputy Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich. Dear colleagues, and after this vote, I ask you to take your seats. Please, Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u34	Honorable Presidium, distinguished fellow national MPs! One of the most important values of democratic society is trust — trust in courts and judges. The mere restoration of trust between society and the judicial system is the main purpose of this judicial reform. So actually, colleagues, actually this bill isn't just about the liquidation of a court, it's not about individual judges. This bill on the elimination of the symbol is a symbol of such mistrust. And that's why, you know, today is finally going to end the story of this ostrich and, unfortunately, the sad judgment. In view of this, I ask that the maximum number of deputies in this room support this bill. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. Please take your seats, we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft law on the abolition of the Kyiv District Administrative Court and the establishment of the Kyiv District Administrative Court (legislative registration number 5369). Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[13:09:14]] For 310 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law on the liquidation of the Kyiv District Administrative Court and the establishment of the Kiev City District Administrative Court (legislative registration number 5369). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:49]] For 310 Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u36	Colleagues, we suggest that the Head of the Supreme Council sign this bill, which has just been adopted in general, and immediately send the President of Ukraine for signature. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[13:10:20]] For 315 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u37	Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, next bill 5370. He, we agreed, no discussion. From the procedure? Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we sincerely welcome the vote for the liquidation of the Kyiv District Administrative Court. And I'm drawing your attention, Your Honor Mr. Ruslane, four factions signed up to discuss this bill, and they received two minutes' notice. Then, according to the Rules, you gave a speech to the "Serve of the People" who didn't sign up, but you gave them two minutes, not one. I'm just paying attention: it was written -- two, Maslov -- one. I'll show you in the photo. I'm just paying attention to the Secretariat and the Apparatus to keep an order here for one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u39	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, we know that whoever's writing down is 2 minutes, which fraction is next – 1 minute. Maslov didn't break the Rules. If there was any technical nuance, I'd like to draw your attention to that, too. Because he was warned he had 1 minute. All fair, all by the Rules. Dear colleagues, let us move immediately to making a decision. Bill 5370 is a draft of the Act amending Chapter XI of the Act on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges. I propose to adopt Bill 5370 as a basis. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:04]] For 323 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter XI of the Act on Judicial and Judicial Status (Registration No. 5370). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:35]] For 326 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, it is still practically uncontroversial. The next bill is a Euro-Integration bill, our requirement to implement. This is a draft of the National Minorities (Communitys) Act of Ukraine (Registration No. 8224). We only agreed to make one amendment. From "European Solidarity," who will it be? Windstorm. And we vote now, please don't split. It's a meagre law. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please fix the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, in accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution, laws and other legal and regulatory acts shall be adopted on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine and shall comply with it. Articles 10, 11, 53, 92 and 119 of the Constitution refer to national minorities rather than to the community as the word used in the name. The term "national community" is not mentioned in the Basic Law. It is established and understood not only in Ukraine, but also throughout the world, the term "national minorities" is used in all legislations in Ukraine, international agreements, EU legal instruments in this area. The opening of negotiations on Ukraine's accession to the EU, endorsed by the European Commission, is about national minorities and not about communities. The use in the name and throughout the text of the basic law, the bill, the constructions in the brackets that contain the quasi-legal term is groundless, unwarranted and unwarranted. Please support my revisions, which provide for the deletion of the incomprehensible term "community" from.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u41	Please take a brief seat on the committee and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u42	The committee rejected the appeal, considering that the national communities of Ukraine had requested that this name be approved by law. We also complied with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, taking into account what the law, the bill, listed as national minorities. Thus, the rules of the Constitution have been respected, as well as those of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, do you insist on voting or not? We insist. What's the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u44	Two, three. Two, three.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u45	That's how we put the 2th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u46	Okay, 2nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u47	And then the 2nd, and then the 3rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u48	I'll take one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u49	Are they counted or unaccounted for, Your Honor? They're both rejected. There's Amendment 2, it's rejected. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:21]] For 111 The decision is not taken. 3 Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Vítarović. Let's not put it in. Let's go. Let's put the law in general. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft National Minorities (Community) Act of Ukraine (Registration No. 8224). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:02]] For 324 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the next bill is simply to be presented by Mr. Whisperal. Let's go through it, because he's coming now, and we'll be back when Mr. Whisperal gets here. Okay? So that he can represent himself. There must be a whisper. Yeah, after one then. There's no objection. We won't vote then. Next 0161. We agreed not to discuss it. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the field of high technology, aviation and space. I propose to adopt draft Law No. 0161 as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:09]] For 332 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I'm asking all those who are currently taking pictures, recording or writing a message on the information network, you can do it an hour after our session is over. Do we have a deal? I'm asking you very much. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made to us, signed by all the leaders of factions and groups, regarding Decree 8245. Dear colleagues, can we turn it on and vote now? So let's do it. The leaders of the MPs and groups addressed me with a letter of urgent consideration at today’s session of the 8245 Registration Order, on the approval of proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to athletes from the Russian Federation and other states. I'm betting on the proposal to be included in the agenda of the project's day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:29]] For 324 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing that the entire project be adopted by Decree No. 8245, on the approval of proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to athletes from the Russian Federation and other states. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:04]] For 328 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, we agreed without discussion, is 8269. This is a draft decree for the execution by the heads of the military administrations of the Kakhovsky and the Skadovian areas of the Herson area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session Project Rule 8269. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:51]] For 331 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administrations of the Kakhovsky and Scadovian areas of the Herson area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 8269). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:27]] For 338 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next draft of Decree 8270. This is a draft decree for the execution by the heads of the military administrations of the population in Zaporzik and Žitomir areas of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:07]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've agreed two minutes from the EC faction and we're voting. Please, Arthur Gerasimov. Dear colleagues, after that we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u50	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, why can't we vote for this? I'll give you a simple explanation. It's not the first try, we're the first to fail. When it comes to frontal territories, occupied territories, no questions, all Conciliating agrees, and we are going through these issues without discussion. Now they're trying to re-enter the rear and the back of the community into this mechanism. There are problems there, there are no problems there -- it's not a question for us, it's a question for the district government. And you can't use the mechanism that you and I have carefully developed for frontal, frontal areas and territories that are now occupied to the rear, because tomorrow it's going to be the Lviv region, the Ternopil region, the Carpathian region and so on. Let the district council handle the problems on its own, and it has sufficient authority to do so. So, honourable colleagues, just because this is here, and this is the second attempt, the back area, I'm asking everyone not to support this bill, because this precedent cannot be created, can't be created. Because I'm going to repeat, tomorrow we're going to face the fact that Lviv, Ternopil, Vincenzo, Kirovograd and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administration of the locations in Zaporzik and Žitomir areas of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 8270). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:32]] For 265 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Next, we agreed, there will be no discussion, 6556. This is a draft decree to change and establish the boundaries of the town of Wilkow Ishmael district of Odessa. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision amending and establishing the boundaries of the town of Wilkow Ishmael district of Odessa (registration number 6556). Are the national MPs ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:24:14]] For 334 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next project, we agreed, not to discuss it. This is a draft decree for the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists in 2021 (registration number 8272). I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists in 2021 (registration No. 8272). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:55]] For 330. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next draft of the law, we also agreed, without discussion, without amendment. This is 6341: the draft Law on Fundamental Principles of State Policy in the Field of Approval of Ukrainian National and Civil Identity. I'd like to make a proposal to accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal ones. What? Wait a second. 6341. Oh, yes, sorry, 6341. Instead of 81 revisions — 5 minutes, Cosmiakin. Right? You just didn't get it right, I thought it was. Please, Cosmackin, five minutes later, we vote. Dear colleagues, don't split up. I didn't realize what the question was. Vasil Ivanovich, I'm sorry, they gave you the word. How long do you need, Vasil Ivanovich? Give Mr. Mokan two minutes, and then we'll vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u52	My colleagues, thank you so much for your word. A little unexpected, because, in principle, they were actually working with both the national deputies and with the central executive authorities, they agreed, all the remedies went through. It's just the uniqueness of the bill is that in 30 years of independence, 31 years of age, we don't really have any system law that regulates the scope of affirmation of Ukrainian national and civil identity. The components of this new state policy are national patriotic education, military patriotic education and civic education. I urge everyone to support this bill, I call for a start to that state policy and to that sphere, which, in my opinion, is one of the elements of Ukraine's national security. And I'll say from myself, I want to thank everyone who's joined both the working group and the right hand side, in fact, we're going to do something that we haven't done before the Parliament's call, by introducing at a qualitatively new level a new area to establish our Ukrainian national and civil identity. I'm counting on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u53	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, please ask the people's deputies to take their seats. Vasil Ivanovich, you vote from here, right? Dear friends, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Policy in the Field of Approval of Ukrainian National and Civil Identity (Registration No. 6341). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:01]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Next draft Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Ninth Assembly Counting Commission We also agreed, without discussion, to vote on this issue, this is Project 8281. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a draft Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 8281) as a whole. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:48]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two other bills are also uncontested, 8196, 8197. So I'll start with the first one. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to promote the restoration of Ukraine's energy infrastructure. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:30:42]] For 331 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next, 8197. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to promote the restoration of Ukraine's energy infrastructure (registration No. 8197). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:20]] For 332 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Honorary colleagues, who are final without discussion, are the draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the Bureau of Economic Security of Ukraine, the authorities of the State and other state authorities who exercise powers in the field of economic security, which may have led to a decrease in revenues to state and local budgets (registration No. 8264). I propose to accept, in general, the proposal of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Regulation 8264. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:32:14]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we're going back to the bill. Sergey Alexanderovich Saptala appeared. This is Bill 8271, which is a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and other Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of military service in military or military conditions. Let's say hello to Mr. Whispertall first. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I propose to include this issue in the agenda of the daily session, the registration number of Law 8271. Please vote. [[13:33:34]] For 290 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:33:53]] For 274 Decision taken. Please welcome to the word of Shaptal Sergio Alexandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all! Thank you so much for letting us address you. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has before it a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences and other legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of military service under military or military conditions. On February 24, Russia launched a full - scale invasion of Ukraine. Since then, the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other elements of the defence force have protected the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our nation. In doing so, military officials display courage, heroism, and integrity. At the same time, military commanders have repeatedly turned to the problem of individual military personnel disobeying, refusing to carry out war orders, voluntarily abandoning military positions and battlefields. There are also cases of arbitrary abandonment of duty stations and military units, alcohol and narcotics in a combat environment that has a very negative impact on military discipline, undermines the military readiness of the unit, endangers the lives of other military personnel, and sometimes leads to the loss of a special warehouse. The sum of the above leads to the breakdown of battle tasks, the irreversible loss of a special warehouse, and the capture of enemy positions. The Ukrainian Armed Forces are fully supported by the draft Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, which was introduced by the national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u55	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. Let us once again thank the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Sergio Alexandrovich Shaptali. [[Applause]] Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. Please take your seat, please. Dear colleagues, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure. Therefore, I ask you to register: two in favour, two in opposition to this bill being discussed. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I don't mind, but there are factions who want to speak. Please register two factions. This is Pavlovenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Who will act? I can't hear you. Who's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Sergio Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u57	Sergey Alekseev, please. Please turn on Sergei Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the essence of this bill is to increase the sanctions for criminal offences such as failure to comply with the order, desertion, abandonment of the battlefield, etc., and to raise responsibility for a number of administrative offences. It also deprives the court of the possibility of mitigating punishment or releasing punishment for similar crimes. We are all well aware that responsibility for wrongdoing and consequences in peacetime in the army, in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and in wartime has a completely different effect, can have tragic consequences. That's why we're going to support this bill. And we know that only the discipline and systems of action of our Ukrainian Armed Forces will lead to Ukraine's victory in the course of the fighting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u59	The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos". After that, one more minute of Jonas of the Servant of the People, and we will vote. Please, Andrew Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u60	Please, Bobrovsky's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u61	Samantha Bobrowski, please. Samantha Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u62	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. First of all, it's very nice to see the Chief of Staff of our Armed Forces of Ukraine in the hall. Thank you very much for your service, and we keep our routine with the Armed Forces to the end. Those who work with the Armed Forces and ride to the front serve, are volunteers and so forth, and are often able to see a number of problems that arise from the side of the military - bound, subordinates and commanders. Of course, there are objective things that are set forth in this bill and that need to increase the responsibility for disobedience, alcohol, drug abuse, and so on and so forth. But I'm asking you to pay attention to two things that are changing here. And I don't think there's enough reason for this whole bill to be adopted. I also have the support of colleagues. This includes the article, the changes to articles 69, 75. I ask the second reading, along with the General Staff, to work on these two articles so that we understand well the consequences of the gravity of any crime in the five articles introduced in these two to 69th and 75th. Please read each one of you who are indifferent, who works with the Armed Forces, and understand all the responsibility and all the hybridity of the judicial system today, and others, including the disposition of the commanding officer to the commander. It's very practical and very painful things can be. And I'm asking all my colleagues to read it themselves and work on the second reading, not to rush into acceptance today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u63	Please, Ionushas Sergey Kostinovich. Dear colleagues, after that, we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, this bill has been worked on by our entire committee. We worked with our military, along with the Ministry of Defense. Yes, we understand that there are questions in this bill about the criminal responsibility of our military. But, dear fellows, we were all here on March 3, and we understood that we must make difficult decisions, but they must be made today. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the request to support our military, to support the Minister of Defense and to vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences and other legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of military service in military or military conditions (registration No. 8271). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:41:55]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I request. We have here the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. He came with a particular problem to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us, perhaps today, decide on it and vote on it as a whole, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, friends, specifically, who's against having this one today. Voice, do I get it right? Who's against it besides the Voice faction, who's against criminal responsibility for it. Smart against yet, right? Against criminal liability for deserters. Dear colleagues, look. [[B in m in s a l in]] I asked who, you said, no, there won't be a line. I came to you, not to offend you. No, I won't give you my word. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, do you realize that this will then be a vote we don't know when for this bill? Do you realize the level of that responsibility? Yeah, two minutes off, I'm asking the faction leaders and groups to come over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, there is consensus. Thank you all. Dear colleagues, we have reached consensus, as I think. I have given my word, my right to reply, to the Voice and to the Razumkov, and after that we are voting on this bill as a whole, my honourable colleagues. Thank you. From Voice, who's it gonna be? Alexander Yuriovna, will you be from Voice? Sasha, will you be from Voice or won't you be entitled to a lineup? Samantha Bobrowski, please. Then Smartow, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, we urge the Hall not to vote, not to support the vote in the second reading and in general, because it is irresponsible. It is worth working on the second reading, especially articles 69 and 75. And the explanatory note that was given in the room, it's just a reference, a copy: Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V. That's not how it works. That's the first one. It is the responsibility of those who serve and obey orders or who fail to appear in time. Please show court practice and precedents. We understand the stick of these two ends very well. And there will be no change to this bill, you will vote on it today or you will not vote on it. That's not what you do, it's just irresponsible of your colleagues you go to on the front.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Brainy, and let's go to the vote after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it was thought that the intellectuals were deserters. Fortunately, there are very few deserters in the Ukrainian army. And to make sure, it's very easy to push buttons in the room. Unlike many in this room, I was both in Bachmath and in Herson. And believe me, there's a lot of people out there who make it so that we can push the buttons. So let's think before we say something and do something. We can't all go under the same ridge. Yes, there are those who leave their positions. But there are those who are honestly fighting and protecting us that we can work here in a peaceful room. Please keep that in mind. In general, it may not be logical to support it today. And we need to talk to the military, not just the command. The middle chain has a different position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences and other legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of military service under military conditions or in combat situations (Registration No. 8271). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:56:32]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let us once again thank the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Sergio Alexandrovich. Welcome! [[Applause]] Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on the signing of this bill without delay. And we didn't vote on the second OASK bill, there were two of them, there was 5369, and there was the other 5370. Clearly, both must be signed without delay to make sense. That's why I'm putting to the vote a motion for immediate signature and referral to the President for the signature of Bill 5370, today voted in general, and Bill 8271, just today voted in general. Please vote. [[13:57:48]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u72	Thank you, colleagues. We're moving on in the daytime. 8264 we have already voted. Dear colleagues, next bill 8198. This is a draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" on the assignment of pensions to persons who live in a temporarily occupied territory or in areas where fighting is taking place. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, 8198. Please vote. [[13:59:06]] For 304 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:59:28]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, who will be? Sign up: two for, two for, please. Please, Francis Igor Petrovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u73	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, it is absolutely right and necessary. It secures the rights of our pensioners, our citizens, who are not currently in a position to make a three-month application for a pension in temporary occupied areas. If they fail to do so in fact, they cannot claim a pension for the rest of their lives by working in Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. So I ask everyone to support this bill, and I am confident that we must ensure the interests of our citizens who are now in a temporarily occupied territory and return them to Ukraine with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u74	Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u75	May I have your word, Mr. Head, Arthur Gerasimov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u76	Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u77	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! We think this bill is right, "European solidarity" will support it in the first reading. But you know what I'd like to draw your attention to. Look what we're doing here: we guarantee the payment of pensions to people who were in occupied territory. But did you know that there is still criminal conduct and an open case against President Peter Prashenko for paying pensions for occupied territory, water supply, coal miners' wages, because these are Ukrainians, these are our people. And the case is open to whom? – Portnova, which is now under United States sanctions, our biggest partner today in our opposition to the aggressor country. And I just want to, you know, go to the law enforcement agencies right now. Because, look, the person who initiated the sanctions is clearly an enemy. We are now adopting a law here that guarantees the payment of pensions to people who were in occupied territory. And so far, criminal conduct has been discovered, and it's being investigated, it's being spent, it's our famous (in paws) The D.B.I. is referring to the fact that pensions, wages, and, for example, water payments were paid in the occupied area. So, you know, I think the war, it's very clear that there's no gray -- it's black and white. And today we can't leave a lot of decisions that have been taken wrongly in previous years, I mean in the last three years, regardless of ours. So I'm talking to you, get out of here. If Parliament is already making such decisions, you too may need to close these shameful matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u79	Please give Volodymyr the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u80	Vladimir Tsabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, really, after 10 months of war, thank God we've mentioned this problem, because the problem is, it means 10 months of full-scale invasion, but the war has been going on for 8 years and the problem has long existed. So people can't get a pension while they're in occupied areas. But the decision proposed by this bill, eight years after the start of the war and 10 months after the full-scale invasion, is quite crude. I mean, it's very desirable that this issue be resolved more thoroughly, along with the department of profile, along with the Human Rights Council. I'm just going to give you a few comments that were just to make it clear. For example. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council points out that the bill does not take into account the interests of those who have left the temporarily occupied territory, that is, they have left, they have registered as PPO in the established order, but before they were in occupied territories, they were unable to file their pension papers on time, and this law does not include them. I mean, it worked. It turns out that the person who has not received a pension for four, five, six months, has left and has received the status of VPO, who will not be subject to this law, will not be able to receive a pension from the date of its commencement. I also note that the bill did not provide for the possibility of a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. We have three kinds of pensions: the loss of a breadwinner, the disability and the age – that is, the third is not foreseen. And so on. The Pension Fund also says that the bill needs to be finalized. So, colleagues, I urge you, let's not take it up, especially on the second reading, let's work with the Pension Fund, with the Ministry of Social Policy, so that it's a more thorough question to be resolved, not for the new year very quickly, so that it turns out that it's not all solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u82	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And after that, Tsimabuluk Mikhailovich. And then we vote, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! What is the country’s potential? This is definitely the area, the availability of water, it's GDP, it's GDP per capita. But let's face it, it's not worth it without the people who live in those areas. And by this bill, I am absolutely convinced that it will now unite more than 300 people's deputies, we determine our attitude towards our citizens regardless of where they live. And now they live in the most difficult conditions and in very difficult territories. So here we have nothing to talk about, we have to unite and support our citizens, and show that we are Ukraine, and we all appreciate every Ukrainian wherever he lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u84	Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u85	Thank you. Mikola Tsimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! First of all, I thank the main author and all the co-sponsors of this bill. In fact, it is necessary, and, as Mr. Fries said, it restores social justice with regard to the right of citizens to form a pension, I emphasize. We at the Committee on Social Policy discussed and endorsed the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis and shorten the deadlines for second reading. Here the colleagues made specific comments, we definitely work them out. The law is essential, and it says that it restores social justice, for according to the legislation in force, a person has the right to establish a retirement or age within three months. If she doesn't make it, she loses that right. We restore social justice, including those with disabilities. Fatherland votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we are moving on to making a decision. I propose the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On compulsory government pension insurance" for the purpose of assigning pensions to persons who live in a temporarily occupied territory or in areas where hostilities are taking place (registration No. 8198). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:08:22]] For 274 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8198. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:08:47]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 20 of the bill "On the Court of Auditors", article 208, with the symbol 2 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", the Supreme Council appoints the members of the Court of Auditors. The Committee on Budget Affairs conducted a vacancy tender for a member of the Court of Auditors. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. In accordance with the Rules and decisions of the Committee, the following agenda is proposed. to consider this issue, I apologize, the order of the matter. A report from the Committee on Budget Affairs — up to 3 minutes; statements from MPs and groups — up to 16 minutes; speeches from national MPs — up to 6 minutes; ratings voting, the identification of one candidate with the largest number of votes, the taking of decisions based on the results of the ratings vote, as agreed at the Conciliation Council. I'll be there in 30 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you. Then let us move on to the question. The head of the State Financial Control and Activities Subcommittee, Igor Fedorovich Molotok, is invited to the report. Please, in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u87	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, invited! In connection with the release of Yaremenka from office on September 3, 2020, and in accordance with the legislative requirements of the Budget Committee on September 18, 2020, a competition was announced for the appointment of a member of the Court of Auditors. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council did not appoint a member of the Court of Auditors on December 1, 2020, as a result of the competition announced in September 2020, the Committee on Budget Issues, on the basis of legislative requirements, announced a re-election on December 2 to serve as a member of the Court of Auditors. Four candidates submitted documents to the committee: Ganoszczak Victoria, Maziárczuk Victor, Plis Hennaday, and Hmelkov Andrew. The material on the candidates from December 8th is available on the Supreme Council and Committee sites. The committee conducted interviews with candidates and obtained the results of a special examination of candidates. The committee's decision with detailed information on the competition's actions has been given. In particular, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted a decision. First. Approve the conclusions of the committee on each of the four candidates for the office of a member of the Court of Auditors, according to which all candidates have undergone a special examination, provided for in the Prevention of Corruption Act, and meet the requirements for a member of the Court of Auditors, as defined in article 19 of the “About the Court of Auditors”, and approve the guidelines for consideration by the Supreme Council on the appointment of a member of the Court of Auditors. The other one. To correct the Committee’s stated decision, including the conclusions on candidates, without adding information on the candidates defined in article 205 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, since copies of the relevant documents are mainly posted on the Supreme Council and the Committee’s websites. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups. One faction just signed up, right? I don't know, it's written. Dear colleagues, let's re-write. I ask the factions and groups to sign up for the performance, for only one faction has been recorded. I don't mind, but... You perform, yes. Press the button again or the others won't make it. Please sign in. Okay. Dear colleagues, I have tried. The word is given to Vladimir Volodymyrovich Cabal, faction of the political party "Golos". After that, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin, we turn to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u89	I want to pass on the word to Nina Petrovna Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u90	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Nina Petrovna, please. First take your word, then yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u91	Thank you very much for the word, because in fact, my appeal to all of us to hear and perhaps to make certain conclusions right now. Dear colleagues, do we realize that war continues in the country? Have we forgotten here that the best of our people now with guns in their hands are protecting our country? Can we do so by having a large number of specialists in various fields? It's for them that we have to provide jobs in the future, and it's for them to lead our country forward and perform the functions of the specialists they're in charge of, and now it's just the patriots who are protecting our Ukraine. It seems to me that our Supreme Council must now exclusively adopt laws that help our Armed Forces win Ukraine, win Ukraine. And certainly not assigning a position here to destroy a certain number of institutions, even the foundation that was set up and that would lead us to some civil really action of our institutions. You all understand, but you can all honestly tell yourself that the House of Accounts is not the only institution that represents our interests. These are our eyes, these are our hands at a time when we don't have a lot of financial reports, and they're the ones that have to inform us what's going on with the budget. It is they who should do the audits even during the war of the important issues that interest us and our partners. One more.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u92	Please give me two more minutes. I asked for 4 dates, give me 2 more.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u93	What's going on now? It all points out that absolutely among the candidates that we're about to vote on are the people who need the authorities very much, most of all, in order to enter the House of Accounts, or perhaps in an illegal way, to lead it. Please tell me, you're honest with yourself, aren't you going to cover up, break up, spend money for the wrong purpose, rob a budget? We're honest! We are helping our country to stand up, win a common victory! How could you claim the right of our military to have these people who were pre-prepared because they announced the contest on Friday evening and on Tuesday it was over to these people. I don't have a claim on you personally, but how did you manage to collect documents in two days? You were ready for these positions. I see familiar faces who want to do everything they can to lead the House of Accounts right now. The institution was chosen, and the new law is that the chosen ones are in operation for six years. Please do not break what has been very difficult to do. As you now find some things very difficult to do, it was very difficult for the previous authorities to start building new institutions. So now it's very important, I'm addressing you, leave these positions to our soldiers, don't give them to the good people who will do everything according to your instructions. Stop! Have a conscience! On the front are the same financialists, the same audiences, the same people who can, lawyers, be members of the Court of Auditors. We were part - time workers and would work. All the military will hear you now. By the way, I was approached by two military men. We couldn't file the paperwork, they couldn't file it, because it's the help.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies, that's up to six minutes. Then we move on to making decisions. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Sign up for the speeches by the National Deputies. Please give the word to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u95	Please give Arthur Gerasimov the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u96	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u97	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians, really, honestly, you remember there was a question of the Court of Auditors at one of the previous meetings, the Hall did not back up, made a judgment, today it is back in our Hall. I would just like to say that I fully support what Nina Petrovna Jujanin just said, because the time of parliament, right now, we have to spend exclusively on what will help the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which will help our security and defence sector, which will help keep and develop, yes, even develop, our economy, but not on these things that today, I think, are going in certain games in government circles. That is why European Solidarity will not vote on this issue today and we urge everyone to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u98	Please, Stefan Olga Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u100	Vladimir Tsabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome us all of the national deputies of the Supreme Council, and since the Supreme Council is an organ that includes a monitoring function, not just a legislative one, that we will finally appoint a member of the Audit Chamber to a vacant post that has been released, if I am not mistaken, more than two years ago. I mean, thank God we got there. The other one. I very much hope that after this appointment, and perhaps after the appointment of three other vacant posts that we have, the role of the Court of Auditors will be strengthened. Now it's extremely important, given that the budget is deficit, the deficit is ours, is equal to the revenue part. The appropriate importance of monitoring the use of budgetary resources increases as half the budget will be financed by our donors. And as you know, no donor, given that the cost is inefficient, will ever give again. Moreover, they may not even give what we are counting on. So I call on any candidate who doesn't win to increase the control function of the Court of Auditors. As far as the candidates are concerned. In fact, everyone here is probably worth the attention, that is, all the candidates are good. There we, the members of the budget committee, were able to cross with one of these candidates constantly, who was constantly supporting. So I'm going to personally vote for this candidate, and I don't know if I can call him Victor Maziarczuk, because he's always on the committee to all the members of the committee. But I call on anyone who doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u102	And you're still going, aren't you? Please, Tzabal, finish it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u103	So once again, I call on a candidate to take this vacant position, who would not win, because all professional people have increased the role of the Court of Auditors in controlling government finances. It's very important to the budget committee, it's very important to the Supreme Council, it's very important to our military who are fighting, and to the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, faction of the political party Voice. I understand this is going to be the final performance. Galina Ivanovna Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u106	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I listened attentively to the others. It's quite obvious that we have to reinforce the role of our House of Auditors, and it has to be more of a "tooth" in the end. But during this period of activity during the work of the new authority, of your authority, it seems to me that the Court of Auditors was very loyal to power, and the conclusions seemed so loyal. But for the time being, there is definitely a new challenge, and it has certain negative effects on our country. And it will be proposed now in an illegal way to release the acting Head of the Court of Auditors. And among these candidates is one of the candidates at the Head of the Accounting Chamber, the one who will do everything according to the instructions will be under the fingernails of authority. I'm against it, let's leave the institution independent. Let it take some time, let all the passions around these candidates settle down. We'll allow the military who want to file documents to participate in the competition, and then we'll vote with you to select those worthy of the most worthy, not those who are now selected to perform certain functions of authority. Once again, please note, the time will come for us to do so. But all who are able to work in these positions should participate, not just those who have been chosen, and now they are waiting for this time to follow illegal guidelines. We'll come back to this with you. I wouldn't want our military. By the way, if you've noticed, there's information in the military's telegrams that Parliament's dealing not only with laws that help them win, but also with portfolios and corrupt feeds. So let's not let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to a rating vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, we move to a rating vote, in alphabetical order, in each candidate separately. I'm going to call it a name, a name, after my father's candidate, and you're going to decide about his support. Is that clear? Then whoever gets the most will vote as a candidate. That's why we're going to start the rating vote in alphabetical order. Viktoria Juryevna. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:27:23]] For-44 I'm on it. Next Maziarczuk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[14:27:46]] For 114 Pliss Hennaday Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[14:28:09]] For 240 Hmelkov Andry Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[14:28:30.]] For-57 Dear colleagues, therefore, according to the rating vote, the highest number of votes was won by Plisa Gennady Wolodymirovich. We're about to proceed to the final vote. I'm asking the national MPs to prepare for the vote. According to article 85, section 16, of the Constitution, article 20, of the bill "On the House of Accounts", article 208, with the symbol 2 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" put to the vote the proposal to appoint a member of the House of Auditors, Pliss Hennady Volodymirovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:29:28]] For 249 Decision taken. Factions, respectable colleagues. I ask the Main Committee, along with the Apparatus, to rule on the consequences of the decision we have made. Thank you. Welcome to the candidate already appointed. Thank you, Your Honor. Member of the Court of Auditors. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have the next bill, 8118. Dear colleagues, 8118, we agreed, three minutes from Fatherland, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, and we are voting in favour of this bill. Is that right? Please give Ivan Grigorovitch three minutes, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I want to remind you of the events of seven years ago. In this room exactly seven years ago, literally standing on the watch, with tears in his eyes, a very progressive European Reformer Act on Science and Technology was adopted. I'm going to highlight the end of 2015. By then, nearly two years ago, as was annexed by Russian aggressor Crimea, the vast areas of Lugansk and Donetsk region were occupied. Ukraine has lost enormous industrial, economic, resource and scientific potential. Such harsh challenges needed an adequate response. Ukraine was in great need of its own breakthrough innovation decisions in key areas of the economy, so the law clearly defined norms, directions, strategies and approaches. It's been seven years, almost zero on the way out. And that's why. One of the key tools for solving the identified problems was to be the National Research Fund. A standalone structure, with a separate line in the budget, with a clear position of function. At present, there is no line in the budget, no position, no proposal for strategic direction of research. Thus, each year, including for this reason, we were forced to enroll in this hall for another year what was approved, as the people say, before King Panka. Shame, but they had to fix an old strategy where there's no agro-industrial complex that's loaded down the main burden now, not only of food problems, but also of employment, of currency, of balance of payments and so on, so on. What's more, there was no defense complex. That's how we live, my friends. So the rhetorical question is, how long is this going to last? In this respect, we want to say, friends, the next. If someone with this strategy, when we allow ourselves to lose the sovereign right to make their own decisions, including through this fund, running here. And once again, I want to emphasize that we have sponsoring funds here, friends, then whoever pays orders music. We're going to do strategic research, not where we need to finance it, but where we're going to be told. If we agree to that in the hall, we disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u110	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats. We're moving on to a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology on the National Fund for Research of Ukraine (registration number 8118). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:34:00]] For 280 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Dear colleagues, next draft of Decree 8277. It's a draft of Dirdin M.E.'s appointment. Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:34:35]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed two minutes from the European Solidarity faction and we vote. Do I get it right? Who's speaking from "European Solidarity"? Irina Volodymyr is from European Solidarity. And then, colleagues, we vote, we support our colleague Dirdin. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, it is very important to mention that in the seven paragraphs required for Ukraine to exercise our candidate status as members of the EU, there is a paragraph for the Constitutional Court to maintain its independence and for the media. And it's very important for us to say the following. For two years now, the 4339 bill, introduced by the European Solidarity, has been blocked in this room, and we are trying to bring in safeguards to influence the judges of the Constitutional Court. I want to remind you that everyone in this room is arguing, so in the good sense of that word, who is the main beneficiary, let's say, the importance of the independence of the Anti-Corruption Court, which we created with the help of an expert board of independent experts, including international experts, and today this court is completely independent. So here, our bill 4339, it also proposes to create an appropriate public council so that the judges of the Constitutional Court, and this is the highest body of our court, are shaped by an independent choice, by professional choice, by professional choice, not by the way that this is happening today. And I'll remind you that you voted in violation of the legislation for the election of the Constitutional Court judge, Mrs. Sougiri, who was a member of the People's Servants team, despite objections, despite the conclusions of the negative Venice Commission, in order to increase dependence on the Constitutional Court's Banking Judges. And only after you've stretched out the people you need are you now putting to the vote the bills on the Constitutional Court that we need to bring to the European Union. We believe that the Constitutional Court should be as independent as possible. And we ask you to bring Bill 4339 in parallel to the session room that will help us form.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u112	All right, Petty Officer. Give us two more minutes, and we'll vote. Well, Maxim Evgenovich is already looking forward to defending Parliament's interests in the Constitutional Court. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen! Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. The state of war, the country has changed, the defenders are protecting the country on the front. We have a direct question for the entire room: why are we so politely trying to solve this issue? It's not us. It's a fraction of the majority. Where's the contest? Where's the test? Where is knowledge of constitutional law? And most importantly, is this going to be the representative of the Parliament that we need in the Constitutional Court or the representative of the Party? The party representatives have already been, they have changed the Constitution under one, the other, and still Janukovic where, ask. We'll tell you, in Russia. Our proposal is that the representative of Parliament should be of all political powers, of equal proportion, of constitutional law and, above all, of the Constitution of acts of the Supreme Council, of the President and of the Cabinet, of all political powers. As appointed by the judges of the Constitutional Court. They are assigned only to non-partisans, from 40 to 70 years of age. Why does the Supreme Council not change its approach? The Fatherland faction suggests discussing, agreeing with a representative or representative of Parliament, holding an open competition, a rating vote. And then give real authority to the real representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And let this court finally work, pick a head, and Ukraine was proud that there is an independent highest judicial institution that protects the rights of citizens as provided for in our own Constitution. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u114	Heroic glory! Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please prepare for the vote. I'm proposing to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Order on the appointment of Dirdin M.E. Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, registration number of draft Decree 8277. Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. Please vote. [[14:40:15]] For 270. Decision taken. Hello, Maxim Evgenovich. [[Applause]] Next. Dear colleagues, you'll laugh, we've got 8275 again, and we've declared a conflict of interest. Please, who's going to say? Traditionally, Rocsolana Andriyevna is the first, Helen Alexyevna is the second. Who else, please state. Roxanne Andriyevna, please, Podlas.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I hereby publicly announce that I have a conflict of interest in the issue of agenda No. 8275. Please report this to the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, please, Helen Alexiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u117	I declare a conflict of interest in the consideration of Decree 8275, and I ask you to record it in the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can't we vote now because we're in air trouble? Can we do so without discussion and then go down? You're demanding a discussion. Then I declare. Come on, two minutes -- the EC, and let's vote, dear fellows, wait. Dear colleagues, may we vote? Come on, 2 minutes, Hotcharyenko. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u119	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you are about to insert another security guard into the next commission by this decree. Say, well, how come you guys don't have any problems with that? Don't you feel any trouble with that? You don't feel the problem that the godfather of Medvedchuk continues to be the head of the committee here, not Nestor, not the chronicler. Maybe Medvedchuk, he's staying with us as Ukrainian national deputy, maybe let's take him head of the committee now, for example, from national security, what's wrong? How can you explain that people, including those not present in the country since February 24, probably knew something, and they continue to remain Ukrainian national deputies? You're okay, you're okay. Others wrote their own statements about the exit of the FMCT faction, looked first or failed to capture Putin Kyiv, saw that they had not captured it, then wrote their own statements – this is a direct constitutional basis for depriving them of their mandates. Why don't you? And now you're putting them, transferring them from the committee to the committee, holding the committee heads. You don't want to take the mandate now, you doubt the constitutionality of something, so take away at least the positions they still have. You don't do anything. Well, how can you explain that? Is it so important that they gave up completely and conveniently willing to vote for everything? Well, how is that, that's enough reason for you to keep this "Russian peace" in the Ukrainian Parliament after all that's happened, after every minute of silence that you've announced at the beginning, and we're standing there, and we're mentioning our heroes? Guys, come on! To banish "Russian peace" from the Ukrainian Parliament now!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose the adoption, as a whole, of a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 8275) People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:34]] For 235 Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, due to air anxiety, there is an interruption to the end of air anxiety. Please go into hiding according to the schematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. But while the people's deputies are still going to the hall, let's put out the questions we have. There's no president there. We just need to keep them on the phone while the colleagues get together. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, ten parliamentary inquiries have come in. Of these, 9 requests to the heads of other state authorities and local self-government authorities; 1 request to the managers of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership. Enquirement by Anton Yatzenk to the Head of State Customs to provide information on the possible violation of customs rules established by the Ukrainian Customs Code, a Ukrainian citizen, a local self-governance official, the city head of the Umansk City Council, Pletný Irina Grigorovna. Anton Yatzenk, acting as director of the municipal institution, "Czerka District Centre for Medical and Social Expertise of the Cerkas District Council" for the provision of copies of documents on the basis of which the Ukrainian citizen Pletnów Nazar Juriovich was recognized as a disabled person. To the Ummansk City Head about providing information on the service and receiving by the city’s head of the Ummansk City Council of Pletný Irina Grigorový Humanitarian Aid, a means of transportation to support local residents, and an RPO from the town of the brothers of Shprotava. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information and copies of documents on the financial and economic activities of the Umman City Council – accounting and use of fuel-oil materials for the period from 1 October 22nd to 1 December 22nd. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for a full audio recording session and a transcript of a session of the Umman City Council of the Umman district of Cherkas District, which took place on December 7, 2022, in a session hall of the Umman City Council. Dmitri Mikishi to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for the provision of statistical information on the local elections held in 2015 and 2020. Andrew Boblach to the Chief Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the need to establish voluntary formation of territorial communities No. 5 in the Poltava region. Mr. Mikhail Bondar and Mr. Mikaly Veličkovich to the Head of the State Information and Information Services, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, on the introduction of cryptophonograms, including the "Temnome", signed by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Danilov Aleksija Mejcheslavovich, dated April 3, 22. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head on the provision of information and copies of documents relating to the assignment of state social assistance to persons who do not have the right to retire and persons with disabilities to the Office of Labour and Social Protection of the Population of the Umman City Council. We also have two announcements about the creation of interfractional MPs. Thus, according to article 60, prime. 1 I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For anti-corruption tax reform". The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine: Zablockian Marian Bogdanović and Nataluh Dmitr Andriyovich. Let's welcome a colleague. There was also an interfractional MP association called Free Ickeria. The head of the network was Alexander Alexandrovich. Welcome, Alexander Alexanderovich. You have the strength in this difficult work of freeing the enslaved peoples of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to ask the people's deputies, let's take our seats. Because we had air anxiety so we could look at the results of the signal vote, what are the prospects for solving these issues?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u124	David Georgiyovich Arahami, please come to the fore. David Georgievich, please come to the fore.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to take your seats so that I can see with the presidency how many national deputies are in the hall, and we'll make a signal vote. Okay? Because the break ended with us. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Dear friends. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I propose to hold a signal vote before we begin our consideration of the issues because we have had a break and we need to understand the number of people in the Hall. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Members of the People's Parliament are requested to vote in a signal vote. [[16:07:25]] For 236 236 in, 2 in, 3 in. Well, everything as usual. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. 8217 is a draft law amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Chaplainship. We agreed that this issue would be discussed. So I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, registration number 8217. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:08:18]] For 260 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:08:42]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against it. Do I get it right? Okay. Then let's report to the Bakunec People's Deputy, please, as the author of the bill. Paul Andryovich. I got it. Then give the Secretary of the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence to Kostenko Roman Vasilovich. I won't. Then two in favour, two in favor, of course, of honorary colleagues, please sign up. Please give the floor to National Deputy Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I have a request to put into order the important drafts of the day, the authors of which are in the hall, and they are in favour of supporting their bills, so that we can spend time, in fact, on important bills. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u127	Thank you. Please give the word to Jurčin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u128	It is a great privilege for me to protect the name of my colleague Roman Costenko, who is now on the forerunner of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, his bill. And he asked for the support of this bill to be extremely important, and that's why we're asking for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u129	Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u131	Please, Pavelka Rostislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor. This bill cannot be called irrelevant because it is about the moral and psychological and spiritual support of our fighters. So thanks to my colleagues for introducing this project, the faction will support it. But I also point out that there are other bills that are aimed at supporting the chaplains and delaying the requirements, because there is actually a need to work out of the wheels and to improve working conditions and to provide them. And I'd ask the next conciliator to put them in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u133	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Head. I think the question is perfectly clear. We need to vote on the bill as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then there is a proposal on the basis and in general, first on the basis and then on the whole. Is there any objection? Then I propose to adopt the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Service of Military Chaplainship (registration No. 8217). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:12:04]] For 267 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft law amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Military Chaplain Service Act (registration No. 8217) which takes into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:12:37]] For 272 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain in your seats, leaders of factions and groups for one minute to approach the Presidium, because there is an offer to move now to Euro-Integration Laws and make decisions. I ask the leaders of factions and groups to approach the presidency for one minute so that we can agree on this decision and start working. Dear colleagues, thank you. Our short break ended. Please take your seats. Compromise, as usual, found. Thank you, colleagues. We are now entering Euro-Integration Bills. We have an agreement among the leaders of factions and groups and Parliament's leadership. We go to Bill 7662 – this is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the selection of candidates for the post of Constitutional Court judge on competitive grounds. We agreed: all the factions virtually cancel their amendments; 10 minutes – Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko; then 3 minutes – Peter Poroshenko, 2 minutes – Irina Herashchenko; we vote 6 amendments and then we vote in favour of the law as a whole. I'm asking you to be in the hall, keep the maximum concentration of attention. Ready, colleagues? I then announce a review of question 7662: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the selection of candidates for the post of Constitutional Court judge on competitive grounds. I'm giving Julia Volodymyr's Timoshenko 10 minutes, please give it to me instead of your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, 10 minutes, you can go for a cup of coffee. Maybe we'll vote while you're gone. Dear friends, I want to talk about this bill because this bill is not about the Constitutional Court. This is a bill on Ukraine's sovereignty: either we keep Ukraine's sovereignty and it is of absolute value to us, or this sovereignty of Ukraine will be practically cleansed. In fact, it is about how proposals for constitutional judges are formed. There were different options in this bill, as it is proposed to appoint judges to the Constitutional Court. Of course, the main intrigue is that the judges of the Constitutional Court in this law, from the first to the last version, were practically appointed to participate in international structures and international legal and physical persons. You know, someone might say, well, what's wrong with that? May our constitutional judges be appointed abroad. Because, well, here we have corruption, here we have some unknown people walking, and there's an international community that will appoint a class of constitutional judges. But, dear friends, I ask you to consider three important positions here. First, that the Constitutional Court is the last institution to protect Ukraine's national interests and human rights. Secondly, every country in the world, including the European Union, has its own interests, and generally, the interests of a particular country and the interests of the whole of the association may differ on many issues with the national interests of Ukraine. And if we're going to outsource the Constitutional Court, in fact, the Constitutional Court will not be under the control of the Ukrainian State. That's the problem. And the last. They say they'll do better. If someone says they're going to do better, it means that they so indirectly confirm that the Ukrainian state has not happened, that it can't manage itself, that it can't make decisions in its own interests, and someone is replacing us in this important process. We can't let that happen. And that's why I'm addressing all the deputies right now, it's not just a question of the Constitutional Court, it's a question of Ukraine's sovereignty. And if we want to preserve it, multiply it, manage our resources, national wealth, live our own lives for the sake of our Ukrainian nation, we can't give to anyone the formation of any authority in Ukraine, and, above all, the Constitutional Court. And that's why this bill is completely unconstitutional, and it's against the national interests of Ukraine, and it's a recognition of our inability to govern our own state. And one more thing. I have great respect and appreciation for all our international partners. They are today our guarantee, including our victory in this war. They are doing a great deal of what is necessary today for Ukraine, but at the same time no one has the right to exchange anything for the sovereignty of Ukraine. And so I would like to ask you to take this very seriously because this is the life of the country for many years to come. And you know that I watch all the time in politics? When European countries joined the European Union, each one of them robbed their fists of blood, defending their right to maintain as much sovereignty as possible when entering the European Union. They fought for anyone, every letter, every figure, because it's a question of discussion, and no one has the right to give us directives from above just because we're in a difficult state. Yes, we are in a dire state because we are paying for the freedom and peace of all Europeans with the blood, the life of our Ukrainians. We're paying and paying doubles is wrong. And by the sovereignty of part, and at the same time by blood, by the life of the Ukrainians. We owe our debt. And that's why I want to call on you today to have a few more drafts of the same mess when we're being taken away, covering it up with reforms. But I want to believe very much that there are people in this room who read the bill, who think not about how to find compromises and how to agree, but how to preserve what no one will ever return to us. If we're in pieces like salami, we're going to cut our sovereignty, then we're going to be hostages of this situation, and we're going to be vassals instead of being hosts in our own home. And so I ask you to take a look at this bill carefully. I wish we hadn't brought such a thing into the hall at all. But it's your choice, you have a majority today, you can decide anything, but the responsibility for how the country lives after the war depends on each one of you. I was very pleased today that when we gathered under the Media Law and all worked together on it, we found a reasonable, rational path where we cleaned up everything that was illogical and everything that was unnecessary in the country and left the minimum that guaranteed us freedom of speech. And this example, as we've been working on the Media Act today, can simply become a model of how we can negotiate and how we can together not just win, but preserve both sovereignty and independence, and Ukraine's ability to govern our lives. So our team will certainly not vote in favour of this bill, nor for the next one that is connected. And I very much ask you, as provided for in the Constitution, give the right to appoint a third of the Constitutional Court to the President without being advised from space to whom to appoint. Allow the judges to meet to appoint those whom they consider to be judges. And let us be responsible for these candidatures so that the Constitutional Court is a constitutional judicial body. And the third is that a third is appointed by Parliament. What do you want from above, from where we can't see, is for you to put up candidates to vote for Parliament? Then why Parliament? Let them direct their appointment. And that's why this bill is destroying the Constitution. And we cannot show that Ukraine is giving its capabilities to the right and to the left. Save Ukraine and Sovereignty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, 3 minutes. On the contrary, Irina Volodymyrna, two minutes, six lines, then Peter Alexiovich. But I'm going to ask the committee head to take your place, because there are going to be adjustments, and you have to respond. Denis Vejaslavovich, take your place. Irina Volodymyrically, please, two minutes -- six amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for a European democratic country, an independent Constitutional Court is the foundation of an independent judiciary. Indeed, by no means (the boys will leave, please), by no means, among the lists of obligations that Ukraine has as a candidate country is the Constitutional Court Act. Our faction insisted on the adoption of Bill 4339 on the creation of an independent council of experts to ensure that the public voice and our international partners are heard in this council of virtue. Unfortunately, this bill is blocked. And it is very important that we now put to the vote amendments 145, 202, 216, 217, 227 and 238, which deal with the creation of an advisory group of experts to include representatives of necessarily civil society. You deliberately did not put our bill in order to get two judges of the Constitutional Court to carry out illegally, including, unfortunately, a member of the mono-majority team, Mrs. Sougir. And now this fraud looks like when we have big omens assigned to nine years by five judges of the Constitutional Court who are totally dependent on power, on power, on the President, and this will create a dependent Constitutional Court. This is unacceptable. That's why we demand not to destroy the independence of the Constitutional Court, to hear the conclusions of the Venice Commission, our European partners, and to form an advisory board to introduce not six experts, as stipulated in the bill, but eight, and it is precisely two experts to delegate from the public. Thus we formed our time as an anticorruption court, which today has.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u139	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee, Denis Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u140	Is it all right or one at a time?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u141	By all amendments, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u142	Colleagues, I'll tell you very soon. It is strange to hear a representative of one faction in parliament say that we give sovereignty to internationals. A representative of another faction says that we don't give enough to internationals. Do you know why? Because we kept our balance right. It is also possible for international experts to block unkind candidates and not limit the sovereignty of Ukraine. That's the main thing. This is the balance in this bill. And so these changes that you've pointed out, the position of the committee is to reject, clearly and unequivocally. And this is entirely in line with the conclusion of the Venice Commission when the very conclusion of the Venice Commission did not appeal to some representatives just because they had decided the right position and said that the public community was taking part in the process through monitoring and award.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, thank you. I'll bet. All right, Irina Volodymyrna? 145th Amendment by Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, she was rejected by the committee. The author insists that it be counted. I'll bet 145 you an adjustment. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:35:45.]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 202 Amendment of National Deputy Heratchenko. The committee turned it down. The author insists on counting. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[16:36:11]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next, 216 amendments to the national deputy Heratchenko. The same situation: The committee rejected, the author insists on counting. I'm betting on 216 adjustments. People’s Deputies Please Vote [[16:36:39]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 217 Amendment of People’s Deputy Heratchenko The same situation: The committee rejected, the author demanded to be taken into account. I'm putting Amendment 217 on the line. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:37:06]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 227 Amendment of People’s Deputy Heratchenko It is also rejected by the committee. The author needs to be taken into account. I'll bet you this offer on it. Please vote. [[16:37:33]] For-56 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of 238 by Heratchenko. It's not counted. The author is asking to be counted. I'll bet you 238 adjustments. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:38:03]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Corrections are rejected. Next, 3 minutes -- Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, 1 minute Makarov, and we vote. No, one. You're here alone? One. And this starts with, you know, some kind of trade. Peter Alexiyovich, then Oleg Anatolyevich, then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, here today we are solving the issue of our membership in the European Union and because the quality of the drafts should be absolutely flawless, coordinated, because we need to talk not only about sovereignty but about our future membership where 90 percent of Ukrainians want to go. In the 20th year, two years ago, I, together with my colleagues, my brothers and sisters, registered a bill on the principles of the formation of the Constitutional Court. He's got the support of public organizations, he's got the support of our partners. And the key is that it was based on the positive experience of forming an anti-corruption court. I am proud that the anti-corruption court was fully formed with the decision of the WCC, with the decision of the High Council of Justice, with the holding of competitions for the Council. And today, after its more than three years of operation, it is a court that gives rise to the greatest trust with the Supreme Court. We've proposed the same mechanism, instead we're risking getting a campaign, a campaign of competitions, a campaign of experts and an advisory vote that is not coming to the European Court today. That's too bad. And I stress that we should go back to our bill, even though we should consider it an alternative, allowing the people’s deputies themselves to choose the best form rather than just a nameless office. And I'm sure that this would certainly lead to the adoption of a bill that would ensure the movement to Europe. For this bill, the faction of "European Solidarity" will not vote as a proponent. And if, for God's sake, we don't get to vote, I'm asking the chairman to draft our bill, and I'm convinced it's going to be a victory for Ukraine, a victory in our race to candidate status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, 1 minute is the national MP of Makarov. And then there will be one more question to the reporter, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u146	For all who doubt, I would like to remind everyone that the Supreme Council, according to the Constitution, is holding a meeting of judges and the President of Ukraine. No international experts. International experts who are delegated to the Advisory Board make a preliminary selection of such candidates. So there's no betrayal, there's no harm in that. The last edition is a balanced edition, a balanced version of the selection of candidates for the Constitutional Court. I therefore call for this bill to be supported so that it can finally be selected on competitive grounds. Taking advantage of the 15 seconds that I have left, I want to say that the strategic mistake that we made today was the adoption of the law on the abolition of the Kyiv District Administrative Court. That's a strategic mistake, you'll see in three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion. I'm asking the National MPs to take their seats. Bye. Another question from Razumkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u148	Thank you. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, please tell me we've all seen G7's statements today. We have this bill marked as Euro-Integration. We have seen that our international partners do not support him. Isn't it going to turn out that we are now voting on a bill that they don't count as. to Euro-Integration, and then we're going to look at something again, something to take in? Nevertheless, part of our powers as the Supreme Council, as sovereignty, as the Constitutional Court, we will give up, instead of getting nothing back. I think it looks pretty weird. Either we accept it, we're given a branch as an accomplished entry point into the European Union, or we don't understand why we're looking at it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u149	Denis Vejacheslavovich, brief answer. And let's get to the vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u150	Let me put it very briefly: no, it won't work. Because the first paragraph of the recommendations of the European Commission was to adopt a bill in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. We did so, and we confirmed it, and we confirmed it, including even by the Chief Legal Authority. So no, that's not gonna work. We are adopting a law that we will be able to be proud of and to be good to the best representatives of the Constitutional Court at last, really, on competitive transparent principles, involving both representatives of an international organization and representatives of society. And this is the best version of a balanced bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear friends, I'm making an offer. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the procedure for the selection of candidates for the seat of the Constitutional Court on competitive grounds (registration number 7662). People's deputies, please vote. [[16:45:26]] For 245 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Please, from the procedure, Joanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, just in the face of our decision by the Head of the Supreme Council, simply in violation of our decision, did not give the floor to the representative of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union so that I could present the opinion of the committee to this bill. Unfortunately, our conclusion was that the recommendations of the Venice Commission to this bill were not fully taken into account. I want to hope that this doesn't have a negative impact on the assessment of how we did this task, one of the seven conditions that we have to fulfil in order to move not just to the membership talks, but to hold the application. And I ask you, Mr. Head, to stop violating the Supreme Council's decision on the basis of a decree we approved in the summer of July.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u153	Madam Head of the Committee, I give you a brief and clear answer. First. It's documented. I just got word from the camera that there's no committee decision. This time. None. Once again, there's no machine. The other one. As for what we're talking about. I've just specifically assembled all the leaders of factions and groups, and we've been very excited to talk about how we're going to vote on Euro-integration laws. And we follow these arrangements. That's a dot. Next 7663. Draft Act amending article 129 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges to clarify the terms of the assembly of judges of Ukraine. We have an agreement with our colleagues. Please confirm that we are voting immediately without discussion. From the procedure, Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u154	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, you've gathered, you've gathered in the Presidium of factions and groups. The factions and groups have kept their promises completely. But with regard to the Committee on European Integration, this is the rule and this is the Supreme Council Rules, and this is what we have accepted with you in this room. Because by every Euro-integration law, especially if the committee's conclusion was not handed down to the deputies, and it is, the committee has made a decision, they speak out of the rostrum and argue this conclusion. And, well, frankly, it's not clear, because it's not a faction issue, it's a committee issue. And the committee was obliged to speak, that is, here, well, I think it's a pure violation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u155	Arthur Volodymyrovich, thank you. Thank you. I would be surprised if you could read the ruling that we have adopted, but there is no binding norm on the committee’s presentation. Honorary colleagues, 7663: draft Act amending article 129 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on clarifying the terms of the meeting of judges of Ukraine. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 129 of the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges on clarifying the terms of the assembly of judges of Ukraine (registration number 7663). I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[16:49:13]] For 294 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we're going into 2693-d: the Media Act. Do I get it right? And, dear fellows, if you'll excuse me, please remain seated, you'll need two more minutes to talk about this bill, please remain seated. Leaders of factions and groups, please approach us to get through this bill as effectively as possible. Please. Keep your distance, friends, keep your distance. Dear colleagues, you can see that the holiday of Andria gives a great boost to our further cooperation. We made a deal. Dear colleagues, look, we are now voting on a bill without discussion. Now, one second, there'll be only one amendment. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the consideration, please take your seats, we're moving on to Bill 8241. This is a draft of the Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine on the Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Improvement of Electronic Documentary Procedures in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on specific matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under conditions of martial law. We agreed, one amendment is now to be made by the people's MP, we vote on it and then we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Do you have a deal? Please, I give the floor to the People's Deputy after his amendment. Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, number 14, she's been rejected by the committee. This amendment refers to giving the Head of the Supreme Council the authority to sign without delay the bills adopted in the walls of the Supreme Council without the possibility of so-called blocking orders. Today the Conciliation Council has reached agreement that it will be supported by all factions and then this bill will be voted on. I think that's going to be able to confirm all the faction and group leaders. So I ask you to put number 14 on the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting amendment number 14. She was rejected by the committee, and the people’s deputy, Razumkov, is proposing to support her. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:00:15]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of documentation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on specific matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the conditions of military status (registration No. 8241). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[17:01:07]] For 314 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Let's move on. Next bill 2693-d: draft Media Act. I invite Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, this is the final bill on our demands, but this is just the beginning. Mikito Ruslanovich, you forgot your folder, go back to your folder. Dear colleagues, now Mikita Ruslanovich will say what we agreed on, we will vote on it. After that, we agreed, we will give the word, yes, Razumkov – 2 minutes, Julia Volodymyrna will take the word and will take the "European Solidarity". And after that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Mikita Ruslanovich first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u158	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the play? Where's the second reading? [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't mind. Colleagues, I beg your attention, a very important question, colleagues. All the factions and groups, all without exception, expressed a desire to settle certain issues regarding the activities of the Council Channel, both during and after the war. That's why we have to accept with you now partial amendment number 2183 of the authorship of national deputies Condratuk and Timoshenko, and other colleagues. I'm going to read it under the transcript, which is not out of voice, it's just what's left of it. So I'm reading. Paragraph 5 of paragraph 1
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u159	Please don't rule out, let Mikita Ruslanovich finish. Start editing first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Head. Paragraph 5 of paragraph 1 of section X, paragraph 3171, "End and transitional positions" of the project reads as follows: "Parliamentary Television Council or its successor, subject to the availability of language licenses, provides a full-time broadcast of open plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, daily broadcasts of plenary meetings and "hours of questions to the Government" and weekly programmes with equal participation of representatives of MPs, MPs and non-fractional national deputies of Ukraine. In the event of the imposition of restrictions on the direct broadcasting of the open plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the interests of national security and/or security arrangements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the implementation of decisions and regulations on the implementation of the single information policy in the context of the state of the war, the opening of plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the daily plenary meetings of the plenary meetings and the holding of the "hours of questions of the Government" and the weekly programmes for equal participation of representatives of MPs, MPs and non-factional national deputies of Ukraine shall be broadcast to the state-run company Parliamentary Television "Rada" on the date of the relevant plenary session or in the form of an established programme. And if that's not possible, in the first week of the broadcast, the "Parliamentary Television Council" program comes up after the day of the plenary meeting or the creation of the program. Colleagues, we're asking you to support this 2183 in this partial edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We will proceed to the vote for this amendment. Amendment 2183 in an editorial that has just been resounded by Mikita Ruslanovich, who was. So, dear colleagues, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[17:05:59]] For 281 Decision taken. Mikita Ruslanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u162	Colleagues, please, the next question is also important. At the initiative of a certain part of the MP factions, not all of them, I would point out, not all of them, but I'm not going to call my colleagues right now, because there was a Conciliation Council, they came to a joint decision. So, on the initiative of some MP factions and groups, it was decided to remove from the End Regulations the law of amendment to the Electoral Code. I'm going to say right now that I'm going to invite everyone to join our committee, we're going to register this as a separate amendment to the Electoral Code, but now we've agreed that we're going to delete it. To do this, colleagues, we need to take partially into account the 1912 amendment of the authorship of the People's Democratic People's Deputies as part of the deletion from section X of the Final and Transitional Positions of sub-paragraphs 1-13 and 15-18 of paragraph 31.10. I'd like your support, colleagues. I'm saying, part of 1912, and then the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Consider partial amendment 1912 of the Princely in the deletion part of section X of the Final and Transitional Positions sub-paragraphs 1-13 and 15-18 of paragraph 31.10. Is that clear? People's deputies, please vote. [[17:07:55]] For 287 Decision taken. Please announce Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, next. We need to vote on a package of amendments to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. I announce a list of these amendments: 1914, 1919, 1924, 1925, 1942, 1950, 1956, 1967, 1971, 1980, 1983, 1989, 1995, 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029. Colleagues, we ask you, within the framework of the agreement of the Conciliation Council, and all factions and groups to consider these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, we vote separately. I can't stack up. Amendment of 1914 by Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko She was rejected by the committee, so please support. 1914 amendment. [[17:09:20]] For 289 Decision taken. Mikita Ruslanovich, give me the list. Dear colleagues, the following amendment of 1914 by Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. She was rejected by the committee but was asked to support her. Vote please, Your Honor. 1919 amendment, yes. Please vote. [[17:10:15]] For 285 Decision taken. The next amendment to 1924 by Timoshenko, also rejected by the committee, is considered. Dear colleagues, 1924, please vote. [[17:10:45]] For 294 Decision taken. The next amendment, 1925. A similar situation, please vote. [[17:11:09]] For 292 Decision taken. The next amendment, 1942. It was rejected, too. Please vote. [[17:11:30.]] For 291 Decision taken. Next, 1950. A similar situation, please vote. [[17:11:52]] For 284 Decision taken. Next amendment, 1956. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:12:16]] For 283 Decision taken. Next amendment, 1967. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:12:37]] For 284 Decision taken. The next amendment, 1971. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:13:01]] For 284 Decision taken. Next amendment, 1980. It's rejected. Please vote. [[17:13:23]] For 280 Decision taken. Next amendment, 1983. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:13:45]] For 285 Decision taken. Next amendment, 1989. People's deputies, please vote. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna. [[17:14:09]] For 284 Decision taken. Next amendment to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko 1995 People's deputies, please vote. [[17:14:32]] For 279 Decision taken. Next amendment, 2026 by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please vote. [[17:14:55]] For 278 Decision taken. Next amendment 2027 by Timoshenko. Please vote. [[17:15:17]] For 280 Decision taken. Next amendment 2028 by Timoshenko. Please vote. [[17:15:38]] For 284 Decision taken. And the final amendment of Julius Volodymyrni Timoshenko 2029. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:16:01]] For 287 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mikita Ruslanovich, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, further in order to complete this block, we need to take into account in part the 1997 amendment by Helen Kostawni Kondratuk and our colleague from the Committee of Mr. Alexander Abdullin in the section of article 57 of the Electoral Code a new part of nineteen. It cancels out, it cancels out, we had three points, up to one. So sub-paragraph 14, paragraph 3110, of section X, "The End and Transitional Positions" of the project is worded as follows: “Subparagraph 14 of article 57 “in” should be added to part of the nineteen content: “Subjects in the media sphere are not responsible for the content of the pre-election campaign, which was placed in accordance with the contract with the contracting party, except in the cases provided for in part three of this article.” There's a little article like this, it's simple. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the 1997 amendment in the editorial that Mikita Ruslanovich gave us. And I ask the national deputies to vote. [[17:17:28]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've passed this block, haven't we? Next thing we know, we agreed, two minutes, and then Julia Volodymyrna, four minutes. Yeah? And then we're going to go to the block for six minutes, "European solidarity," some of the amendments we're voting and then we're voting on the Law as a whole. Please, Razumkov, then Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u168	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, well, it's really important to adopt a bill that will regulate media activity, it's a big job. Fortunately, though, I would like to thank all my colleagues, and we cleaned up what we did. Which is exactly what it shouldn't have been, this is a matter of electoral legislation that would actually usurp the ability to influence the media and reduce freedom of speech, narrow the freedom of speech. Regrettably, this is a big issue today in Ukrainian society, which involves not only war but today the risks to Ukrainian achievement, such as the real freedom of speech on both our channels and today’s media. I really want to believe that we can save this, that we can keep moving and build a democratic state. What's important is that today we supported those rights that were given by colleagues on the Council channel that should remain parliamentary. It shouldn't be a channel that buys someone's content, and then journalists, and law enforcement, and anti-corruption authorities talk about what's going on, well, actually a corrupt component, it's very bad, it doesn't add to us or to our Euro-integration aspirations and views. This bill leaves questions that are debated. I am confident that colleagues will make their own decisions by voting or not supporting this bill. But what's important is that we can agree on and accept the right things, the main thing is that after the adoption of this law, everyone's position remains honest, constructive and everyone acts within the limits of the law, not within their political "hotels." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko - 4 minutes. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u170	Dear friends, a brief phrase literally in the Constitutional Court. You know how a little bit warms me up? As the country's national leader, the patriot says that we have few international experts involved and that more needs to be involved so that Ukraine doesn't matter at all here. You know, we need to look at all of this. And when it's said that these are prerequisites for joining the European Union, I want to ask you all very much: find one European country where the Constitutional Court is formed from the outside. It doesn't exist and it never did. And that's why it's not a condition for joining the European Union. That's the first one. And the second is a beautiful media bill. I want to tell you that this was just an example, this was a model of how our Supreme Council of Ukraine can work when we hear each other. What have we done here? We have opened the way for the broadcast of the Supreme Council in the record. We took out the election block. We've removed the non-derogable licenses of the media. We are now adopting a law that is fully in line with European directives. And I want to say absolutely unacceptable words for opposition, absolutely unacceptable. I want to thank David of Arahama for joining us. And his will, it worked. And I want to make one confession that's not even possible for the opposition. I mean, I'm a fan of Mikita Poturayev. It's a person who, well, works well, highly professionally, beautifully. And, you know, really, we're all in a great mood today, because no one was choking anyone, but we were making decisions. Mikita, I'm really a fan! And I want to say thank you to Olenka, our Condratuk, for being a partner and for making it impossible for this law to get closer to unanimity adoption. I want to welcome the hall with this law adopted, and I believe that we will continue to find such understandings. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to the Supreme Council, which is able to unite!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u171	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. The feast is coming. Dear colleagues, to somehow continue the paints of this whole thing, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, then, I take it, Sumar, Princely and Klimpush. Yeah, I get it right? Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, we really need to adopt a media code that takes into account the European Commission's directives on audiovisual services. And this law is important for the implementation of the seven elements of the preconditions for the candidate country to the EU. At the same time, there are rules in this bill that have been severely combated by "European Solidarity" as the political power of the state, which has begun the process of drafting legislation that brings Ukraine closer to the EU and NATO. I'm proud of the fact that our team has handled Ukrainian media. We were the team that turned down the propagandist UT-1. As President's Spokesman and First Vice Secretary, I've never pressed the media in my life, made black lists, formed censorships, and once walked off the Inter channel through black lists and censorship. And it's an absolute disgrace that 20 years from now, the Medvedchuk dungeons are going back to being legalized in this session hall, to the Council Act. Because you've created this problem, you've voted that more than 500 million dollars are allocated from Parliament's budget every year to the Council channel, which today turned into the worst propaganda TV, to Russia Today, only in the Ukrainian version, where the President's Office, secondly, the Vice President's Office, thirdly, the cats and dogs of the President's Office. And there is absolutely no Parliament, the legislature. Your voters and ours ask us every day: Where is the parliament? You know, the shame is that we're discussing European laws, and the value of freedom of speech is not valuable to you. Because none of you, starting with the old faces that stood before us, ending with the new faces that stood before us, have ever said anything about the value of freedom of speech, the shame, the exclusion of three patriotic Ukrainian TV channels that are fighting for Ukraine today just as hard as soldiers on the front. What's more, part of the espresso, direct and fifth teams are at war, and the teams are dead and injured, and you've shut these channels off from digital broadcasting. You don't let them go to the marathon and you say you're in favour of Euro-integration and NATO. Believe me, this will block our way to the EU, and it is therefore very important that the person who pressed this red glove turn on the TV channels. We know it's on Bank. For an independent State of Europe, an independent Nacrad is very important. Independence is not only about high wages, independent of the Nazrad – the one who notices mistakes, what the marathon has turned into today, what has turned into today's "The Council" channel, where there is no pluralism, where there is no freedom of speech, where one can degrade opposition and lie about certain things, completely forgetting the institutionality of Parliament. And the Nakrad doesn't notice that. Sorry, Nacrad doesn't notice that on the so-called "Freedom" and "Home" channels, we have so-called "good Russians," and we have representatives of the banned SALW and Shari Party, and that's not noticed by Nacrad. Is this an independent body? That's what we need to think about with you. That's why our team stands for the next one. First. We're going to have to go back to the "Race" channel, there's nothing there but the work of Parliament. In all the democratic countries of the world, the channels that provide for the work of parliament explain it, work as a parliamentary newsletter, talk about the work of committees, the work of factions, allowing the platform to express its position on one or the other laws. What did you turn this channel into in ten months? There's no parliament, there's no faction, and your voters are asking, what, Parliament's gone and what, you're really working? And you voted for that. And if you'll excuse me, this needs to be corrected, the "Council" channel should only work as a parliamentary newsletter. I want today's vote to work in the same way that we now have a daily newsletter presenting pluralism of thought in this room, the position of all parliamentary factions, our position on the bill, not, if you will, the most disgraceful of all, the absolute creativity that is happening today on this infernal channel that has turned into UT-1. I am sorry that the pressure is being exerted today by the Bank’s and the Ministry of Censorship, which is also censoring the marathon today. And you know, the minister of censorship actually has good censorship experience, he's already apologized twice to the Ukrainians for censorship in 2004, for censorship in 2014. It's important that you don't apologize at 24, because that's what this is all about. The second block is important to this bill. It's really a law on the need to take positions on an independent Nakrad. Third. It's very important that we remove the media. Four. It is important to turn on the forbidden channels. It will be our responsibility with you for democracy, for our commitment to freedom of speech. Well, last but not least, I would like to say that the committee worked very actively on this bill, thanking the members of our team on the committee: Mikola Kneżickkim, Sofia Fedini, Volodymyr Vátrović, all colleagues who accepted the amendments to the law, taking into account our amendments to the language legislation. Together, we did not allow this law to violate the quota principle of the presence of the Ukrainian language. It would be a betrayal of the Ukrainian language, the betrayal of our army, and the betrayal of Ukraine. It's very good that these.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u173	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Please, National Deputy Sumar. It's too much. How much? Six minutes or less? How much, Victoria? Less. In six minutes, please. Then Princely, then Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u174	Mr. Head, just in case, I have more than 50 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u175	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u176	Uncounted. Dear colleagues, what are we doing with you today? On the one hand, we're told that we're here fighting for a Euro-Integration Law. In fact, we're clearing this Euro-Integration Law now from a lot of "hotels" of power that are actually Euro-Integrating. This isn't about European integration at all. Because this law was intended to implement the Ukrainian legislation of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. What did we vote with you now? Electoral legislation. Of course, election regulations should be in the Electoral Code. But it was here until the last day, even though we had been saying for months that this should not be the case. And we were told: yes, yes, yes, we will. What were we doing here? We've been writing out the last day, so think about it. Actually, we've been talking on this channel for months. A bunch of spears have already been broken. Because it's not really a reform, it's an anti-reform, it's a back-to-back to the legislation of Ukraine's state television channel. We've done everything we can since we were 14. And now we're coming to a completely non-European practice and we're adding to the FreeDom channel, and we're adding a social language that spends more than 2 billion together on a general marathon, and we're still taking the "Council" channel from the parliamentary channel and we're creating a national channel from it that Parliament doesn't show at all. It doesn't show at all! He's showing the President's Office, whatever the hell it is, it's not a parliamentary session. I think it's kind of crazy for Parliament to vote for that, don't you? Well, it's so self-circumcised to just do it in public, no more and no less. Next. What else is there from "hotels," what's left here? It's online regulation. Actually, when we talk about European principles, European principles are about freedom of speech, right? But we want to regulate everything. We don't actually regulate the Internet. But you don't see any Russian websites. Country.ua blocked. The penalty instruments allow all of this to be done. But no, we've decided that we're going to regulate the Internet, and we're going to regulate it hard enough, colleagues. So just so you know, if any of you have any friendly websites, now that you don't have to close them down, they're going to have to register as media. But this does not mean that they will not be pressured because the Nakrad will be able to come to each site with a check, to ask for accounting documents in particular. And the sites that are called anonymous or unregistered can be simply blocked. Do you think that's what the Europeans are asking us to do? No, it's not. It's a completely internal requirement. Because, sorry, but with the start of the war, we've cleared the information space of Ukraine on television and radio, there's one big marathon there. In that marathon, you know, I'm not sorry that there are no representatives of Parliament, there's no shit with us all, there's practically no soldiers there, there's no truth there, you know. There are only propagandists heroes who are now all in the hundreds of prominent Ukrainians because of this single marathon. Shit's sitting here screaming. Instead of making it. These are yours. I quoted you. So for the lack of television, it turns out, the space, this marathon fell into a rating twice or more, people just don't watch it anymore. The only information space left is the Internet. What should I do with the Internet? Adjust the Internet. And that's why this law aims to clean up more online space. It's a bad story and, believe me, stuffing it into a Euro-integration, well, it's just the tip of cynicism in its own way. But we're going to keep an eye on the implementation of all of this. I'm not saying that, you know, in Ukraine, bad laws are being compensated by their failure to do so. We're going to hope that this is where all the pressure and press standards are being implemented, and they're just not going to be. In principle, we observe that laws that guarantee freedom of speech are not being implemented. Do you know that three patriotic national television channels are off? Before them there were no security claims, they were simply excluded from digital language. What's that called? It's very simple, censorship. Is this in line with European standards? No, he's not. But what we're saying right now is a lot of nice words about Euro-integration. I just want to remind you, this isn't about Ukraine, Ukraine hasn't been censored ever since Kuchma and won't take it any further. To those who hope to clean everything up, I'll remind you what this is all about -- revolutions. The boys who are on the front line are fighting for democracy, not for you and me to turn Ukraine into Russia and Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u177	The word is given to the Prince's Santa Claus. Please, in six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, 80 percent is a normal law, and, in fact, Mikita Poturayev, all the members of our committee have done a lot to make it normal. The Vyatrovic government has made good adjustments. We stood up for the right language. There are some problems with this law. I had the right to sound, I wouldn't sound them, put them to the vote. I'll read it here so you know what we're voting for. First. It's really a channel for joy. All over Europe there is a dual system of television, where there is social talk and commercialism. We've been disbarred. Now we're going back to national language. Even if we recorded that it would show a diary of Parliament, it is still a national language that, contrary to the Constitution, must be in universal programming service on every television set. So it's an unfair competition of public speaking with everything else. That's what we're going to have problems with in the European Union. It's obviously important not only to write laws, but also to implement them, the colleagues talked about it. And when we want to adopt the law, and at the time we have independent channels turned off, and the money for funding the "Council" channel, which through the Supreme Council goes and goes to a company close to one-family Yulia Volodymyrina, as the press writes, it's very little like that for freedom of speech. Now specifically about the adjustments I wanted to talk to you about. I wanted us to make sure that this law didn't spread to a young mother who once posted her son's video on YouTube. And it's spreading to her because she's also a medium. I wanted to set up an amendment that allows FOPs or legal persons to put information on their business. Because if some FOP advertises a kraft sausage in Instagram, it is also media and will come to it with a check and demand to pay taxes, and will be required to close it. I wanted to set up a law that would determine what is online media that should regulate this Media Act. Well, what it is is a major economic activity, mass information is spreading regularly, is editorial control, because this definition, which is online media, is not in the law. Obviously, I wanted to make a statement about the Council Channel that this is not a government channel, but an information bulletin on the activities of the Supreme Council, which, apart from our meetings and committee meetings, should not show anything more, as it is in European countries. We don't take into account our changes that relate to the transparency of ownership and transparency of financing. Who is the beneficiary of the media? It's written, but it's ineffective. No one will prove how the media is financed as new channels, and no one will understand or prove it. It's a huge flaw in this law, these corrections have not been taken into account. It was very important for us that when the Nazrad made a decision, she wrote a motivational part in accordance with the Law on Administrative Procedure. This law has a minimum standard for the motivational part of all decisions, and other laws can only extend it, not narrow it down. It turns out that we have barely complied with the requirements of the European Union for the introduction of uniform rules for the adoption of administrative acts, and by this law we will break down the Law on Administrative Procedure. I had an amendment that predicts that the regulatory acts of the National Council are adopted according to the pattern of any other organ, or to register with the Ministry of Justice. Under this law, the Nakrad can accept any act, not print it anywhere, and not register it anywhere. In this case, it is not clear what Nakrad is different from other government authorities and why it is necessary for Minust and the State Regulatory Service. I had a set of regulations that combines one goal: to order the adoption of regulatory acts by the Nacrad under the effective Law on the Principles of Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. There was still an amendment that suggested that the Nazrad should not approve its own plan for testing the media. In accordance with article 19 of the Code of Lords, this procedure of inspection is established exclusively by law, and the law establishes it. Because otherwise, the Nacrad can set itself up a test procedure, Minust doesn't check it, we can get an increase in the pressure on the media. And not only on the media, but also on the mother who made her baby on video and put it on the internet. And on that little entrepreneur who collects mushrooms or makes money, he's done it in an Instagram page. We give you the right to come to him with a background check, pick up all the documents, ask for everything, and then close this page. Obviously, democratic principles have nothing to do with these norms. Although it is obvious that the European Union, which requires this law from us, expects us to make a quality document. And we tried honestly on the committee to do everything that was up to us, and we corrected many mistakes. I believe that the mistakes that are here now will be corrected and made in the future by a normal European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, please also Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna and then Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov, after that, I think we will vote. Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have this beautiful European flag on this bill, and we would obviously count on it to ensure that we meet another condition that was presented to Ukraine when we were granted candidate status. Many copies were broken, broken during the discussions, during which the bill was discussed. And unfortunately, not all the errors or any deliberate violations of the European Union's law that are laid down in this bill have been accepted as a result of the compromises that have been approved. Unfortunately, this bill continues to expand Nakrad's mandate in a way that is not foreseen by the European Union Audiovisual Directive. Unfortunately, this bill restricts European media access to the Ukrainian market. Unfortunately, even with the compromise found on the Council channel, this bill actually cements the state media in Ukraine against the recommendations of the Council of Europe in 2005. And we were very excited about the last call when we were able to create a social language and get as far away from state television as possible in Ukraine. You're bringing us back to the Soviet Union. Because the "Council" channel is as shameful as it's been operating all this time, it's not a parliamentary newsletter. If we wanted to have a real parliamentary bulletin, we'd have, first of all, fully broadcast the information that's going on in the committees, in factions, in the plenary room, and second of all, we don't have enough money with you today for urgent needs. We're going around the world and asking for social expenses, for weapons, for our financial needs, and we could save you and me a little bit less. Because the "Council" channel could be translated into a web format, but you're not ready to do it, because someone really wants to use it as a propaganda tool. Ukraine is a democratic state. The Ukrainians are known, for us freedom is our religion, and really Ukrainians are protecting and protecting freedom on the front from Russian propagandists, including Russian aggression, from Russian military. So I'm sorry that we can't protect the democratic front inside this room, and we're doing it half way. Unfortunately, this bill also does not take into account the large number of other indicators provided for in this directive. We hear a promise that there will be a separate regulated advertising market. It is absolutely, the directive, it does not provide for any regulation of the electoral process. And so, thank God that there was enough wisdom in a few hours before this bill was considered, in fact, to give up this regulation specifically in this bill and to transfer it to the Electoral Code. Colleagues, we will be appreciated in the European Union not only by what we have written in this bill. We will be appreciated as to how, unfortunately, the dependent Nakrad will implement the things written in this bill and use its powers. We're going to be appraised by how the Nacrad is going to lay a paw on incompatible online media. I'm very warning all of us, let's stop hiding in the facade of Euro-integration. We really pay a price for this opportunity, we don't have the right to waste it, and we try to play with those thimbles every day, and we think we're gonna cheat someone. We're being considered under a very, very large scale. Let's stop making mistakes! Let us stop knowingly violating what will have to be done tomorrow! And to the end. I'd like to, maybe just take a moment to familiarize the hall with the decision you voted for in July. The ruling stated that when considering the Euro-Integration Bills, they would vote in order to take a decision in the first or subsequent readings after giving the floor to an authorised representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Integration into the European Union. So, no procedure to determine who from the committee represents this decision of the committee is included either in the law or in our decision. We on the committee have decided that we will present these bills in turn. But Mr. Head decides that if he is a representative of European Solidarity and even a committee head, she has no right to do so. I can't stand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, thank you. We finished the hearing. Please, three minutes, Arthur Gerasimov. Dear colleagues, after Mr. Gerasimov we vote eight more amendments and then we vote in favour of the law as a whole. I'll have the National Deputies invite you to the hall. Arthur Volodymyrovich, three minutes of yours, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, you know, first of all, I'd like to thank all the members of the committee. Because, in fact, they are very many, mildly so - called, of the bad things they have cleaned up there, really softly. Because this bill was completely with a double bottom, completely. Because it's really under this, you know, flag of Euro-integration that's where they put total censorship in Russian style. Now I think that's probably Russian style, but not in 2022 anymore, but in 1998-1999. It is, but it is much smaller. What I'd like to draw your attention to. In fact, this is one of the key conditions right now for us to maintain our candidate status, I want there to be no mistakes, no negotiations started, but we have a candidate status. Because it was given to us for the great heroism of the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian army, and now the task of Parliament is not to breed it. But you know, no matter what the law was really cleaning, there were so many bad things left, and, you know, many of you would also feel them on themselves, your families would feel them on themselves. For example, the Nacrad will be another controlling body that will be able to reach almost everyone on the Internet today. And today on the Internet, business is running, well, let's be honest, virtually everyone. They'll be able to take out the accounts, they'll be able to run checks. We're doing a liberalisation, which, by the way, "Serial of the People," if I'm not mistaken, was spoken of at the beginning of this chamber of parliament? One second. Did you know that the Nakrad is now working without Ministu? They don't have to try anything. In themselves, they will work without the motivational part of the ban. Do you understand what this is? So they're going to ban someone and they're going to. They don't have to do the motivational part, at least write: I got up from my left foot today, so I'm going to close this site, and tomorrow on the right, so I'm going to close the other one. They even write it. Maybe they don't. Besides, look, when we're talking about "The Council" TV, there's been a lot of talk about its component there that it's a state television channel. I'd like to draw your attention to something else. You're all, almost everyone in this room is spending your own money to help the army. You can see how the last 10, 5, 1 bracelet is sometimes given to help the army. Here 400 million go to the President's Office's net commercial. Well, boys and girls, come on, is that true or not? 400 million go out every year, let's face it, into the pipe, into pure propaganda. And finally. You know, I can say that all these flaws, they're in our pencil, and we're going to now form them into a separate bill and we're going to work with every deputy to get us into it, and we're actually going to have the right media code. But today, right now, I want to say that our path to European integration, which is enshrined in the Constitution by our team, is the main thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Irina Volodymyrna, this list of amendments: 53, 54, 144, 281, 282, 283, 284 – I turn to the vote as agreed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. Please give Irina Volodymyrne.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u184	Start with 144 revisions, minus 52 and 53, of 144.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u185	Okay. And no 917 because you took it off, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u186	Yeah, six amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u187	Okay. One, two, three. I've got five. Dear colleagues, 144 amendments. Please give your position to the committee on these amendments, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, look, I don't want to criticize the authors, the corrections themselves, we're gonna waste time on this. Their committee, their colleagues, rejected them, believe them, for objective reasons. Therefore, with respect to the authors, I ask that these amendments not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm placing 144 amendments to Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko's authorship. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[17:51:49]] For-69 Irina Volodymyrically, we agreed that we give six minutes, and we make adjustments in turn. Please show me the result again, I have to announce. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, 281 revisions of the venerable Irina Volodymyrovna Heratchenko The committee rejected it, but the author asked for it to be taken into account. I'll bet you 281. Please vote. [[17:53:07]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 282 Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Same situation, the committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[17:53:31]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 283 Amendment of People’s Deputy Heratchenko The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[17:53:54]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. And the final 284 amendment of Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[17:54:16]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. Dear friends, I propose to adopt the draft Media Act, number 2693-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:55:02]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, my friends! Hello! Dear colleagues, welcome, the Euro-Integrations have come to an end today, but there are other laws. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Then, according to our agreement, there will be a bill, one second, number. About BlackMornaftegas. What's the number, Alexander Sergiyovich? Now, now, a second, colleagues. BlackMornaftegas, No. 8158. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to the certification of a gas shelter operator and the continuation of measures to prevent the bankruptcy of the State Shareholder Association BlackMornaftogaz). Dear colleagues. Julia Volodymyrna, please, you're going to have a few amendments, right? Ten amendments. Ten minutes and we vote. Instead of the ten-minute amendments, Julia Volodymyrna. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, little bits of good news is over, yes, we need to talk seriously about this bill. I just wanted you to know that the title of this bill is to amend some of the laws on, there and so on, the bankruptcy of the National Shareholder Society of Black Mornaphtogaz. There is one amendment to this subject: the whole law is about something else. The whole law on how we Ukrainians will not run our gas shelters. I think you all remember that Ukraine had the third nuclear potential in the world. Do you remember that? And remember how we infamously betrayed him, and today we have consequences. I wanted us not to repeat these mistakes, our gas shelters are so powerful and so valuable that we are in the third place in the world by the power of our underground gas depots. The United States, the Russian Federation, the killer country and the aggressor, and Ukraine in third place. Please tell us, what do our gas reservoirs hold back, hinder us, or burden us? They can store 31 billion cubic meters of gas. For comparison, we consume about 17, 18, maybe we get to 20. So we can fully provide ourselves with gas reserves. By comparison, 31 billion in our gas reserves, and Poland consumes 15 billion cubic meters per year. We can not only provide ourselves but also provide for neighboring European countries. Why do we need gas dumps? I'm just going to explain to you on your fingertips so you can understand what we're voting for. The fact is, everyone knows that there is nowhere to go in the summer, there is no demand, and so in the summer, natural gas is much cheaper than autumn, winter, and spring. Ukraine, well, it's just that God has given these natural underground shelters. We can attach 31 billion cubic meters of gas in the summer and then fully provide ourselves. We don't have a problem with that at all. And part of Europe. The gas transport system, we've already slept it down, there's an enbandling, it's all gone you know where. Gas repositories as long as we can keep them. If they're used properly, it's an incredible part of our nation's energy security. And these are billions of revenue that can be the revenue of the state budget. I don't understand why we say goodbye to this law. What is provided for in this law? I'm just quoting specific things. The NCRECR regulator has the right to decide on the transfer of gas to the owners of a gas shelter, a State, that is, a State, that is, a State can either transfer gas storage rights to the operators of a gas depot to another entity. Nothing is explained in this law, to which other entity will be given our gas deposits. You might ask, who is this happiness for free, once and for all? That's an interesting story. Now, what can this entity really do to the gas transport system? Just listen. He shall have the right to vote in the organs of a legal person if the formation of such a body is provided by a statute. So this is the right to vote. The other one. The right to appoint legal persons. To whom do we give the right to appoint legal persons as officials, from supervisor to all others? And the last. Attention, please! Please, listen! It can also hold 50 percent or more of the corporate rights of the legal person of our gas depots. Who? Another person, another subject? What do we adopt laws about? It's just going to Ukraine with a totally rough, unprecedented selection of our gas deposits. That's not all. Once we accept that, we won't have the right to determine for ourselves which gas to attach, what volumes, what price, what term. Because this will be decided by the European authorities. Why? Who takes away the right to manage our underground gas depots? That's what the whole law is about! We just wanted to divide this law into BlackMornaftegas, for which we have to vote, and into gas vaults that cannot be voted for. Well, we couldn't split it up because in a law called BlackMornaftegas, the whole law on gas deposits and one regulation on BlackMornaftegas, you can't separate it. We can't vote for that. Dear friends, I mean, it's worth to understand that the decision of the NCREKP can give control to the "Gas Transport System Operator" or its separate gas repositories to other more reliable entities and organizations that we don't know about with you. Who? Who will decide who to give billions of dollars and all the national security of the state in the gas field? This provides for the possibility of essentially losing our gas repositories, which will make our gas transport system ineffective. Because the value of the gas transport system, a very large part of that value, is the gas reservoirs, the unique ones that we own with you. And so I want to ask you, well, sometimes Parliament has to defend the national interests of our state if other authorities for various political reasons cannot do so on their own. Pressure is going strong, and we are just surviving so that we can accept it and accept it until the new year. But it is up to you whether Ukraine will be deprived of that property or not. And who ever made the decision that we could give 50 percent of the gas repositories to our uncle and then go, do you know where? So, dear friends, I ask you, if you care about the energy independence of our state, if you care about the property of a unique one that must remain in the hands of Ukraine, do not let that happen, I ask you very much. Do whatever you want, get out of the hall, take out the card, then explain 300 times, but do not let this law vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u191	Thank you, Reverend Julia Volodymyr. Please, I'll ask you again. Andrew Mikhailovich, where? Gerus. Please, briefly, if possible, present your position from the committee. And I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, and we'll vote. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich, come to the rostrum. I'd like to invite the people's deputies to the hall. The position of the committee after what they said.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, the committee supported Bill 8158 for the second reading. And I would like to point out that this bill is important not only in the Black Mornaphtegas section, but it is equally important in the certification of underground gas reservoirs. What is it? Let's take an honest and sober look at this situation, what is it? In the summer of this year, all European countries introduced appropriate certification of underground gas depots in order to understand, first, the structure of ownership of these underground gas repositories, and simply say whether there is a Russian trace, whether there is no Russian trace, or whether Gazprom owns underground gas repositories in European countries, because it is a matter of national security in European countries and we see it. So, first, who is the owner, and second, who is the operator, who runs these underground gas dumps? This must all be explained and this must all be clear in the process of certification. Just to synchronize our rules and our certification with European rules, we accept the bill. And it poses no threat to us from the point of view of governance or from the point of view of decision-making, because those underground gas depots will continue to be owned by Ukraine and will remain in the administration of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. So in this case, certification is going to be very easy because we don't have Gazprom either owns underground gas repositories, is not the operator of these underground gas repositories. So we need to do this certification, show all European countries that we apply the same approach and the same rules. And this will open the door for us to save not just European gas, but European gas reserves. So I ask everyone to vote that we synchronize our rules and that we move towards European integration, including in part energy. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u193	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to the certification of the gas shelter operator and the continuation of measures to prevent the bankruptcy of the State Shareholder Association "Cornomornaftogaz") (registration No. 8158). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[6:07:30.]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 5655. Everyone's done the repairs. The only thing is the faction "ES" is three minutes for the Princely, and we are voting in favour of this bill. Did I say it right? Please, Mr. Mikola Knieżicki, three minutes, and then we vote in favour of the bill. Colleagues, this is the last decision we make today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, you may have seen today the mayors of Ukrainian cities -- both the mayor of Kiev and the mayor of Lviv, and the mayor of Zitomir, and the mayors of many other cities that people have chosen -- all of them against this project. We limit the rights of local communities, but according to a bill, local self-government authorities lose the ability to introduce special conditions into urban documentation that would take into account local architectural, historical, environmental specificities. They seem to be empowered to create their own organs, but they are of a purely optional nature, and the builder can do anything without addressing them. You've also seen the statement of the Fair Movement, the Anti-Corruption Centre, leading media, such as "The Mirror of the Week," they all claim that the bill only takes into account the lobbyist interests of the outsiders, and the civil society has not been heard in the preparation of the project. Everyone is asking to postpone the consideration of this project. This project was not tested for the corruption risks that the NAMC had begun. And they're complaining that they don't have enough time to process the bill table, where they don't have more than 3,000 300 licenses. Obviously, all the Supreme Council would do in this situation is take the project off the table and send it out for further work. What matters to me personally is that our Committee of Humanitarian Policy has not considered this bill at all. Although the introduction of the principle of silent agreement for an expert study on the enforcement of cultural heritage legislation will guarantee the loss of thousands of historical and cultural objects that are important to Ukraine. We were handing out some good books about Scorod, where he was. How many significant monuments and sites in Ukraine all of them may be destroyed. The builder's interests can ruin anything to build a parking lot or a shopping mall that can destroy any monument, cannot be higher than the interests of society and the preservation of cultural heritage. No silent agreement can be accepted here. The introduction of a requirement for private controllers in the form of an insurance contract will ensure that the public is removed from the ability to create such control organizations. In fact, this bill creates private DABIs and gives it to the builders themselves to determine what, where and on what conditions they will build. We can't support a law that makes it impossible to complain about the actions of a prodigal. We cannot support significant sanctions for minimal violations in the development of project documentation. And that's why all the architects are taking firm action against this law. The biggest problem: The law actually destroys the rights of local self - government that we have built for so long, which we have guaranteed for so long. That's why our faction is asking us to send this project for processing, and we won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, are you ready? I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on urban reform (registration number 5655). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? People's deputies please vote in favour of Bill 5655. [[18:11:59]] For 228 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, next. Come on, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u196	Colleagues, let's vote for the immediate signing of Euro-Integration Laws and 8158. I ask you to put to the vote the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council to sign such bills without delay today, adopted as a whole: 8224 on national minorities (communities), 7662, -63 on KSU, 2693-d on media, and 8158, because it has to enter into force by the new year. Please put to the vote. [[18:13:04]] For 275 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u197	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, we still have today, as I recall, one, this is the blocking decree 5552-1-P. This is a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 1.12.2022 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights (registration number 5552-1) (since 09.06.2021). Is there a decision maker? None. There's no need to discuss it, shall we? I'd like to make an offer to accept the entire Bill of Decrees 5552-1-P. People's deputies are requested to identify and vote. [[6:14:05]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Thank you. A restraining order has been withdrawn. Alexander Sergiyovich, the ad, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u198	According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich from the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-12-13-m0.u199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your fruitful work today. The agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for this wonderful, effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We're working on it, we're working on it. Glory to Ukraine!
