ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! First of all, I'm sorry that we've all been delayed because we've had an unannounced meeting of leaders of political factions and groups with the Minister of Defense and the Commander-in-Chief, and that's why we've discussed these issues. I think your colleagues will inform you of our meeting. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that once the login is started, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the login. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:06:42]] There are 181 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of President Vladimir Alexander Zelensky of Ukraine. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, and today is our colleague's birthday, the national deputy of the Ukraine of Roxolana Andriyovna Podlasoj, "Serve of the People." Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups for proposals, announcements and reports. So I ask the factions and groups to sign up. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Yuri Anatolyevich, please Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u2	Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, I'm sure today's situation. For the first time in 30 years of independence, our country has so many challenges: military conflict in the East, energy danger, price increases, the fight against the epidemic -- all of which we have today. And the main thing is that we have absolutely inadequate power, random and unprofessional people in power, who live their own lives in their own fantasies and are completely separated from the needs of society. The main threat in the country today is the military conflict in the east. Today’s authorities and current presidents have promised to bring peace to the country. What do we see today after two years of rule? We see a completely blocked triangular contact group process, we're practically out of Normandy format, we're in conflict for eight years, we're losing people, we're stopping the economy, and when the conflict breaks out, investors are just running out of the country, taking money. The acting president, his ministers, on the one hand, are urging Western partners to provide assistance, on the other hand, allowing contempt for their addresses. I am sure that the main task of today's Parliament is to bring peace to the country. Our faction has registered the Supreme Council Order on the immediate implementation of the Minsk Treaties and the cessation of hostilities. This is a responsible political step that will immediately reduce tensions both in the country and outside. If this Parliament is not capable of such political steps that the whole country is facing, it is necessary simply to have a political and simple human conscience to dissolve itself and allow the people of Ukraine to choose a new parliament, new deputies to fulfill their promises to bring the country to peace and to prove it to society. That's fair, that's fair and that's our political position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u3	Yuri Kamelchuk, "Serial of the People" faction, please. Camelchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u4	Please pass the word to David of Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u5	Please, David Arahami, "Serve of the people," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u6	Dear friends, dear colleagues, congratulations on your first sessional day! We'll be there tonight. My speech is about the situation that is now on the border of Ukraine. All of us are concerned, all of you, your friends, your relatives, your constituents are concerned about one question: the security of our country, the safety of our families. You know, since 2014, we've actually had a war with the Russian Federation and everybody's used to it. But the hybrid war, and everyone understands that it's such an interesting term for "hybrid war," I think since October of this year we've heard and felt that it's a hybrid component, an information component. This information-psychological specialty hasn't been in Ukraine in a long time, you know, how panic is being suppressed, and how many people react to it, and, as a condition, the paws are being "helped" now known to the world editions. So our task with you as national deputies and as a parliament is to monitor and actually move in the way our military does. Our military are now demonstrating stability, demonstrating a cold mind, preparing for every scenario possible -- but no panic, no destabilization, anything like that. Otherwise, if this works, if the Ukrainians succumb to this panic, we're actually risking putting the entire economy of Ukraine at risk. And even if there's no escalation and no aggression, Russia will actually do its job, and people will start taking deposits from banks, they'll stop buying housing, they'll stop spending money, and they'll stop economic development in the country. So I'm warning everyone against these scenarios, and I want us to focus, regardless of what political programs we have with you, on which political party we're from, on helping our army, on our military and on telling our electorate specifically, on all the voters that we don't need to panic, on doing any manipulation right now, on watching the events. We had a closed meeting with the Ministry of Defense today at 9 a.m., and we got all the answers we needed. So we keep calm and work. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u7	Heroim Slava! The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice". And I understand what he's saying. Rudik Kira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u8	Good afternoon! I, Kira Ruddick, leader of the Voice Party. In the last few months, Ukrainians have begun to pay attention to politicians, and today, I'm sure many of them are watching the meetings of the Supreme Council, so that, according to our speeches, we can read between the lines to answer the question, and what will happen next, whether there will be escalation and, most importantly, whether we are ready. People are talking about who they voted for to understand whether or not we are able to do the one task that we are facing right now: to strengthen our resilience and protect and preserve our country. It's one task, regardless of whether we're in power or we're in opposition. Because the only smart, adult step in Ukrainian politics right now is to reject all possible political ambitions and contradictions and to work for this one task. Yes, it also includes information to prevent panic. Yes, it includes laws that we are introducing to strengthen our army in order to strengthen our military. Yes, it has other challenges to tackle other crises that we are talking about much less now. Today, every Ukrainian politician must make a decision based on two criteria. The first is to unite or disunite society. And we all need to work together. The second is that it sends our country or it weakens. And each of us has to work only for reinforcements, because once again political ambitions are much less important than the preservation of our state. Today, apart from the issue of escalation by Russia, we have been preserved and there have been no three crises. The first is economic. Because we all see price increases and we see how every Ukrainian and small and medium-sized business suffers. The Voice Party is drafting a tax bill to keep more money in people's pockets. The second is the energy crisis, which is that every year the heating season comes unexpectedly to us, and the Voice party has the answer, and this is the question that we're going to present our drafts this week. The third question is the threat of COVID. I'm sure now everyone has more and more acquaintances, more and more people who are sick again. And that's why we're calling for vaccination.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I won't remind you, because you know with what mind and with what fears, warnings, concerns every family in our country lives today. I don't think there's any other conversation in any family today, no kitchen, except war. And it seems to me that people who have been brought into a very difficult economic and social situation today have received another blow: fear, uncertainty, misunderstandings about Ukraine's borders. This morning, the faction leaders met with the Ukrainian Defence Minister and other high - ranking military leaders to tell the factions about the serious threat of a full - scale military invasion. Now we've heard comforting words, but that doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean that as a country, we don't have the right to rely on a case, whether it's gone or gone, whether it's brown, whether it's a full-scale invasion or not. It took us a long time, and especially now we are preparing in every direction to protect Ukraine. And the first thing we saw today, and we actually knew that our army was fundamentally underfunded, starting with what our military would receive as cash and how the army would be provided with everything. And when the question arose today at a meeting where we took financial resources to provide the army, we heard from the authorities that we needed to repair roads and build, and that's why we have a secondary army. Dear friends, it's not about corruption that everyone understands today, it's about building roads, and it's about protecting the country -- it's an absolute priority. And what we see today in finance, in the economy, in inflation, in tariffs, in energy is all scary. And that's why our team came up with the initiative to create a national unity government, not a blah blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. As long as we're here to suffer chaos inside the country, it's going to be hard to protect our borders. Today I address the President openly.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u12	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I agree with our colleagues who have already spoken about the fact that we are starting the new political year in very difficult conditions: on the one hand, the real complexity of the economic character, the threat of the stable functioning of the energy sector in increasing prices for products and goods, on the other hand, the situation of increasing concentration alongside our borders of the multi-million-dollar Russian army, the rise in information and cyber attacks on Ukraine. And it's all, unfortunately, against the backdrop of another political upheaval inside the country. That's why our "Trust" MP group is also addressing representatives and leaders of all political factions and groups in the Supreme Council to really stop figuring out their disputes, quarrels and unite around an idea that is extremely important today -- the normal, peaceful conditions for the country's life, the creation of security. Today we have to talk about strengthening our borders, providing all the necessary armies, creating effective territorial defence forces. It is in this context that the meeting, which has now taken place under the chairmanship of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was attended by leaders of political factions and groups, speaks of what we all understand, what we need to do today, what legislative acts we need to adopt in order to ensure a stable situation in the country. I want to tell you that in recent years even school kids are starting to talk about the threat of invasion. So these are serious things. I'm drawing the attention of our trust MP group to the issues that we're going to be discussing this week. Bill 5289, which aims to simplify the procedure of purchases for social institutions, schools, kindergartens, and hospitals. This bill awaits the territorial communities, and, of course, I ask my colleagues to support it. We are prepared to work on Bill 5090, which deals with amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on budgetary relations in the implementation of treaties. This may lead to the conclusion of investment projects and the involvement of funds. And, of course, the question of the state budget review, the allocation of funds for our Ukrainian army. Thank you. I wish everyone a productive job.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u14	Please give the floor to National Deputy Labazuk Sergey Petrovich, Group "For the Future". Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u15	Good afternoon, dear fellows! According to Winston Churchill, who successfully fought two empires -- Nazi and Red -- any crisis is a new opportunity. The important thing is that we do not create this crisis in our own home. Therefore, our parliamentary group "For the Future" is constantly and again addressing all the political forces that are in Parliament and outside Parliament, addressing the need for the unity of political elites and political parties, the need to reject their ambitions, to think about Ukraine and for the sake of Ukraine, for the sake of ordinary citizens, and not for themselves. And not just in the context of the recent celebration, of course, of the Day of Assembly. We are convinced that the possible aggression of the Russian Federation, which we are now hearing about, is also due to the fact that Ukraine in Russia's consciousness will never again become Russia and will never return to the new Soviet Union if someone dreams of restoring it. We know that Russia has fully embarked on the path of dictatorship and the perpetuation of international law that it has demonstrated in recent years. So we have two different world views of the formation of world history in a civilized world. We practice peace and democracy, and we hope that we have reliable international partners who, too, want to take over this military aggressor along with us, rather than actually turning to our embassies with warnings about evacuating their employees. We hope that our international partners are stable and confident, just as we, the Ukrainian nation, are confident of ourselves, that we can overcome our internal fragmentation. And that's why our appeal today is to overcome internal leadership, the desire to pull a blanket on yourself, selfishness and to become side by side. And this is an important mission of the Ukrainian Parliament. We need to look for additional opportunities, financial resources to support the Ukrainian army to support the military. We have heard assurances from the Ministry of Defense that an additional 2.7 billion is needed to strengthen the territorial defense. And I believe that we must immediately gather and accept the appropriate changes to the State Budget of Ukraine. The main inner enemy today is panic. And let us not give any reason for today’s spread of this negative phenomenon. Let's think about Ukraine, work for Ukraine, and win for us! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u16	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy of Ion’s Mary Mikolayovni. Political party. Oh, please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the European Solidarity Party and our leader, Peter Poroshenko, strongly demand that the Ukrainian Parliament immediately allocate 50 million dollars to support the Ukrainian army. The army requested 39 million in the budget, and that was not done. We demand that political persecution be stopped immediately and that Ukraine be established as a democratic country immediately. In this context, our European Solidarity Party supports the address of the National Round Table under the auspices of the Kiev Security Forum, which was convened for the initiative of the Arsenija Yatsenuk Foundation. In particular, I will read the points of this reference. "We call on the leadership of Ukraine to demonstrate a strong will and unite the entire Ukrainian people to defend our nation, to strengthen alliance with other democratic countries to defend our independence and freedom together. On all criminal requirements Putin Ukraine must say no. We urge the authorities and society to recognize that the main advocate of our independence is the Ukrainian soldiers -- men and women -- and to concentrate all national forces on supporting the Armed Forces, their priority funding, the introduction of modern means of deterrence. We call for a historic mission of our time and for the completion of the necessary transformations and requirements for joining NATO, the European Union. We demand the continued observance of the democratic values and freedoms of our people, the cessation of any illegal persecution of national opposition, the assassination of freedom of speech and free will. We call for an immediate halt to attempts to undermine anti-corruption institutions and to complete judicial reform as soon as possible. We call for conditions for free economic development in Ukraine, to stop an untraceable attack on small, medium and large businesses, foreign investors, to guarantee levels, transparent, competitive rules for all, regardless of their proximity to power. We urge you to guarantee a course for complete energy independence from Russia, Belarus. We call for sustained compliance with legislation to protect Ukrainian language as a national language. We call for a system of fighting Russian propaganda and agency. Welcome to the dialogue of the President of Ukraine. At the same time, we call for cooperation from interested political parties, public activists all over the country. The time has come to unite the forces of Ukrainian patriots, to create joint networks of action, to help territorial defense, and to protect the state together. We call upon the whole free world to support freedom and the struggle of democracy." This is the address of the Kiev round table of the National Security Forum, which supports "European Solidarity". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we have a statement from two factions about a break with a replacement for a performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we've taken a break and replaced it with just one goal -- to remind all the national MPs and especially those who represent today's power, that there are micro-entrepreneurs gathered around Parliament today, small entrepreneurs from all over the country. There are tens of thousands of them. You go out, see what's going on there: covered roads, surrounded parliament, blocked entrances. I just want to freshen up a little bit in the memory of the MPs, why people from all over the country are holding the jobs of the people who created their own jobs today, and now they have these jobs. I want to remind them that they came because instead of having the party of power to give them the opportunity to support them, some further weakening during the Coronavirus epidemic, they mentioned that every country in the world is in the middle class, and they're given the opportunity to work. Instead, they took their lives, took their jobs, took away their children, and made them, and took away the opportunity to live in Ukraine. Some of them have simply left Ukraine, cursing the moment that they voted for it. And those who remain, those who don't want to run from Ukraine, today they stand under Parliament in the cold, and on their knees beg the authority they choose to remember their lives, their existence, and they ask you to cancel your inhumane decisions against small business, give them the normal opportunity to work. Now invite their initiative group into the house of the people, which is called Parliament, not to sit around and smile with all the smiles, looking out at the window of how they're knocking at your door that you've locked in front of the people. We demand immediately with their mouths, to accept their delegation, to listen immediately to the leaders of the factions. Second, Bill 5866 or 66-1 put as urgent today to consider and accept, to allow people who have already been hit by the elbows, to live, to work, to provide their families, to buy bread, to have jobs. I urge you to immediately put to the vote a matter of immediate consideration, urgent, 5866-1 and listen to entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, let's get to work. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you. So let's get to the point. The first issue of today's agenda is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 15.12.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Law on the Effective Administration of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights on the provision of income collection by collective management organizations. I report that in accordance with the Rules this issue is dealt with by a reduced procedure and without a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary meeting in accordance with part nine of article 48 of the Ukrainian Rules. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to this issue, and I invite the author of this decree, National Deputy of Ukraine, Buymester Ludmila Anatoliyevna. Please. I'm sorry, is there no author of the ruling? That's our interest in blocking orders, colleagues. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u21	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Regulatory Committee at its session, reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Cancellation of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 15 December 2021 on the Adoption of the Second reading and the whole of the draft Law on the Effective Administration of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Complementary Rights on the Ensuring of the Collection of Rights Income by Collective Management Organizations, registered number of Law 5572, introduced by the People's Deputy Buymeister. Registration number of the draft regulation 5572-P. The draft decree proposes that the relevant decision of Parliament on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Law, registration number 5572, should be repealed, since, according to the author of the draft decree, this law was adopted in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, in particular article 32. The Regulatory Committee, having considered this issue, adopted a conclusion on the draft Decree (registration 5572-P) and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine be determined by a vote on the adoption or rejection of this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u22	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this provision? Because if she's not even interested in the author of this decision, I don't think there's any discussion. So, with your permission, I'm putting this order to a vote. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 15.12.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on the effective administration of property rights of rightholders in copyright and (or) related rights on the provision of income collection by collective management organizations (project registration number 5572-P). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:38:10]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Dear colleagues, the next is the blocking of Decree 6055-P. Let us go to its consideration. This is a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.12.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft National Commission Act implementing national regulation in the fields of electronic communications, radio spectrum and postal services (registration number 6055-P). In accordance with the Rules, this provision shall be considered for a reduced procedure and without a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary meeting in accordance with part nine of article 48 of the Rules. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the statement of the author of this decree by the Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u23	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm not going to be talking about this law for very long, I'm going to read just one paragraph from the conclusion of the judiciary: "The grave positions of the project are in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, they don't take into account the legal positions of the Constitutional Court, they don't comply with the current legislation and they don't contain sufficient and completed legal mechanisms." I would very much like to see at least this year's Supreme Council Hall end the practice of voting openly against constitutional laws. I'm sure you'll miss this decision right now, so I won't be spending much time on it. But I want to ask a more important question is a violation of the Rules, which, unfortunately, has become a practice in this room, not even isolated cases. I remember one of the candidates here in September, and then the First Deputy Head of Parliament, complaining so strongly that the Rules were not working very well and we needed parliamentary reform. Unfortunately, there is no Mr. Korneyenk, and I'd like to ask him, and how is parliamentary reform going on? What do we have with the New Rules, which we have been promised to prepare together with European partners? How did it happen that the Council channel was handed over to the President's Office by hand? How did it happen that factions' heads were being gathered at the meeting, and then the President's Office completely overturned all decisions? And the studio stays there, and individual experts or leaders stay, even though they promised. How come we've completely lost parliamentary control, and ministers don't even want to report before they're released? Well, actually, as it happened, from this rostrum, we were promised that something would change in Parliament, and that everything was, or worse, even worse. Unfortunately, Mr. Korneyenka is not here, so I hope that when he arrives in the hall, he will answer these questions. You can break it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u24	I invite the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u25	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing Parliament's decision of 16 December on second reading adoption and the draft National Commission Act, which regulates the national regulation in the fields of electronic communications, radio spectrum and the provision of postal services by the National Deputy of Iron and Steel (registration number of draft regulation 6055-P). This draft regulation proposes that Parliament's decision of 16 December on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft of the relevant law be repealed, since, as the author of the draft, the law was adopted in violation of the Rules, in particular the part of the first article 117. On the basis of the Committee's consideration of the matter, the Committee adopted a conclusion on the draft Registration Order 6055-P and decided to recommend to Parliament that it be decided by a vote on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u26	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this provision? Yes. Please write it down: two for, two for, two for. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kaptielov Roman Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u27	Please pass the word to Paul Frow.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u28	Paul Froll, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u29	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Today we are again considering the decision to annul the Supreme Council decision and we are effectively blocking the work of the Supreme Council again. See, in the seventh vocation, only 40 such decrees were registered for all vocations. In the past, 117 such decrees have been registered in nearly five years of the work of the Supreme Council. In this ninth vocation, esteemed colleagues, attention, we have only been working for two years and several months, for 167 decrees. Well, why are you registering them? You register them just to prevent the Supreme Council from working. This is because there is no parliamentary obstruction because no decision is taken. In the last ten years, over ten years of the Supreme Council, no such decree has been adopted, nor has it been voted. Why are you blocking the Supreme Council's work? You have the constitutional capacity to revoke a decision, a decision adopted by the Supreme Council law, an appeal to the Constitutional Court, the President's veto or a new bill repealing the adopted law. There is no such procedure for revoking the decision of the Supreme Council in any of the parliaments of the world. Well, what are you turning the Supreme Council into? I believe that we should make changes to this 48th article of the Rules and cancel this possibility. Well, this is an absurd situation. What are we considering? There was a time when you argued against the law. An adopted law, please let this Parliament work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u30	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u32	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u33	I would like to answer some questions raised by my esteemed colleague Paul Frowl. Dear colleague, you know that at least this decision allows you to gather your votes in the hall right now. Because 181 people's deputies in the hall after almost 40 days of rest, it kind of looks bad. I'm afraid you'll be breaking other laws today, too. I'd really like to understand why we have to hurry. Open the agenda. In order to accept tax cuts on the gambling business today? Should we then vote against correcting spam and restricting the rights of national MPs? Should I Vote Rights for Tobacco Monopolies on Thursday? What exactly do we want to be able to accept this week? If you were to form at least some decent agenda, I would be able to rescind it accordingly. Now, about the availability of these regulations. I realize that sometimes bad dancers can get in the way. But Parliament is a parliament, and such rules are prescribed, and they work. There's an experctor of Parliament, Andry Volodymyrovich Parubius. And once in the past, even the availability of regulations and even fewer coalitions did not prevent the reform of ProZorro, medical reform, financial reform, other things that you are proud of, including now. So, respected colleagues, it's very easy to complain about the rules when they're working against you. It's no big deal, what you're looking at here is not going to happen and it's not going to happen. I would strongly advise everyone, before starting any reforms, especially with regard to parliamentary reform, to read the recommendations of those European colleagues that you referred so much to when you released the expert. There's a lot of smart stuff out there, but there's definitely no recommendation to change this section about regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u34	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Koltunović Aleksandr Sergiyovich, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, first of all, about electronic communications of the radio spectrum and the provision of postal services. The question is certainly relevant, but a colleague and reporter during his first speech pointed out that the individual positions of this basic law, which we voted on back in the past year, conflict with the individual positions of the Constitutional Court and are appropriate explanations. This time. It would be necessary to pay attention, or at least to make changes to the basic law. But I can't help but reply, the two previous speakers gave a very good tone to the discussion. And as for the efficiency of Parliament's work, what we do here, and the main thing, which is the economic and social impact. Well, look, the Council has been working for more than two years, and one year is nine months before the end of the Supreme Council’s ninth vocation. What did we leave behind? More specifically, the government that works for today and, in principle, all power. Plus $13 billion in government debt. So we went in with the same numbers, today we gave up plus 13 billion dollars. Are we working effectively? To put it mildly, not very much. One second. Why are the issues related to overcoming the budget deficit of the Pension Fund and Ukraine’s total budget of 189 billion dollars not resolved? Need to Decide? You have to. Why are there no such questions? I don't mind us ignoring certain things and not always insisting on performances and other things. But I am deeply convinced that the squabble you are proposing from 23 issues of order, in a mild sense, is in no way in any way in line with the challenges that are present in society today. Where's the energy issue, where's the Donbas conflict management issue? Where are a number of other things that are of vital importance to our day, which stimulate employment, and so forth? We will certainly not take part in the vote for this decree. But I want to point out that the agenda has to meet the challenges of time and the needs of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u36	The word is given, and the National Deputy Ariev Vladimir, the faction of European Solidarity, is still asking for it, and then we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the faction of "European Solidarity" will abstain from voting in favour of this decree, although this is such a compromising decision, because the flaws in the approved bill, which is to become law, are sufficient. But I want to focus on two things. First. Let us, by means of such decrees, not touch the Rules. Because this, first of all, destroys the rights of opposition and not just the opposition, but every national MP who doubts that the bill has been adopted in a normal manner. Don't touch the Rules, you've already broken them so you won't be able to figure it out. And second moment. The Commission, the regulator, has to start working. Because what is happening today in cybersecurity and, in particular, the question that the Council of National Security and Defence has never met after the cyber attack on state websites, while European partners were meeting, is the disgrace and inaction of today's power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this issue, we're moving on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.12.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the entire draft National Commission Act implementing national regulation in the fields of electronic communications, radio spectrum and postal services (registration number 6055-P). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:51:49]] For-25 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Dear colleagues, in view of our rejection of this decision, I would like to make such an offer. This bill, it had to be accepted and entered into force on January 1. At the same time, this rule remained in connection with the blocking of this decree. If, using 131 articles, I suggest that I correct the flaws and come in from the next day. No, I have such a right, colleagues. Dear colleagues, if there is such a possibility, let's support that we have the purity of this law. Dear colleagues, on January 18, 2022, I was asked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation to remove, in accordance with the requirements of Article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the editorial inaccuracies of the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission on Electronic Communications, Radio Spectrum and Postal Services adopted on December 16, 2021. According to part two of article 131 of the Rules, the issue of the elimination of disagreements or editorial irregularities in the adopted law is dealt with by the Supreme Council without its prior inclusion in the agenda of the daily plenary meeting on the day it was delivered by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Proposals for the settlement of disagreements have been made on the basis of a decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on digital transformation issues since 18 January 2022 (Protocol No. 62) on the need to resolve disagreements regarding the taking up of validity of these laws are proposed: Section III, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission on Electronic Communications, Radio Spectrums and the provision of postal services: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." Dear colleagues, I, with your permission, am putting this motion to a vote and I ask you to support it in order to obtain the legal purity of this law. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this motion to a vote, and I'm asking the national MPs to vote. [[10:54:16]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Yeah, let's move on, the disagreement is fixed. The next question that we have to consider in accordance with the agenda is the draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify possible facts of violation by the Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of human rights oaths. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, this issue does not need to be included in the agenda and its consideration is reduced. But to consider a simplified procedure, we need to make the right decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner, and we need 150 votes to make this decision. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:55:25]] For 185 Decision taken. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Maxim Evgenovich Dirdin. Please, Maxim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the heads of the deputy factions and groups of the Supreme Council have received statements from Ukrainian citizens regarding the violation of the issue of discharge from the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights of Ludmila Denisov on the basis of judicial decisions. The court’s decisions determine the wrongful refusal of the Authorized Officer to examine the applicant’s electronic communications and oblige the Ombudsman to reconsider his electronic communications. On the date of writing his applications, namely August 21, the complainant points out that the above-mentioned courts have never been executed. Overcoming the issue of judicial decisions against the Commissioner’s Office has become known that there are not only decisions on the applicant’s claims but also others who question the rightness to perform their duties under the oath. Taking this into account, I have registered in the Supreme Council a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the possibility of violating the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with respect to the human rights of the oath itself. I was sent letters about the creation of the TSK to all the MP factions and groups, but the proposals for participation came only from the factions of the "Serve of the People", "Fathership", from the MP group "Trust". From the MP's factions, the opposition platform for life, European solidarity, the Voice and the "For the Future" MPs didn't come. I would like to point out that after the registration of the Project, I began to receive references, statements and messages from other questions about the activities of the Authorized. The draft Resolution currently put to the vote will allow for a preliminary consideration of whether or not there are grounds for the release of the Authorized. Dear colleagues, please support this initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u40	It is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenko. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u41	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of possible violations by the National Deputy Dirdin of the Supreme Council for Human Rights of Ukraine (registration number of the draft Decree 6322). According to the proposals of parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups that have joined the initiator, it is proposed that this Temporary Special Commission, the deputies representing the factions of the People's Servant Party, the Father's Party and the trust MPs. Other parliamentary factions and groups did not offer their candidates. The Regulatory Committee concluded that there was a need for editorial clarification, namely, in paragraph 3 of the draft decree, which states that the quantification of the Temporary Special Commission is 9 national deputies of Ukraine, based on design practices, in the portion of the use of carnivores less than 10, the number 9 should be prescribed. So in summary, the regulatory committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider this draft regulation, taking into account the editorial refinement of our committee in its conclusion, and take a decision in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u42	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Danuci Alexandr Anatolyevich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u43	Please pass the word to your colleague Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u44	Please, National Deputy Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, there is a question of voting, because after the registration of this decree, there was a lot of appeal, and in writing, and in lips, about the consideration of this issue, of its importance. It's not what's going to be registered, it's going to be created by this TSC and it's going to be decided, we have to verify it, those facts, or confirm it, or disprove it, and that's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u46	The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Dmitri Valeriusz Lubinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u48	Lubinet Dmitri Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u49	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will not support and vote in favour of this decision. We are definitely against such an initiative. As head of the Human Rights Committee, I now address the initiator. Please tell me why these facts were not sent to our committee, which is involved in monitoring the activities of the Commissioner? Now all that's going on here is just a circus: on the basis of one statement, one Ukrainian citizen, who was exposed to criminal conduct, who was constantly addressing all the organs, and it was like he was constantly looking for something to get attached to. You can imagine a person who writes more than 50 applications a day and constantly asks for answers within a ten - day period. This person was simply a provocation aimed at discrediting the activities of the Authorized Supreme Council on Human Rights. So I call on the people's deputies: if you'd like to discuss, please come to our committee, send your statements, come, we're having multiple meetings, including with the Commissioner. I can give you the only figures that show the confidence of Ukrainian society in the Ombudsman. During the year, 40 percent of calls to Dennis were made. This is 60,000 people, and one turned out to be against it. So, honourable national deputies, if you'd like to know, come to our committee. And now you can't vote for that. And we ask you not to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u50	The word is given to the national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, the faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u51	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Parliament is now considering a sufficiently serious issue, I think, with the indictment of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council, which seems to have violated the oath, and the creation of an appropriate temporary special commission. In this regard, I would like to point out a few points. The first is the creation of a temporary special commission, not a temporary commission of inquiry. Therefore, a positive decision requires 226 votes of the national deputies, no less. Second, if such serious accusations are to be made, the facts would have to be seen. I got a good look at the draft ruling, but I'm sorry, the charge that the Commissioner didn't respond to any one e-mail, or two e-mails, is that a violation of an oath? Yes, honourable national MPs, under such a principle may be charged with violating the oath of every national MP who has not responded to a letter. Well, that's true. Therefore, I believe that in the situation in which Ukraine is in a situation of human rights violations, especially in temporarily occupied territories, in Crimea and in Donbas, when citizens of Ukraine are being abused, we, as a parliament, have to support the Commissioner for Human Rights, because it is the only body in the country that protects human rights. Let's not shake this organ that works. Just a year from now, a five - year term will be set for the Commissioner of Human Rights. Then all the questions that the national deputies have will be asked by the Authorized One. But right now, I think we need to strengthen the organs that protect human rights, not rock them and not destroy them. Therefore, Fatherland will not vote in favour of this draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u52	Wait, we still have Mamka on file. Please, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u54	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, unlike other colleagues of ours, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this draft decision. I'll give you a few clear examples of why the position and activity of the Commissioner for Human Rights is unacceptable. In principle, it does not make sense and does not carry out its basic duties. First. Illegal, unconstitutional sanctions against Ukrainian citizens were imposed in the country. Where is the position of the Authorized Human Rights Council? She's gone. If you want the facts, look at the media monitoring. There is no statement, no message, not even a statement. Let's move on. In an illegal way, five independent information channels are closed: NewsOne, ZIK, "112 Ukraine", UKRRLIFE and "First Independent". Where is our Human Rights Council Commissioner? Why are journalists’ rights violated in a cynical way? It's not there either. Let's keep looking. The political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" is being subjected to political repression against the leader of our party, the head of the political tradition of Victor Medvedchuk's party. Ten months home arrest. Ten! Where is the statement made by the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights? And so on and so on and so forth. So this list can be continued for a very long time. But the fact that the Institute of the Commissioner for Human Rights doesn't work is a fact. And these are just the isolated examples that I've just given you. So first, we're going to support the creation of the TSC. The other one. The objects of knowledge must be expanded, because the inaction of such a fundamental institution, which is to defend the rights of Ukrainian citizens, is now completely declassified, completely disgruntled. And that's why, in our opinion, this institution actually needs a full reboot. Thank you for your attention and please support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u56	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni. Please, Irina Volodymyrna, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. Based on the fact that not all factions have even submitted their representatives to this so-called TSC, we see a clear politicization of this issue. Human rights need serious attention from the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the right to work, the right to security, the right to education, the right to freedom of meeting, the right to freedom of speech, today these fundamental rights of Ukrainians are being violated, and we would also like to have a more active position of the Honourable Commissioner on these issues. But today we see selective justice not only in criminal conduct against opposition but also in the consideration of the issue. In fact, the authorities are trying to clean up all the dishonests, take revenge on anyone who doesn't do the Bank's will, and someone else in the neighborhood is still unemployed, so it's all done. This vote is closely monitored by the world, because the Ombudsman's Institute should be as independent as possible, so don't play with it. And actually, I'd like to hear Mr. Ironman's position, which he often played.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u58	The word is given to the national deputy Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, every time I hear the word "political persecution" or "repression" about someone, I look at the virtue of this person. You know, I used to write about Mrs. Dennis personally, about how she was a crime figure when she was working on endoprothesis for disabled people at the time she headed the Ministry, then she was covered. Then, I'll tell you, now that she was assigned, we all read and listened to "The Wolf's Tiles," on which the plain text said that "the egg authorized to us." I'll remind you that this person not only does human rights, but she appoints members of the Procurator's Qualifications Commission, and they appoint judges who took the rights of motorists, judges who anointed "flush" judges. So if you'll excuse us, we have human rights to deal with people with a crystal reputation for which human rights are primarily human rights, not money making and political divisions. That is why we will uphold this decree. And I think we need to figure out if this person is actually doing rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, one more minute, Ironborn, for Irina Volodymyrna mentioned it as the right to a replica. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u61	I just want to remind everyone that the previous speaker does not represent the position of the Voice party, which probably represents the position of the President's Office. And I want to explain where this decision came from. Dear colleagues, there has been a lot of appeal to the facts, some of the elements mentioned in the data. No, it's very simple. Ms. Denisova found the courage to refer to the previous head of Parliament the appeal that the draft on pear on oligarchs should be sent to the Venice Commission. It was very displeasing to the President's Office, as it did to the position of many factions who supported the idea. And that's why the President's Office decided, through Parliament, to release Mrs. Denisov, which, by the way, is what the speakers are speaking frankly about on all airs. So it's a purely political story and, of course, Voice won't support this nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to accept, in general, the Committee's proposals, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of possible facts of violation by the Supreme Council for Human Rights of Ukraine (project registration number 6322). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready? Please vote. [[11:11:35]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. The next question is the draft Order on the change to the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 5893-18). Dear colleagues, can we vote on it or discuss it in accordance with the Rules? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. This question is being considered by a simplified procedure. Project registration number 5893-18. Please. The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy Boris Viktorovich, MP "Trust". Please. Coward Paul. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u63	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! In our eyes, respectable colleagues, hands, actions, and minds of every informed Ukrainian are being built by a successful pro-European Ukraine. And this gap, which not only you are here in the hall, but every well-known Ukrainian, has made its activity in recent years. This gap between Ukraine and Moscow will never be reversed. And of course, the Kremlin clearly realizes and realizes that the myth of the only nations is already completely disintegrated, that the Ukrainians have chosen the pro-European path. The Kremlin understands that the position of the Ukrainian people cannot be reversed. That is why the aggressor engages in this international blackmail. He's blackmailing the international community, he's trying to scare us and you Ukrainians. And it's already destroying our economy. However, the Kremlin will not succeed. So today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is calling on foreign parliaments to make this military blackmail by the aggressor unacceptable. We urge everyone in this room to support this appeal and by this vote to show that no military blackmail of Russia will ever deny the pro-European course, the pro-European vector of the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the word is given to Fedina Sofia Romanovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u65	Please pass the word to your colleague Arthur Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u66	Dear Ukrainians, will "European Solidarity" vote in favour of this draft decision? Absolutely not. Because there are no key laws that our nation needs today. You know, when we're talking today about a possible large-scale attack by an aggressor country, the key issue is not just the fact that it's attacking or not attacking, but how much we're willing to repel this attack by Russian invaders. And we need to understand that the key guarantee of our security, the key guarantee of the security of Ukrainians and all of our children is the Ukrainian army. Now I have a question. On the Conciliation Council, why did the Zelensky team pass Bill 6542 on the allocation of additional billions of dollars to the Ukrainian army? I'll give you one of the moments that the Defense Minister met today: the armies need money, the Ukrainian Armed Forces need money, and they openly told us today. That's why it's not about politics today -- it's about the security of the state today. And I urge everyone to unite, if necessary, let's rewrite this bill, let's go together from the leaders and leaders of all factions and groups to pass it. But today money should not be spent on stealing, but money should be spent on the army, and this is our first priority. This is what needs to be included in the agenda, not what you want to look at: the bees, with all due respect to them, and the casinos that stand in order today on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u67	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Golovo, I ask you to give the floor to the national MP, Shufritch Nestor Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u69	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, our faction will not vote in favour of this motion, because, frankly, there is nothing to vote for. Tell me, please, everyone is talking about one thing today: you need to remove the tension on the line of separation. Some say there will be war, others say there will be no war, today we have been convinced that there will be no war, in an interview they say what will happen. They're all confused. Foreign teachers run, diplomats run from the country, investors run, the economy stops. The solution to this problem is to adopt the decision that our faction is proposing today on the willingness to consider those bills that are envisaged by the set of measures for the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. If they see that Ukraine, as a state and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, understands the responsibility and ability to take the initiative to implement the Minsk Accords and establish peace in our country, the return of our citizens, then, believe me, the tension will fall on itself. We've been waiting for a year: they won't attack, they won't go tanks, they won't go tanks. It is a nightmare and a complete irresponsibility! And what happens at this time when the economy actually stops, the gas divisions, nine people -- nine people -- earn up to $500 million a month because we have a spot price that's in Europe that's become a market. The market price of gas in Europe is $370 today, that's 12,000 dollars for industry. And we're selling them for 50 or 60 thousand, and 60 percent of the product that we're selling is industrial. This is a responsibility and a real crime against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u71	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction "Golos", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, if very briefly, the Voice Party will not vote for this decision. If more literally, let's read what is so important that we include in the agenda after 38 days of rest of the Ukrainian Parliament. Maybe there are military laws? It's almost gone. And this is definitely not the order of the day. Are there any economic laws? They're not here either. Answers to calls are not. There's a law under the Coronavirus to allow an RNB to be adopted when we're quarantined. It's a great initiative, but it doesn't fight with the Constitution and logic. There are economic passport laws in this order of the day, but only half of them have forgotten the other half. By the way, your honorary colleagues, first of all, "ministers of the people," I would like to emphasize, in this order of the day, which you now want to vote on, is the inclusion in our consideration of all laws on dual citizenship. I'm sure you haven't talked about it yet. You don't have the only position here. You know, it seems to me that we have a little bit of a parliamentary break from reality: when in the daytime 128 laws this week and only two military men, when in the daytime, we're pushing back tax cuts for the gaming business, when the biggest problem of Ukrainian society right now is that we have to fight corrective spam. And these are the laws that put them in the order of the day. So let's reject this decision, Parliament won't block it, work won't stop us, let's listen to other committees. No laws have been passed here since the Committee on Tax Policy at all. And then we'll work together. And for this ridiculous Voice party, there's definitely no vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u73	The word is given to National Deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, faction of "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues, after this we will vote, please ask the national MPs to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u74	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, you've just come back from the region, you've just been talking to the voters. Can't we make an adequate agenda for the country? Guys, are we out of a pandemic? What about the COVID bill? Colleagues, territorial defenses, today need laws to improve legislation on this issue. Colleagues, the Ministry of Defense, where do we increase the budget for social protection for those people who protect us, who are standing in front of us? And such bills were proposed by the Fatherland. My colleagues, I'll tell you more, and where are the bills for teachers? We've had to recalculate the educational subsidy for a long time. The Fatherland has proposed a whole list of bills -- only three of you have put in order of the day. So we don't vote for inadequate order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. People's deputies please take their seats. And I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a whole draft regulation amending the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 5893-18). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:23:39]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next question. Let's see the factions. The next question is the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, governments and parliaments of foreign states and parliamentary assemblies of international organisations on the unacceptable military blackmail against Ukraine by the Russian Federation, which is aimed at preventing the European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations of Ukraine (registration number 6543). Dear colleagues, we must first hold a number of ballots in order to include the agenda. First, I propose to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day's session of the decree in question, draft Decision No. 6543. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:24:59]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the proposal to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session, which requires 226 votes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote. [[11:25:30.]] For 274 Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the proposal to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:25:55]] For 236 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! Your consideration is proposed for consideration by the draft Order on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the governments and parliaments of foreign states and the parliamentary assemblies of an international organization regarding the unacceptable military blackmail against Ukraine by the Russian Federation, which is aimed at preventing the European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations of Ukraine (registration No. 6543). There is nothing to justify the aggressive geopolitical ambitions of the Russian Federation, which, in violation of all international agreements, is trying to satisfy its imperial appetites in post-Radians, has become a real threat to the peaceful progressive democratic development of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and other countries of the former Soviet Union and the direct threat to Central-Eastern European countries throughout the world. The draft decree therefore proposes to endorse the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to recognize that the requirements of the Russian Federation for international partners regarding the inadmissibility of European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations of Ukraine are a violation of a range of international treaties and principles of international law. It is also urgent to send a letter of appeal to the United Nations, the European Parliament, governments and parliaments of foreign nations and parliamentary assemblies of international organizations. The measures proposed by the draft regulation will contribute to the consolidation of international legal efforts in order to prevent the expansion of aggressive actions by the Russian Federation against Ukraine and the whole of Central-Eastern Europe. Dear colleagues, I think this should be a serious call from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be heard in the world, because it is very important to talk about this and form a position. And I am grateful to all the representatives of the political factions and groups in Parliament who have almost unanimously signed this decree. Therefore, I ask you to support this decision, Your Honor. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the co-reporter, deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and International Cooperation to Marina Olegny Bardini, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, parliamentarians! Today we continue to choose the European future of our country. From Ukraine’s security, the security of Europe begins, and our international partners understand that. At the time of the Russian Federation's military aggression in the country of the eighth year, the temporary occupation of Crimea and parts of the territory in eastern Ukraine continues, and thousands of people are suffering from the consequences of this aggression, and the level of international support is becoming more and more convincing: it is the continuation and strengthening of sanctions, it is assistance in the security of our country. I want to stress that we want to achieve peace by diplomatic means, so we are talking about the ability of our country to defend ourselves. We continue to insist on the European and Euro-Atlantic future of our country, because it is our common choice, the choice of the Ukrainian people first. The Ukrainians' desire to be members of the European Union and NATO is reflected in our Constitution. Today, at a time when the Russian Federation is trying so hard to prevent the Euro-Atlantic aspirations of our country, I want to remind you that we are an independent, sovereign state that decides for ourselves where, in which alliances, alliances, and in our partnership with who we are. It is important that international partners share the same position. This was confirmed by the results of the January security summits. NATO has confirmed that it will not limit the right of States to join the Alliance, just as the United States has defended NATO's "open door" policy. Today, you and I, colleagues, are to stand together to protect the European future and to support this determination and appeal, which we unanimously supported on the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in, against, please, colleagues. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Yaremenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u82	Yaremenko Bogdan, please. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u83	Bogdan Yaremenko, political party "Serve of the People". Dear colleagues, first of all, we should thank the author, Ruslan Stefanchuk, for offering a clear and specific way in which Parliament can join today's defence of Ukraine. The legally balanced and literate text of the decree has a very simple and understandable canvas. The will of the Ukrainian people to decide for themselves who to be in union with is not an object of the trade. By choosing the Ukrainian people, we will fight legally, politically, diplomatically, economically. But if the will of the neighbouring state is to do so and there is a need, we will defend our choice with weapons in our hands. Those nations to which we refer and parliaments, we do not ask them to fight for us, we do not ask them to fight in our territory, we are able to defend ourselves. But if our friends and partners are willing to defend the principles of international law, are willing to defend the principle of free will of the people, in history and in the hearts of the Ukrainian people, those who will help us militarily, help us politically, or other pressure on Russia further, will remain friends in the hearts and in the history of our people. Colleagues, I ask you to vote and support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u84	Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. The word is given to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Ion's Maria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u85	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, in such difficult times of responsibility, we must be more honest than ever: honest before us, honest before society. Are we showing such honesty? No, it's not. Because 38 days of Parliament rested. Why doesn't the President call the UN Security Council? Why Zelensky has not yet signed a law allowing foreign troops to enter Ukraine, why the European Solidarity Initiative on non-negotiation of security issues and budget changes was blocked -- 50 billion for the military. Let's support the Ministry of Defense's leadership, because today they just agreed on the need to increase this funding. What's the order of the day? For you, it's a game business, Big Construction, tobacco treatment. For you, isn't it time to raise the salaries of the military? Is it not yet time to run factories that are now working for one or two days and to resuscitate the implementation of failed POPs? The army needs 50 billion today, and we have them because you found 11 billion on the Big Building last week. You don't have to fall in love with society, you have to make a clear plan of action, and you have to prepare for protection every minute. On our borders, a bloody Russian maniac is inadequate, so adequate guidance would have to work and grow, and we saw ingenuity and recklessness. Time to wake up. Society will be much calmer when it sees that the authorities are preparing the country for resistance rather than pretending not to see the fire. A humble government and a deaf parliament will play for the infantile president. It is therefore essential to strengthen parliamentary diplomacy: to prepare a plan of action, to go to all capitals, to invite them to Ukraine, to talk about preventive sanctions. And the President has to do the same thing. Work on the introduction of a constitutional standard that was established by President Dustenk on Euro-Atlantic integration. Let's wake up. Today, too, colleagues, much depends on you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u87	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Burmić Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u89	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u90	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! I'll tell you frankly, I, when I see such declarative decisions, I always look at the website of the Ukrainian State Statistics Service to see how it's in control of reality and what's happening to us in real life. We're with you today, yes, we're talking to individual organizations and so on, but we have, on the one hand, this is happening, and on the other hand, President Greensky, whom we've all been listening to here, went out to this rostrum and explained that he was speaking for direct talks with the Russian Federation. And then I ask a question. How does this correspond to the determination you are making today? How will this dialogue be carried out? This time. The other one. I'm always talking about the economy, and I'm looking at the data that we have today. For example, our exports to Russia increased by 24 percent this year, and imports increased by 31 percent, or a third, of imported goods. Bilateral circulation is over $8.5 billion. The coal sector, which we're very aware of: 62 percent of coal comes from the Russian Federation. It's the main external economic and one of the largest trading and economic partners in bilateral trade. Think about the issue of gas transit, oil transit through the "Friendship" oil pipeline, the recapitalisation of banks, the corresponding daughters in Ukraine, transfers of labour migrants. We have tremendous economic, political, and other relationships. So, in my opinion, back to what I was talking about today, not today, but in its own time, President Zelensky here, we need to move to direct negotiations with the Russian Federation: on a parliamentary scale, on a government scale, on the scale of the President. Then, from this point of view, we'll have effective communication, we'll deal with a number of issues that we have in a bilateral relationship. And you don't have to start a panic and plant it inside the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u91	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Konstankevitch Irina Miroslavni, the Party for the Future. Please. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u92	We thank Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk, Head of the Supreme Council, for taking the initiative to address the parliamentarians of foreign states and inter-parliamentary organizations. It is logical that the entire composition of Parliament, all factions and groups, except one faction, have made decisions regarding the inclusion in the agenda. And that says that the constitutional majority of Parliament is. And this suggests that Parliament is in fact determined to make appropriate statements about the growth of Russia's military potential near our borders. We remind ourselves that we have a very lively relationship right now along the line of the Ministry of Defence with European countries and Euro-Atlantics, along the line of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and probably a little bit missing, actually, this inter-parliamentary dialogue. But it should be borne in mind that this inter-parliamentary dialogue not only needs to grow, we should call on parliamentarians not only for Ukraine in terms of military potential, but also for the financial and economic stability that the state now lacks. Because if we have financial and economic stability in this difficult situation, I don't think any enemy is going to overpower us. Because any instability we have is directly proportional to the impact on the Ukrainian economy, in the Ukrainian industry, in the banking system, in our citizens' money, in the growth or outflow of foreign and domestic investment, in the growth of inflation processes and so on. And that's why we don't want to let that happen. And this is essentially the main goal of the Kremlin today -- to financially and economically desecrate and swallow our state. That's why I think Parliament is one of the main venues for this discussion and for consolidating efforts in this direction in Ukrainian society. We support the call initiated by Parliament's leadership and urge the entire Parliament to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u93	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. The word is given to Kostenku Roman Vasilovich. After that, Paul the Bakunec, followed by the national deputy of Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. Please, Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u94	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the Voice Party will support this decision in the first place, because we understand how important the support of our partners is now. It needs to be rebuilt, and we need to show once again that the Supreme Council is giving this call to the whole world to everyone to understand what aggression the Russian Federation is now leading against us. But what I want to say is that we need to systematically address security and defence issues, because when we talk about raising salaries for military personnel right now (and this is very important), we're forgetting about border guards, the National Guard, who are underfunded this year. Neither did their financing for development increase on the bracelet. The foreign service can't get up to 50,000 people, because there's no funding. Hence, it is important not to mention war on the threshold but then to systematically address all matters of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u95	The word is given to the national deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, then Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich, and then we go to the vote. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u96	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Today, by this decree, by this appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states, we call for our country's support in our long-standing aspirations. Because, dear Ukrainians, your parents, grandparents, struggled to live in a free democratic state, destroyed them, removed them from the land. And today, in a war with an aggressor, your neighbors are being destroyed, which is worse — brothers, parents, sons. And that's why we're asking international partners that we're free people, that Ukraine is independent, that we're a pro-European vector, and we're asking us to help protect our European democratic values, and to protect our land from the aggressor. We're not alone. We're strong.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u97	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Nemiri Grigori Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction, and then we move on to the vote, Your Honor's colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland Party is one of the co-authors of this decision and will vote for it. But I would like to remind everyone that during the past Parliament and this Parliament similar statements and regulations have been adopted by about forty. I also want to drop many people to the ground and look at this fact -- none of Ukraine's international partners today are ready to hand over their armed forces in the event of the worst scenario. So this means that we need not only to make choices but also to protect them. Yesterday, Julia Timoshenko officially asked President Zelensky to form a national unity government. The time has passed, we have not heard any answers. Today, from this rostrum, Fatherland has once again asked President Zelensky to create a government of national unity. Your word, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the governments and parliaments of foreign states and the parliamentary assemblies of international organizations regarding the unacceptable military blackmail against Ukraine by the Russian Federation, which is aimed at preventing the European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations of Ukraine (registration number 6543). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:44:24]] For 282 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the provisions on notarial and registration in the process of acquiring land rights (draft No. 6199). Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes, yes. Or maybe we should vote. Dear colleagues, let's start with, I propose, I propose that we consider this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:45:25]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, once again, are we going to discuss this issue? Let's do it, yeah. Then I invite the head of the Committee's subcommittee on Agriculture and Land Policy, Artem Sergiyovich Nagajevski. Please, Artem Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You have before you the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the provisions on notary and registration in the process of acquiring land rights (registration No. 6199). The purpose of the bill is to solve the problems that arise in the implementation of notarial and registration measures relating to the transfer of ownership to agricultural land. The procedure for acquiring ownership of agricultural land is now quite complex, since it provides for a notary inspection of the acquirer’s rights to the numerous requirements of the law. On the average, it takes about a week or two. This problem is particularly serious for buyers of small plots, for gardening and land for private farming located within populated areas. The increased costs that have to be borne by the parties to the treaties have created major inconveniences for them. In order to address this problem, the bill proposes to establish that the notary of the acquirer of the agricultural area does not acquire ownership of land for gardening up to 0.25 hectares, land for farming, located within the population of up to 2 hectares. The bill provides that the purchaser of such land in the exercise of the right to transfer ownership shall claim compliance with the requirements laid down by filing a notary of the relevant claim. The bill also proposes to improve, inter alia, the mechanism for refusing the exercise of the predominant right to purchase agricultural land. The main scientific and expert office makes a point to the bill. The Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, at its meeting on 15 December 21, reviewed the bill and considered it worthy of support, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. At the same time, the committee decided that it would be appropriate to prepare a bill for second reading to take into account the introduction of proposals and rights to correct clarifications, correct errors and contradictions in the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u101	And you're from the committee? Please give me two more minutes from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u102	As well as other structural parts of the bill or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading, with a view to systematically regulating the procedure for acquiring ownership of agricultural land and aligning those provisions with other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this issue, so please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Please give the floor to National Deputy Bragar Eugene Vadimovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u104	Eugenius Bragar, Servant of the People. Please pass the word to Mikola Solski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u105	Mikola Tarasovich Solski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, what is this law about? That's the law. Earth reform has been in place for more than half a year. During this time, the rules adopted by the Supreme Council have accumulated various issues that need correction. What kind of adjustment? First of all, land reform, when launched, gave many rights to notaries. And that's right, because they form property rights for real estate, including land. Volume. The information that is foreseen for land reform, which needs to be checked, is very important, it takes time and it makes a lot of arrangements. This was primarily the case for land that was small in volume, within the village of gardening, OSH, which had not previously been restricted by the moratorium and had also fallen under those restrictions. Thus, in some parts, from the standpoint of notaries and the parties to these relations, which are in practice implementing this law, there is a reference that is reflected in this law to simplify procedures, and in some parts, such as matters related to the dominant right, to refusal, to further formulation, it reinforces regulation, since it is necessary to abuse the prevention of various types of raids. I therefore ask you to support this bill as much as possible in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u107	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of "The Fatherland". Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u108	I ask you to pass the word to Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u109	Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u110	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you are all improving the market for the earth. Please take a look at the last farmer's press conference. How many farmers do they buy land? Colleagues, 3 percent. Three percent is unheard of for a European country where we have to form a farm system so that only 3 percent of farmers are able to buy land. For various reasons, colleagues, for various reasons, today they cannot even buy the land of permanent use that we have given them the right to ransom, for seven years, the non-working financial system, the corrupt local authorities. And for whom do we improve this? So I'll tell you, the Land Matrix Analyst World Agency, it clearly put Ukraine next to Papua New Guinea and Ethiopia, it made it clear that 30 percent of Ukrainian Blacklands are used by foreign corporations, and it's not by Ukrainian farmers, it's by Ukrainian peasants, it's by corporations that are making money today. There is another kind of agrarian policy. You and I are already seeing an unheard-of increase in prices, and we have begun to import flour from Turkey instead of using the Ukrainian Agrarian Fund and the forward purchases so that our breadmaking industry can keep the prices of bread and bread products. That's what the unthinkable market of the earth leads to, and you're perfecting it. Fatherland won't vote in favour of the bill and we want you to listen to farmers who say they can't participate in the market you're offering today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, no one minute 12. I'm calling it a 30-minute break. But at the same time, I'm informing you, dear colleagues, there's an art exhibition on the third floor, "Inspired Pinzel in the Year," which will last until January 28. I invite everyone to join the arts. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've got 11:59. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, you can see I've got 11:59. I've already announced a break, my friends. Let's do it, let's do it. I'm sorry, but the camera please check in, we're in the lobby at 11:59. I'm sorry. All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. I would like to remind you that we are in the process of considering Bill 6199, this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the provisions on notarial and registration actions in the process of acquiring land rights. We are now discussing this issue, the next Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Well, I understand the word "Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich." Yes or no? Please, Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u113	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u114	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, it's kind of a good legislative initiative, I guess. Question is, what's with the sanctions? Well, either you have Russia or sanctions. Sanctions on this. We have sanctions against smugglers for financing terrorism. Well, with smugglers you've already arranged, they've both lived and lived well, worn one way, now carried the other way. Politicians won't pay anyone. To accuse decent people of financing terrorism when there's nothing to finance. In fact, in January, if I'm not mistaken, 2015, the Supreme Council addressed the whole world to recognize the so-called DNR and LNR as terrorist organizations. The answer is zero. It's like in a famous movie, "And silence, only the dead stand with hair." Remember. So if the whole world doesn't recognize the so-called DNR and LNR as terrorist organizations, if there's no Ukrainian decision to come into force, there's a statement of appeal, all of it. Yes, there are separate court decisions where individual acts are recognized by acts of terrorism. They were in Kiev, they were assassination attacks, and that, by the way, was an attack on the 112th Canal, recognized as an act of terrorism. But these are acts of terrorism and must be held accountable by direct customers and performers. So-called DNR and LNR are not terrorist organizations. In another way, the Security Council of the United Nations would never have approved the Minsk Accords signed with the representatives of the so-called DNR, the LNR. So please, let us give a dialogue today for peace, not to complicate the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u116	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zabrodski Mikhail Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Mikhail Vitaliovich isn't here, is he? Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall because we are going to vote. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u117	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I want to say that, if you talk about this bill and without population, in principle, one of Mr. Solski's co-authors said everything to us. But what I'm saying is that our MP group, I'm reminding you that our MP group was against the market for land, the opening of the market for land, and we should wait for the Constitutional Court to decide. But even so, we realize that life is moving, and there are certain first results that need to be corrected in terms of opening up the Earth market. This is true of the simplification of the work of notaries, which has placed a considerable burden on the registration of land rights, such as the release of notaries from the obligation to carry out checks on potential buyers of agricultural assignments and so forth. Therefore, our parliamentary group supports the bill, but it insists only on the basis of it, which is further developed into second reading. Please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u118	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, after which we turn to voting and decision-making. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u119	Colleagues, the Voice Party has definitely stood up for the land market, and we support everything, and we think that's probably one of the only reforms that was created in this ninth call room. And I want to emphasize once again that this bill will, of course, make it easier for people to buy land, legal procedures, notarial procedures, and it's cheaper to buy. I am very grateful to colleagues from other political factions and groups who, without even voting for the land market, are now supporting this deregulation. We do exactly what we do first for our farmers, for people who want to either hand over land or buy it or do other legal actions. So in the first reading, we can definitely vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u120	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to make your decision. It's a really important piece of legislation, despite its kind of superficial technicality, it's extremely important to bring about a system of law, especially in the part of the registration by notaries of the relevant rights. So I ask the people's deputies to take their seats, and we move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to clarify the provisions on notarial and registration activities in the process of acquiring land rights (project 6199 registration number). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:40:55]] For 249 Decision taken. Show the factions, please, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill we have is 5490, this is the second reading. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the powers of higher specialized courts to deal with cases of administrative offences (project registration number 5490). Dear colleagues, is there anyone who will insist? Oh, we're already in, after him, come on, okay? Alexander Yuryevna, after which I'll announce, I'm sorry, because as long as I'm gone, yes. Is there anyone who will insist? Okay. Then I'd like to invite you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I heard. Please, the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Sergey Konstantinovich Ionushas, invite you to the rostrum. Yeah, then let's go straight. 1st Amendment, Bacon. Don't insist. 2nd Amendment, Bacon. Don't insist. 3rd, Germany. Don't insist. 4th, Mama. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Please 4 Amendments, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, we're essentially here not to do anything in manual or manual mode, but to do something about legislation. This law clearly limits the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, and to the part of article 17, part three, the judicial branch of power is based and formed from local courts, appeals courts, the Supreme Court, and in some categories specialized courts. We're putting and writing into this bill and we're saying that. And we point out in this bill, we mention circuits, districts in the city, city or city city courts. Well, there are no more circuit courts. Let's make changes in the basic, systematic way, and take into account my law, where it's already stated in the new Law on the Status of Judges and Courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u122	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u123	Committee position: this amendment is rejected. It is rejected by the fact that, in fact, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka pointed out with regard to the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, but changes to these legislative acts should be made by separate laws. That is why it is not proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences because it requires a change to the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. Therefore, renaming involves complex changes, and here they are undervalued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u124	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you, Gregory Mikolayovich? Okay. I'm putting to the vote the 4th Amendment of the People's MP Mamka. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote [[12:44:22]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 5, Cymbaluk. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u125	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, my rights apply to the list of courts concerning the circulation of this bill. I propose that article 213, paragraph 4, be completed after the words “appellate courts” are completed by the words “High Anti-Corruption Court”. In fact, the "Paternity" team supports this bill as a whole, but we have to say whether a judicial reform has ever taken place. Today, in local courts nearly 2,000 vacancies, citizens today do not have equal access to justice. New areas have been created, and the courts have remained by the very same breadth, the territory -- that's what we're going to say is that this bill is purely technical. It needs to be approved and continued to work on real judicial reform. Please fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u126	Thank you. The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u127	Committee position: rejected. This proposal is contrary to the provisions of part four of article 125 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part three of article 17 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. The system currently provides for the creation of two higher specialized courts – the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court and the Supreme Court of Intellectual Property. Therefore, it is inappropriate to limit the operation of article 213 to VACS alone. In general, we are grateful for the general support of this bill. Committee proposal: rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u128	Thank you. Are you insisting on putting it up? Don't insist. Thank you, Mikhailovich. 6th Amendment, Adventure. Don't insist. 7th, Germany. Don't insist. 8th, Mama. Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, 8th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, we all understand that there is a Code of Criminal Procedure besides the Administrative Code. That's how I can see as a lawyer, as a lawyer, that in the Criminal Procedure Code, local courts, and in the Administrative District. Do we have any change in criminal conduct and administrative conduct? I think we need to be systematic about this, and at least in these changes that we're making, we should call things our names: not circuits that don't exist by law, but local ones. The changes have already taken place, the law is already in force. Once again, it is only for one purpose: which court should be included in respect of the execution and the granting of powers, but according to the old standards, which are essentially contrary to other legislative acts. Well, in a way.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u130	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u131	The position of the committee: rejected, for the same reasons, because complex changes and changes are needed by a separate Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. With regard to this particular case, the local general courts are district courts that replace our common district courts. They are defined by Article 221 of the Law, not by Article 221 of the Law. Therefore, make changes to article 221.1 or to do so. is wrong. Committee position: rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u132	Grigory Mikolaiovich. Why don't we put it on? Let's be, yeah, okay. I'm putting to the vote the 8th Amendment of the People's MP Mamka. The committee suggests that it be rejected, 8 amendments. So please identify and vote. [[12:48:28]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next, 9th Amendment. Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u133	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in order to reform the judicial system in Ukraine, this issue needs to be addressed in a complex way. It's a reform of the law enforcement body, and then it's the courts, because these three structures work together for the final result. The judicial corps itself must gain independence and exercise self - control. We will mention that the judicial reform began in 2016. It looks pretty positive on paper, but it's not real yet. This is the Supreme Council of Justice. Let's see what's going on in the Higher Qualifications Commission: after a new reload, and the result we see, I've already mentioned, almost two thousand vacancies of judges. That's why I'm asking you not to put this on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u134	Thank you. Thank you, Mikhailovich. Let's not put it to a vote. Next, 10 amendments, Germany. Don't insist. 11th, Cimbaluk. Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u135	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. This amendment refers to the addition of part three: after the words “the higher body” add the words “and the ruling of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to the Appeals Chamber of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court”. Why, in general, did it happen that now the judges of the higher specialized courts, unlike the rest of the courts, have no authority to decide the issue of bringing the guilty persons to justice for contempt of court, violating the order of the court, etc.? Because in 2017, in the 185th part of the third KUPAP, the above-mentioned courts had not yet been created. And that's why this bill is purely technical. Please put him to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u136	Thank you, Mikhailovich. You don't insist on this amendment either. Thank you. We have two amendments that I understand do not insist on. This is the 12th and 13th by the National Deputy of Bakuntz. You don't insist, do you? Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Powers of Higher Specialized Courts on Administrative Offences (Project Registration Number 5490). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:52:12]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Dear colleagues, before moving on to the next question, came a statement from two factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Andriy Andriyovich, is invited to attend. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] "The Servant of the People" and "The Voice." As long as you're going, that's right. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you for a future when you're making statements, write down what factions. Because if you just sign a leader, you can't always decrypt the factions from. I thank you for your kind offer. Please, Andrew Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u137	Oh, my God, hello! Dear colleagues, we had no opportunity to say in the first part about the following: that we have an eighth year of war, and we do not see many urgent issues to be done right now. From the very beginning, I want to calm down, and so do my fellow veterans, that we, as veterans, will definitely go in the event of aggression to fight. It won't rust behind us. Unfortunately, as in 2014, the civilian population does not know what to do. Regrettably, higher authorities and local authorities cannot provide neither education nor access to infrastructure. That's why we have big problems here. I'd like to draw your attention to the following. We have registered Decree 6545 of the Supreme Council, and the request for it to vote where we apply to executive authorities, to local self-government authorities on a number of measures, where they are all detailed. But what else is important? That's what we're about to go into again on the issue of arms circulation and there's an important point about self-defense, this is the draft of Law 5708-1, an alternative that we consider to be non-alternative. The commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Valérie Zaležno, confirmed today that if the state of law-abiding citizens had the opportunity to have self-defense, this would be a very serious preventive measure with regard to the aggressor. Therefore, I ask you not to put in a long consultation box and to make a positive determination regarding the right of our fellow citizens to self-defence, including with weapons in their hands. We speak in a consolidated manner to avoid panic, of course, but we must be very responsible to our fellow citizens, not to think of them as not deserving of information, reliable information, and reminding them of the main rule of preparation for the worst scenario. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u138	Heroic glory! Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. This is draft registration number 6287, this is draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to encourage the development of Ukrainian bookkeeping and distribution, this is our first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Can I have your back, please? Please vote. [[12:56:39]] For 213 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Mikita Ruslanović Poturayev. Four minutes from the authors and the committee. I understand, Mikita Ruslanovich? Four minutes, Mikita Ruslanovich, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u139	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'll try to get into less time. Thus, the state of reading, bookkeeping and distribution in Ukraine is, without exaggeration, catastrophic and rapidly deteriorating: Only 8 percent of Ukrainians read books daily. A much more important factor is the lack of a culture of reading, the inability to obtain a book according to their needs, the inaccessibility of bookstores, and modern libraries. The book market in Ukraine is very small for a 40 million-dollar country. If a German buys an average of 5.5 books a year, a Pole of 2.5 books a year, in Ukraine it is only 0.57 percent of the book before the outbreak of the COVID pandemic, after which he fell even further. Sadly, during the pandemic, 343 publications and 48 bookstores were cut short. There are only 200 bookstores left for over 40 million countries. Colleagues, think about it, 200 bookstores all over the country. In 91st year, there were 3,000, 600 bookstores in Ukraine. Now in co-existence with Ukraine for the population and territory of France, 3,000 and 300 bookstores. State aid measures, tax benefits, public procurement, grants, and so forth have had only limited effect and have not led to the steady development of book - market infrastructure. The positive effect of the patriotic rise since the 14th year, the weakening of Russia's influence on Ukrainian publishing and bookstore networks, as well as the introduction in 2017 of an arbitrary order of import of books from Russia were exhausted in the 18th-19th year. During the last 2-3 years, there has been stagnation on the Ukrainian book market, which has changed since the introduction of quarantine since the 20th year. In order to stimulate the development of the Ukrainian book market as an important factor in humanitarian development and national security, Act No. 6287 proposes to amend Ukraine's laws on publishing, "On State support for the bookstore in Ukraine", by introducing a state subsidy to compensate for the eligible costs of renting, rental of immovable property used by the publishing entity as a specialized book shop. Subjects of a publishing business that meets the requirements set out in the bill will, inter alia, sell books in English and/or in the EU languages and in the languages of the indigenous peoples of Ukraine, using RROs in bookshops, receive a guaranteed right to a state grant to compensate for the eligible rent. The amount of the subsidy may not exceed the cost of the lease, nor may it be greater than 20 percent of the amount of income derived from the sale of books at the appropriate bookstore. Such a subsidy will be granted every quarter, starting in the first quarter of the 23rd year. It is also proposed to provide the citizens of Ukraine with natural assistance in the form of a certificate for the purchase of books for the amount specified by the bill, i.e. 0.3 the size of the subsistence minimum for working persons. The certificate will also be given when the birth certificate is received, as well as when the Ukrainian citizen, who has reached 14 years of age, receives a Ukrainian citizen's passport. The certificate can only be used for the purchase of books in public language by the publisher of publishing products that meet the requirements laid down in the bill. The issue of the certificate will take place on January 1st, 23rd. At its meeting on December 1, 21, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law registration number 6287 to be adopted on the basis of proposals made by the committee. In conclusion, my colleagues, I want to tell you that in the example of the thousands proposed by President Zelensky by the Supreme Council and the government, we have seen what a great demand for Ukrainians for a modern Ukrainian book. So let's make the terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u140	Thank you, Mikita Ruslanovich. You wanted to get into less -- it didn't work out, because when you talk about the book, you can talk about it forever. Thank you. Please take your place. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss this issue, isn't there? Please, let's write it down: two for, two for, two for. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Lunchenko Valeriyovich, MP "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u141	Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u142	Larissa Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u143	Respectable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, really, really need a bill that will help us to support the book production, because the book is a major product, a cultural product, and reading a book is a prerequisite for the formation of truly mature people and a developed society. Indeed, our reading situation today is disastrous. On average, the Ukrainian bought only 0.5 books before the pandemic, spending 60 dollars. And in fact, the Ukrainian book market has long needed a powerful boost to increase its size. In fact, 1,000 of them were vaccinated. It was the leader of the purchases that was the book. And we really need to contribute to the bookmaking, the distribution. It has already been said that about 80 million will be allocated to bookstores, rental stores, and about 400 million for certificates on birth certificates and 14-year-old passports. Of course, the Trust Group will support this bill. But I wanted to point out that today there is a thriving smuggling, a counterfeit reprint, a pirate content. And until this is over, I think that this bill, which needs huge costs, is not going to be effective, because today the counterfeit market has gone up tens of times compared to 2013, and that's about 8-12 million copies, and the amount of the shadow market is billions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u144	Thank you, Larissa Mikolayevna. Please welcome the National Deputy of Ukraine, Arjev Volodymir Igorovic, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u145	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u146	Vladimir Vjatrović, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, nations that do not read, have no future. States that do not pay due attention to the distribution and publication of books are doomed to be third - world nations. The fact that we are considering this bill today gives me great hope that this fate will happen to Ukraine. Russia’s destructive influence, quarantine restrictions, the backdrop of the contract mentioned earlier led to the collapse of the circulation of books and the massive closure of bookstores, which we left in ten less than in neighbouring Poland. But this bill, which has been tabled jointly by 64 deputies, virtually all factions and groups, gives us a chance not just to stop the disaster, but to create a powerful Ukrainian book market. The project foresees, firstly, compensation for rental costs for bookstores that will sell books in Ukrainian and work transparently. And secondly, giving out certificates for the purchase of books at the birth of a child and at the age of 14. The fact that every third bracelet is spent by Ukrainians on books makes it clear that we don't have a book. There's a demand. But it needs to be supported by the infrastructure of the national book market, its protection against Russian expansion. It is estimated that in two years the number of bookstores in Ukraine can double and in five or seven years it will increase fivefold. The volume of the book market will increase about three times, and the range will double. In Ukraine, buying and reading books in English will prevail. I sincerely believe that the support of the Ukrainian book will unite our session hall, and I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. I'm very happy that today we're adopting a bill aimed at protecting Ukrainian culture. I very much hope that soon we will be considering the same bills that will be aimed at strengthening those who defend Ukrainian culture, the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Let's vote on the changes to the budget. Let's give an extra 50 billion to strengthen Ukrainian defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u148	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give my word to my colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u150	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you for being able to express a kind of protest about the legislative initiative that will first divide our society. Nevertheless, and this is evidenced by recent polls, nearly half of Ukrainians speak and read Russian. And these limitations, which are provided for in this law, certainly do not promote unity in our society. But you know, I think it's pretty soon that what languages are going to be in the print language is going to go away, because printing plants are just going to shut down. Now the price of electricity is over 5 dollars per kilowatt, and the price of gas is 50 dollars per cube. Printers will just shut down. And what happens at this moment when we're sitting here with you? From 11 to 18 hours again, Belarus provides emergency assistance — 150 megawatts. That's what you "servants" are all about. Once again, our power station is not enough to provide our energy system. And who's helping us? This Lukashenko, whose authority does not acknowledge, but who said: I will help the Ukrainians. So, dear colleagues, I want to correct your mistake in Belarusian and say, "Father Lukashenko is a real president, thank you for your help. And please, let's thank you for helping our Belarusian neighbours. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u152	Nestor Ivanovich, I have deep respect for you, but I very much ask you and all the reporters to speak by law, I think this will be more interesting to all who are present in this room. And I think my father and I will take care of it there. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Tchaikovsky Ivan Adamovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, the Group "For the Future" will of course support this bill, because we are even co-authors of this legislative initiative. Because we believe that this bill not only corrects this critical situation, which has already been mentioned, is the reading crisis, the humanitarian crisis, the problems with printing, it's also a bill designed to model our future. What is it? The point is that the lack of books, unfortunately, leads to an intellectual and aesthetic crisis. And if Ukraine wants to have a future as a state, we need to raise children who read. Only those who can read will have a future for those who know how to generate knowledge. And so this is not just about protecting Ukrainian booksellers -- it's about protecting Ukraine. And the colleague rightly stressed that we need to protect Ukraine not only with weapons, we need to protect Ukraine with intelligence. That's why we support this bill. Let's ask everyone to vote in the first reading in favour. And to those colleagues who are talking about the separation of Ukraine, I suggest you read the pamphlets of Mikola Wave, especially where it is said that we should be away from Moscow and from the Russian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, who else would like to speak? Please, Ivanovich Krulko. After that, I see Sosun Inna Romanovna. Is anyone else going to perform? If no one else speaks, then we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u155	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Among the co-authors of this bill are the representatives of the Fatherland faction, Olena Condratuk, Alexander Abdullin, and I am also co-author of this bill. I believe that this is the kind of bill that unites the session hall, and they show who actually supports the development of the Ukrainian language rather than the words. This bill, its main purpose, is to grant a state subsidy to publishers who have specialized shops, specialized bookstores, so that they can get assistance from the state and additional opportunities for trade in books distributed and issued in Ukrainian. In addition, the bill provides a special opportunity for Ukrainians to spend exclusively on the purchase of books. Such bills will increase the opportunity for publishers, increase the number of people to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u156	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u157	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, I am, of course, very pleased to hear the unity of the hall around this bill. Because we understand very well that the books we read together make us a single, united, successful, creative nation, because books help us think, experience together, books help to overcome panic and anxiety, and books help to overcome the enemy, including the one that threatens Ukraine the most right now, Vladimir Putin. We need to be as supportive of the Ukrainian Bookkeeping as possible not only here in the Parliamentary Hall. I would now like to turn to the government to finally adopt a reading strategy, a strategy that has long been developed, but a year cannot be accepted in various ministries and offices. In order to develop reading skills, Ukrainians need to adopt not only laws but also to work together in government. And once again, I urge you to adopt a reading strategy to complement all the initiatives that Parliament is about to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u158	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. And I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to encourage the development of Ukrainian bookkeeping and distribution (project registration number 6287). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:14:37]] For 277 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Is there a need to cut time, colleagues? It is, isn't it? Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I make a proposal: in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (register No. 6287). This is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine to encourage the development of Ukrainian bookkeeping and distribution. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:15:37]] For 278 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next bill 6528 is a draft of the Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of documentation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this bill needs a few votes, so I'm going to have to get ready for the vote right away. I'm proposing the inclusion of Bill 6528 in the agenda. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:16:45]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please. I propose to define the bill as urgent and to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by the day of the plenary session on 25 January 2022. Dear colleagues, please support us, because this is an urgent matter for the Council. Please vote. [[13:17:26]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session on this bill. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:17:55]] For 237 Decision taken. And one more procedural vote: I propose that we address this issue in a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:18:23]] For 225 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether or not. There is a need to discuss. Let's get a bill here. There is a need to discuss. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u159	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, your point is a very simple draft of the Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act "On Making Changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" to improve the electronic form of documentation. It is well known that the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call was preparing a long time to use the only automated documenting system in the Supreme Council as the only means of processing all documents created in Parliament, and so far an investigative operation of the specified automated system has been carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. At the same time, I ask you to pay attention to two things. First of all, a working group has been set up to prepare comprehensive legislative proposals to amend the laws of Ukraine in the field of parliamentary law, which takes care of systemic changes to the Rules. And the second. At this very time when we're talking to you, we've had a meeting with our forces, and we've agreed so far that for this period we leave electronic form as the only form of conduct of the Supreme Council's activities, well, it's still premature. So it's an extremely simple proposal: to postpone for one year the introduction of electronic form as a single form so that this year we have the opportunity to work the way we did -- parallelly: when there is an electronic form of documentation and paper form of documentation. Dear colleagues, every bill is designed to create conditions for the full implementation of the sole automated system of work with the documents, so in view of the above, I ask the honourable deputies to support this bill. It was introduced, by the way, by the entire presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I also ask you to consider this and to support us in ensuring that we have adequate safeguards against all things related to the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u161	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. The committee’s co-report invites the chairman of the Committee on Rules and Deputies of Ethics, Sergey Vitaliyovich Calchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u162	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee at its meeting considered a draft law (registration 6528) amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council on the Improvement of Electronic Documents, introduced by the People's Deputies Stefanchuk, Kornyenk, Kondratjuk, proposing in section II, paragraph 3, “To the Final and Transitional Positions”, replace the word “seventh session” with the words “ninth session”. The Regulatory Committee stressed that, following the practice of applying the new Rules on the introduction of the electronic form of the documentary process, the deferral of the complete transition to such a form of documentation was appropriate. By the way, and scientific expertise, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion on the Bill of Registration, 6528, also notes that the Administration has no objection to its acceptance, because the prescriptions of this project are of a purely technical nature and do not call attention to its substance, its content. In summary, our committee adopted the conclusion of the draft Law (registration number 6528) and recommends to the Supreme Council, in the order of part four of article 102, paragraph 1, of part one, part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, on the basis of the first reading of the bill, to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u163	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, since we said there was a need to discuss, please, honourable factions and groups, to sign up for two-in-a-two-in. Please. The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP Party for the Future. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u164	Well, as you recall, colleagues, at the dawn of this call to parliament, we accepted, we took the word "digitalization" as a flag, we created a problem in an equal place, now every year we heroically overcome this problem, such a little proud peer. So when we made a progressive decision in our time to put our Parliament's work into electronic format, we certainly didn't count that part of the documentation can't immediately be translated 100 percent into a digit for natural reasons. And there's a risk of loss of sensitive information, the personal information that the Personnel Management is working with, the accounting office. Nobody thought about it because we all got caught up in the word "digitalization." Therefore, there were no rational proposals, including our parliamentary group "For the Future", to see the possibility of parallel paper and electronic documentation in a range of spheres of business of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And because of this decision, every year we're going to have to postpone total dijitalization, and once again we're doing it today. That is why we call on the Ukrainian Parliament in this difficult time for Ukraine the next time we decide to leave the parallel existence of two forms of documentation to allow for the full digitisation of our work. Let's not embarrass ourselves and leave this stupid thing alone, and work quietly in parallel: both paper and numbers. And let's not make trouble in the same place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u165	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u166	Please pass the word to Frolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u167	Please, National Deputy Frolo Pavlov Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, we have been in Parliament for almost two years in electronic paperwork. Thanks to the timely digitalization of Parliament's work, you and I have met with the world cadaver pandemic in arms and have been able to save our jobs in order to adopt important laws. Today in the Supreme Council, more than 90 percent of the processes take place in electronic form. You know that the office no longer accepts paper references, letters, corrections. They still have to be given as scanned electronic copies. The Supreme Council’s apparatus received a certificate of conformity from the State Department that the comprehensive information protection system of the only automated documentation system in Parliament provides an adequate level of protection. In a week, from February 1st, the electronic form of documents should begin as the only means of document processing. Instead, we now have a complex situation, including in Ukraine’s outer borders, which requires us to be all - armed and have an answer. to have the Parliament's guaranteed efficiency in case of any developments. In addition, the work of the Supreme Council is now taking place under special conditions caused by the spread of coronary disease, which are significantly different from the ordinary work of the legislative body. In such a situation, Bill 6528 proposes to continue for a year the possibility of a very limited number of paper documents, which I recall now amount to only a few percent. With the situation stabilized, we will be happy to offer you a legislative initiative to bring Parliament fully into digital format. Please be supportive. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u169	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Burmić Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u170	Thank you. Please give Nestor Ivanovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u171	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u172	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, what's called dojitalized! Please tell me, a year ago, we moved this law into effect for a year. Rates paid have passed, boards have been issued to everyone. Tell me who didn't get the list. Who couldn't handle it? Why do we carry on for a year? And this is certainly the most important question to consider right now. That's question number one! Five weeks of rest or four and a half weeks of struggle, and this needs to be considered. Dear colleagues! I insist that we begin to consider the bills provided for in the Minsk Accords. By the way, I can't help but mention 2015, which is where the vice president of the United States, Joe Biden, was speaking at the time. And he appealed to the national deputies of Ukraine to vote on those laws that were provided for in the Minsk covenants. And I want to say thank you, Mr. President, for your position, which you declared in 2015 from here, from this place.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u173	Nestor Ivanovich, if you please, stately, not everyone understands English.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u174	Mr. Ruslan, do you mind if I thank the American President in his own language? The hall supports, by the way, Mr. Head. I realize that it's not the father, that is, when I spoke Belarusian, half the hall blew up here, but when I thank you in English, the tongues were shared.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u175	Nestor Ivanovich, thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, thank you very much, you're just demonstrating how much polyglot you are, for a great example, your English is just amazing. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, it's brilliant. Dear colleagues, it's very nice that the people's deputies are demonstrating such rulership in brilliant foreign languages, but let's all be in our Parliament speaking in Ukrainian, I think it's closer to each of us and let the world join in learning our language. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I'd like to invite you, I understand, instead of the national MP Makarov there will be Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, what are we voting for? Two years ago, Parliament made the right decision to go into electronic form, and we all voted with you, most of you, and for the third time we've been translating this implementation for different reasons: we didn't get it, we didn't buy it, we're talking about security now. And tell me, please, I remember very well in the fall of 2021, Mr. Kornienka, but you told us about the dedication, the smart-parliament. Are we going to continue to listen to this, or are we going to end the reforms that we've passed on to the President's Office? That's why, my fellow Members, I personally believe that this bill should be rejected and I will not vote for it. But with great respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus, which I'm sure is not my fault that some reformers have not started their reforms promised, but have just taken office, we probably have some time to implement electronic circulation, hopefully the last. Having spoken to the head of parliament, I also understand the risks that the Ukrainian Parliament faces, as well as the whole of Ukraine, in working in the course of military aggression. That's why we're not going to block the Voice Party from adopting this bill either as a basis or as a whole, but we certainly don't have to vote for it. And with another 30 seconds of time, I want to say that, honourable colleagues, let's finally, if we promise something from this great rostrum, then put it into practice, because unfortunately, for now, from reforming Parliament, we see only, once again, a change in the coulaires, which very often interferes with both journalists and other national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, please, who else? Yes. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Excuse me. Aresonk's National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u178	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, our MP group "Trust" will vote and support the extension of a certain period of exclusive electronic form. But I want, like part of my colleagues, to point out that when we're making any innovations, we need to think everything through. Perhaps sometimes it is not necessary to make decisions in such a hurry, to show that we are very modern, very cool, perhaps even in front of some other, there, so parliaments. We need to prepare carefully so that we do not have any setbacks. But given the situation, of course, this bill needs to be adopted, so the trust MP group will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u179	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, I will now give the floor to Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich, and after that we will vote. People's deputies please take their seats. I give the word to Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u180	Thank you very much, Ruslan Alexiyovich. My fellow Members, it seems to me that this is a great shame for Parliament, when every year the entire Presidium is forced to submit an appropriate bill, the Head of the Supreme Council is forced to go to the rostrum and explain why we still need that initiative, which has not been introduced and implemented, to postpone as one that is not thought out and is not. When I accepted her, I warned her that it was impossible to do so for six months. And it will only have to be done when Ukraine is in full information security at all. Maybe never. And the last cyber attacks just proved us right. You don't have your certificates here for security because these certificates had all those organs that fell in one day. This has no meaning for those who are intent on continuing cyber attacks on Ukraine. You were talking about a working group, Mr. Head. Unfortunately, this working group is not thinking about improving the rules, but about limiting our opposition to its rights in the session room. If she really thinks about it, let's sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. I want to remind you that there is a proposal to accept it as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. And I understand that this proposal is accepted, but I'm going to put it in a row. Thank you. Dear colleagues, with your permission, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending section III, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of documentation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (project registration number 6528). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:36:00]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of documentation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (project registration number 6528). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:36:40]] For 233 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Show me the factions, please. Let's move on. The next question is the second reading, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the taxation of goods moving (moved) in international postal and express mail). Bill 4278. I invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of the Owl Alexander Georgievic to report on this bill. Please, Alexander Georgievich. Dear colleagues, are there those who will insist on their amendments? [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you going to insist on everyone? On one. On two. Is this your amendment or will you be? For confirmation. Okay. We'll end up with confirmation. Are you going to get confirmation, or will you insist on your own? Yours. What's the number? 15th. Now, one second, me. 15th and 41st. Now, one second, I'll find them. Please give the floor to the Black People's Deputy. Amendment number 15. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, Victor Black, "The Opposition Platform for Life." With regard to the repair. I think it's extremely important in this difficult time to reduce the tax burden on people and allow them to buy goods abroad without paying too much. And that's the whole point of my correction. An increase in the minimum cost of non-taxable goods will increase the availability of foreign consumer goods to the country's broad population, thus increasing the real purchasing power of the population of Ukraine as a whole. So I propose to increase the tax base, which is part of their customs value or part of their total invoice value, which exceeds the equivalent of 200 euros, taking into account the duty payable. And if it's easier, today, when a person orders goods from abroad, he pays taxes if the value of the goods exceeds 100 euros. I'm offering 200 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u183	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u184	The proposed changes in the part of the increase in the untaxed threshold are not supported by the Ministry of Finance due to significant budget losses. The amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard the position of the author of the amendment, the position of the committee. So, with your permission, I'm voting on the 15th amendment of the Black People's Deputies. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:52]] For 116 The decision is not taken. And you said 41st. Now, one second. 41st National Deputy Black, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw attention to the essence of this bill and actually to the substance of the amendments. The thing is that Ukrainians today have the ability to order goods from abroad, for example, this is AliExpress, such as Play Market, which can be used to reduce family budget burdens. I want to remind you that a few years ago, this cost 300 euros. That is, if a person ordered more than 300 euros, he paid an extra tax. Today, 150 euros are offered. I've offered 200 euros so that a person can buy at least a budget smartphone abroad without paying too much. So I ask you to vote for my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u187	Thank you. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u188	For the same reason, the appeal was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 41st Amendment of the Black People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee, you've heard the arguments. So please identify and vote. [[13:41:25]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, who will insist on their amendments? It's none of yours. Thank you. Then I invite you, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, he wants to make an amendment, 7th, yes. Please turn on the railroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, Amendment 7, 8, I'm not going to put it on confirmation, they're partially accounted for, I just want to explain the situation. This bill is really very positive. Anyone who orders goods online from abroad is now benefiting from this bill. Because, first of all, we're actually increasing our limits to 150 euros, second of all, we're simplifying these shipments a lot. And for that, I thank the committee, the colleagues who worked on this bill. I just want to explain why this bill took so long. In this law there is such a wonderful amendment, there was 56, one famous coalition representative, and now it will not be mentioned, which involved the reduction of taxes on tobacco. And thank you to the members of the committee who then reviewed this decision. So I would very much like us not to go back to the practice of openly lobbying into positive bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u191	You're not going to insist and put them on confirmation, you're just. I got it. Dear colleagues, we passed this bill. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for taxes on goods moving (moving) in international postal and express messages) (project registration number 4278). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:43:37]] For 274 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next legislative initiative is also a second reading. Bill No. 4279, is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for taxation by customs payments of goods moved (moved) in international postal shipments, international express shipments and the order of their declaration). The reporter's at the rostrum. Dear colleagues, who will insist on their amendments? First of all, it's yours. Nobody insists, right? The only thing I have is the address of national MP Marian Zablocký, who wants to make a 35th amendment for confirmation. Do I get it right? Please, National Deputy Zablocksky Marian.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, despite the positive bills, there is an amendment that nullifies the whole positive effect of this law on people, it de facto prohibits postage and makes it very difficult to buy online at all. It tells us that parcels can be passed from hand to hand and only if the person delivering them removes a copy of the passport and the recipient’s code. There's no such thing in any country, and this applies in general to shipments of any value, even 1 euro. This amendment is actually quite a long time ago, it's been strongly supported by those who sell retail goods, and they don't really like that Ukrainians, especially Ukrainians, order more online. The post office and the New Mail will be absolutely against this, unfortunately they will be forced to dismantle all postmen when they receive international shipments, and this will be taken rather negatively by our citizens. On the committee, we've taken this paper separately, given its controversiality, so I'm asking you to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u193	Thank you. So, colleagues, this is about 35 amendments. I give the floor to the committee for reasons, and then we have to make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u194	I agree with my colleague that this was a violent committee discussion, and there was no clear solution, so I propose that we look into the halls of this case. The committee supported this amendment. 35th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u195	35 revisions. Dear colleagues, I bet 35 amendments, the authorship of the people's deputy Getmantsev, are counted by the committee. At the same time, the Zablocki National MP, he's asking for this amendment to be confirmed. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[13:46:51]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Please, the people's deputy of the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, since we did not support this amendment in order for the law to be adopted and to fulfill the goals we set for it, it is necessary to place it on confirmation and support 36 amendments. It is the same text, only without taking into account the identity of the recipient of the messages. Very important, it's a very important amendment, if we don't support it now, then the law won't make sense. There's no I.D. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I understand the situation, 35th was just ruined. At the same time, the national deputy of the Hetmans, he asks that his amendment 36 be taken into account, which is identical, but without questions that caused contradictions in the hall. Yeah? Dear colleagues, 36th, I said. 36th, the people's deputy of the Gethmans. 36th, the Gethmans. [[B in m in s a l in]] 36th. 36. One second, colleagues, please don't break up, because we're about to vote. Dear colleagues, the 36th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Getmancev. I don't think there's any objection, otherwise the law, I mean, it'll make no sense. So, dear colleagues, I'm betting on the 36th amendment of the national deputy of Getmantsev. Please vote, Your Honor, please vote. [[13:49:05]] For 225 Dear colleagues, that's what we're always talking about, and it's still desirable to be in the workplace during work hours, because it's our job to adopt the laws that are there. I'm moving on. So I'm going to make a proposal and that's expressed on the committee, if it's not supported further, we're going to go to the second again. Look. Dear colleagues, then there's such an offer, I'm making a proposal to the committee, if it's not supported, we'll send it back to the second, and the committee will accept the amendment that should be so that we don't play here and do the work of the committee. Do you have a deal? Dear colleagues, I therefore propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for taxation by customs payments of goods moving (moved) in international postal shipments, international express shipments and the order of their declaration) (project registration number 4279). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:50:53]] For 237 Decision taken. You can do that. Let's see the factions. You can do that. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, the next bill is a bill, second reading too, registration number 6084. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to establish responsibility for counterfeiting documents relating to preventive vaccination. I invite the head of the Committee on the Protection of the Law of Ionushas Sergey Kostinović to the rostrum. Please, Sergey Konstantinovich. Dear colleagues, someone will insist. Then let's go by the numbers. Do I get it right? Come on, 2 amendment, People's Deputy Mamka. Please. And the first one, and it's partially accounted for, one second. I apologize, Grigory Mikolaiovich, 1 amendment, I have a letter from the people’s representative of Bakumov asking for three minutes instead of his five amendments and then asking for another three minutes instead of his amendments. Do I understand that, Alexander Sergiyovich? Please give the people's deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u198	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I rarely speak to you about amendments, but I want to prove to you the truth about this. This bill is proposed by the Ministry of Health, yet I am a person who is committed to the fact that the bill is to be prepared by a professional, at least by Minust, the Office of Henprocuror or the National Police, who uses these laws. This is about the Criminal Code, and we're adding a separate pattern of crime to the counterfeiting of certificates, coded certificates and their use. Last year we've already registered over 2,000 criminal conducts, mostly being investigated by the National Police. Ukraine’s criminal code for today is fully coping with the challenges facing society. We have article 358 — falsification of documents, 1,604 or more than 90 percent of the offences for 2021. There is an article 190: fraud; 362 -- unauthorized actions with information entered into automated systems; 361 -- unauthorized interference with computers. I just want to tell you that criminal legislation is now fully addressing the challenges, there is no need to adopt these changes to the Criminal Code. Now it's the main thing. The Supreme Court points out that the bill should be rejected, since the proposed changes are cassualistic and overload the Criminal Code. The Ministry of Internal Affairs does not support the bill. He concludes that the topic is relevant, but he does not support the bill. The National Police make a number of comments to the bill. Dear colleagues from the Anti-Corruption Committee, attention: The National Anti-Corruption Agency notes that the establishment of the regulations proposed by the draft law is unwarranted and unwarranted, and provides grounds for abuse, which enables us to identify the existence of corruption in the draft law. Moreover, the draft law does not conform to the principle of legal certainty, which is part of the rule of law principle and is aimed at creating corruptive norms. On the basis of the above, NAZK has emphatically expressed the inadmissibility of adopting the bill. As a member of the profiling committee, I have no positive conclusion on this bill. I urge you all to approach this issue now in a responsible and non-supporting manner. In my second report, I'm going to be given three minutes after I'm done, and I'm going to say a couple of theses that are going to justify this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u199	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, 2nd. We agreed that you didn't insist on voting. Yes, Alexander Sergiyovich? Thank you. 2nd Amendment, Mother Grigori Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u200	Give me four minutes after all the repairs, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u201	Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich, instead of these amendments, four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u202	Dear national deputies, well, this is a direct example of what it's best not to do and leave as it is. Normalization, really, the previous author said, and I'm paying attention, so let's start with the name. The title of the article speaks of itself: the counterfeiting or use, or the sale of COVID certificates. What do I mean, what difference does it make now? The fictitious responsibility provided for in article 358, 366 exists, according to which the National Police report to the ERDF, investigates, and notice that cases are referred to the court, and from this article there is absolutely no difference that it is an electronic document, that those documents provided for by other articles have ended, there is no difference. Even with this bill, I tried to clarify and make the state a much better mechanism. This procedure during quarantine or emergency status is recognized as a forgery of particularly important documents. And here international partners say that many of the COVID certificates are forged, we would know that there are particularly important documents, that in infectious diseases, infectious vaccinations there is a procedure that is determined by Kabmin, the Cabin makes decisions, and there is a responsibility specialized in this article. But unfortunately, neither the committee nor the offices, nobody listened to my initiative to level things up and make for the Criminal Code, for legislation, the best new mechanism that the state could use. But the key point is to input information into the informational medical base that is currently in operation and emerging, through this base, COVID certifications are coming to our famous, secure, secure, action. And you realize that there's information in the database that's not even called information at all? And if this information is not provided for by law and base, there is a discrepancy, then the law will not work. Nevertheless, attention should be paid to article 362, to which, for the time being, the latest publications have been about the detention of people, persons, of suspicion. Well, it exists, all of them are law enforcement. Well, should politics rule the law? Someone woke up, he thought of making changes, calling them fat, which have completely identical, objective sides that are prescribed, for the time being, the responsibility for which they already exist, just to call their name. Then you get the corruption component, whatever you want, and you qualify, because cod certification is just the first stage. Tomorrow someone in Kabmin will come up with a duty of flu vaccination for which we will receive certificates. This comes under the responsibility of this article? Well, no one understands. Then additional changes are needed. And I proposed to my decision and my changes to this law, after all, to authorize the Cabinet of Ministers into a unified article that wouldn't go into that chapter in a strong way. Well, you can imagine, the counterfeiting of the certificate is in the chapter on powerful substances! Well, it's not like that. I understand that everything can be done with this Council, but not in time for such revolutionary and worthless actions as will be foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u203	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Let's move on. 4 repairs, Demchenko. Don't insist. My mother took off her repairs. Let's move on. 11th, Krulko. Don't insist. 13th, Yvchenko. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, we could form a day's order with more quality laws. Just listen to your colleagues sometimes. You have just received a clear indication from Deputy Bakumov that we have article 358. We have more than 2,000 cases today, 505,000 from the start of quarantine. 19 people were detained directly at the border crossing at New Year’s festivals. We have all the legislation to punish the relevant categories of people who fake vaccination passports under the Criminal Code. But today, we have challenges, colleagues, threats, challenges to the guiding issues facing society today. We have FOP today, colleagues, standing by. They face the challenges of survival at all. These are the questions that need to be put in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u205	Do you insist on voting on your amendment? Oh, no? Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich. Let's move on. 15th. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u206	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, as we speak. Terribly when changes to the Criminal Code are made, not by lawyers, but by profanists from the Ministry of Health who have already defeated COVID, who have already undertaken reforms that have already shut down hospitals to work. And they decided to amend the Criminal Code. In fact, there is now an article on document counterfeiting. Statistics have already been called: 2,000, 100 criminal conducts last year. Most of them are fines, but there is also a way of taking responsibility for the actual penalties. It's true, with a delay. What else is needed? Who does this bill represent?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u207	Please take the seat of the committee. You insist, by the way, Michael Mikhailovich? Don't insist. Then you don't have to. 17th. Raducci. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Bakumov, separately. 19th, Krulko. Are you insisting? Please, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, 19th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u208	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm absolutely in solidarity with my colleagues at the Fatherland faction, who think it's absolutely fair that instead of increasing criminal responsibility, we have to work among Ukrainians to tell them the truth about the need for vaccination, the need to use personal protection, that every person who needs help can get adequate medical care in hospitals. We have to give extra money to make the special budget fund work to overcome the COVID that initiated the "Paternity" in its own time, but which was not created at all this year. These things need to be done to fight and fight COVID effectively. We'll vote for it, we'll vote for it for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u209	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. You don't insist, do you? Thank you. Next, 21st, Cymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u210	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Continued. Every problem in the country has a name, a name, a father, and it is very important that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because the Cabinet of Ministers is the initiator of this bill, has held at least one meeting on this subject -- who is preparing such bills? What kind of propane did he write in an explanatory note that the current Ukrainian Criminal Code does not have criminal responsibility for falsifying documents relating to vaccination? Likely, not everyone on their own has left the government. Dear colleagues, this is unacceptable when, at a time when tens of thousands of fopiers under the Supreme Council require the inclusion of daily bills in order to work and pay taxes, you include in the agenda such a bill, where there is legal nihilism and homage.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u211	You don't insist, Mikhail Mikhailovich, do you? Thank you. Let's move on. Chess. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Yeah, I can see that. Please. Reverend, 25th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u212	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Dear colleagues, we are considering an extremely important bill, because forging documents is a deliberate, socially dangerous crime. In order to avoid cases of criminal responsibility, however, the State must provide more information on vaccination, its safety and necessity, and its criminal responsibility for counterfeiting certificates. Until the necessary explanatory work is done, such phenomena will exist. Then it is necessary to impose appropriate criminal responsibility for deliberate counterfeiting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u213	You don't insist on voting, do you? Don't you insist? Thank you. Yeah, go on, 27th, Cymbaluk. Are you insisting? Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u214	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I am surprised that the committee, which consists of the majority of lawyers, some of whom I know personally and respect as lawyers, could miss such a nonsense of law. Moreover, you see what this project is proposing is to increase the administrative responsibility of those who use a fake document, even if they don't know about it, from 17 to 34 thousand or the limits of will to two years. Dear colleagues, vaccination is the thing that it has taken on itself, its conduct, its authority, and such a responsibility to establish – use the articles of the Criminal Code that are already in force. We're going to vote for this nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u215	Yeah, 28th, Kulinich. Don't insist. Next. Next 37th, Cimbaluk. Are you insisting, Mikhail Mikhailovich? Don't insist. Thank you. 43rd, Cimbaluk. You don't insist, do you? Thank you. Come on, Bakumov. 49th, Raducci. Don't insist. Thank you. 51st, Krulko. Don't insist. 53rd, Cimbaluk. Please, Cimbaluk, 53 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u216	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Well, I'm hoping there's no vote in the session room for this bill. But I would like to address the Cabinet of Ministers. Because I can see there's someone there. Who will be able to present this bill from the Cabinet of Ministers? Explain the reasons and the need for his approval? This is very important. Because sessional, plenary sessions are observed by Ukrainian citizens, many of whom do not have the resources to treat COVID. We can see there's been another wave today. That there's already one area in the red zone and another. Today, Ukrainian citizens wonder if there is enough medicine and whether it will be at the expense of the state budget approved by the Supreme Council last year. This concerns Ukrainian citizens, not criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u217	Thank you. You don't insist on voting. 64th, Reverend. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next. Raducci. Don't insist. 65th, Leschenka. Don't insist. 68th, Raducci. Don't insist. 74th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 76th, Demchenko. Don't insist. 77th, Bakumov. Three more minutes, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u218	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, once again, I address you and say that the task of the Criminal Code is to protect the rights and freedoms of both the individual and the citizen, as well as to prevent criminal offences. And with these tasks, the Criminal Code is being fully addressed today on the subject that we are currently discussing with you. Hundreds of indictments at various crime scenes are being brought before the courts of Ukraine. And so these changes are irrelevant, and now we're spending our taxpayers' money just to talk to you. The second is about the committee. I would like to draw your attention to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Supreme Council's apparatus, that the table for the second reading, which was reviewed by the committee at the second session, was not generally approved for the second reading, and I would like to look into it, and I would like to look into it. Because the committee had returned to its consideration, however, by its new decision, it had not approved the table until the second reading. Dear colleagues, there are many lawyers in this room, deserving and undeserving, associate professors, professors, lawyers, masters, bachelors. I'm addressing all of you, don't do things that balance our criminal law, that will create conditions tomorrow for the National Police and the Attorney General's Office not to know what to do or how to qualify them for the actions of the offenders. Which is why I would like to call for only one way into this bill to reject it. However, I will make a small novel and ask the chairman to put to the vote my number 77, which is the meaning: this law does not take effect because criminal responsibility for the actions already established by the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u219	I give my word, answer to the committee, please. And then you're going to demand the 77th vote, so I understand, Alexander Sergiyovich? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u220	This correction is rejected. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there has never been such a situation in the world as there is now a pandemic. And that's why it's special to a total of 358 (forgery of documents) that the consequences of the pandemic are, unfortunately, still going on. And that's why this rule provides for another responsibility for falsifying SOVID certificates, because we look not only inside the country, but beyond it very bad when we don't have a specific responsibility for this socially dangerous operation. So fictitious documents for registration of FOP are not fake documents for COVID certificates. Because there is another danger, I ask you to support this bill and not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u221	Thank you. Well, Alexander Sergiyovich asked me to put it up. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take 77 of the amendment of the Bacumov People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:49]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. I therefore propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for the forgery of documents relating to preventive vaccinations (registration number 6084). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:14:37]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to propose that the committee be returned to work on the second reading. Ready to vote? I'll make that offer, please vote. [[14:15:16]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the bill is considered rejected. Thank you. Let's move on. The next question is 6103, it's a bill. Draft Act amending Chapter VI, Final and Transitional Positions, of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. Dear colleagues, before we go to his consideration, we must vote on a few such votes. Bill No. 6103, first of all, requires a vote to include it in the agenda. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please, I propose to include in the agenda a draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Act on Housing and Utilities (project registration number 6103). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[14:16:39]] For 259. Decision taken. Next. I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session of Bill 6103. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:17:06]] For 263 Decision taken. And I'm also proposing to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please support and vote. [[14:17:33]] For 233 Decision taken. I invite the Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Areas of Hotany Natalia Volodymyrovna. Please, Natalia Volodymyrna, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u222	Honorary Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies, Today's Final and Transitional Positions, of Ukraine's Housing and Utilities Act, establishes the duty of the executive body of local councils to announce and conduct a competition with the appointment of a multi-room manager by 1 May 2021. However, considering that the Law of Ukraine of 1060 came into force on May 1, 2021, it became impossible to carry out that provision. The draft law proposes to continue the deadline for the announcement and competition for the appointment of a multi - apartment house manager in buildings that do not have a unit of joint owners of the apartment building and the tenants of the apartment buildings have not been identified with the form of management, and no such competition has been and has been announced since March 1, 2022. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law is necessary for the completion of the transitional period before the provision of services for the management of a multi-family building, since on October 1, 2021, the population of nearly 48,000 apartment buildings lives under previous legislation. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u223	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services, Eugene Pavlovich Pivovarov. Please, Eugene Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u224	Thank you, Your Honor. As of December 15, 2021, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Energy and Housing Services had before it a government bill amending Chapter VI of the Act on Housing and Utilities (No. 6103). The project proposes transferring the legal term from May 1, 2021, until March 1, 2022, to the executive authorities of the city to announce and conduct a competition for the selection of managers by multiple apartment buildings if they were not announced until then, and the coowners of multiple apartment buildings did not choose another administration. As of December 10, 2021, the Supreme Council was recommended to administer the draft law. After consideration by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Energy, it was recommended to the Supreme Council on the adoption of the Housing and Communal Services Act (6301) in order of the day-to-day session and its adoption after the first reading on the basis. Dear colleagues, please support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u225	Thank you, Eugene Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this bill, so please write down: two in favour, two in favour. Please, everything's under the Rules. Please, National Deputy Krivosheev Igor Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u226	Please give the word to Alexander Gorenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u227	Please, Alexander Gorenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u228	Congratulations, fellows of honor! Bill 6103 provides for the executive body of local self - government to announce the award of a multi - apartment building manager by 1 March of this year if this has not been done last year. The project aims to complete the transition to a new model of relationships between the owner of multiple apartment buildings and the manager. Where co-owners behave passively and do not define for themselves the maintenance model of the house – the OSBB or the management company – it will be accepted by the local self-government authority on the basis of the competition. I think it's important to increase citizens' information about the competition, because this will lead to increased competition between management companies. In Odessa, for example, a very large portion of the services provided by the former CDS are completely impeccable. Decline in mass discontent, and people come to my reception hall almost every day on this very issue. So I propose to support this bill in the first reading, to vote in favour, because it will significantly increase competition between the governing companies and allow Ukrainian citizens to receive more quality housing services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u229	Thank you. The word is given to Alexia Yuriovich Kucherenko, faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u230	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, head of the Ukrainian Housing Owners' Association. Dear colleagues, right now I just want to explain to you why Fatherland can't vote, with all due respect to the Deputy Minister, to Minister Chernishov, for this law. Because unfortunately, the honorable "ministers of the people" was chosen before you in the 15th to 16th years, the wrong way of reforming the housing sector. The whole purpose of the laws that were passed is the 417th Property Rights Act, the LLC Act, which is to translate the problem of capital repairs and maintenance, and to modernize housing directly to residents, owners. Thank God you've now come to realize that this is not a real goal. But we need to sit down and quietly review that false reform, the so-called liberal that the predecessors made, including your first, Madam Minister, which you gave us in the 19th year, to understand how to get into the state-run program of capital repairs, into the state-run modernization program. And to understand where we're going to take the money, to understand that this can't be put on the citizens and just on the municipalities, to understand that it takes a professional approach, and to make, probably, the responsible municipalities, the local self-government authorities for the same housing fund that they've been operating for many years, and that they've been allowed by law to write off their balance sheets and just drop it on the so-called effective owners. But there are no effective owners, and they will not soon be without strong government support. That's why we don't support him. But if you accept it, we will make a very substantial second reading with the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u232	Please pass the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u233	Please, Paul the Bacon.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u234	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, especially the distinguished Ukrainians who live in their homes! We live with you in the 21st century, and we need to realize that those who own apartments are responsible for both the stair cages and the attics and the basements and the entire building. Of course, in the country today, especially in the district centers, not all homes have brought together joint owners, and this is a disaster. The disaster is that local governments have little communication with people, more work is needed, especially in the newly created communities, and more people are gathered together to explain that the responsibility for houseowners lies with them. So it is necessary to create a union of coowners, and in another case the legislator will allow the local government to appoint your steward’s house, and this steward will serve you along the three - way route that will be marked on the family’s wallets. Therefore, it is better to create a union of joint owners, to assume responsibility for this property, and for these buildings in which you live. And the state at that time also guarantees you appropriate grants. For example, a program of thermodynamics, which is worth several billion dollars. Each group of coowners can use it and bring their homes to proper standards in order to save once again their family budgets for heat and other services. As a result, respectable Ukrainians living in their homes are united. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u235	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u236	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, well, look, about the experience of assigning stewards to apartment buildings, he is not, to put it mildly, unambiguous. Who is doubtful, look at the experience of Odessa, see what policies there are in tariffs, services, and how much people really pay. And this problem really needs to be solved. Of course, we will not be participating in the preparation for the second reading of the bill, because in our view, the fundamental policy of tariffing and pricing on energy in Ukraine should be different. Why? I'll remind you, we promised to double the tariffs and gas prices, for example, for the population and so on, we had some economic calculations and so on. What do we have in fact? In fact, there's a substantial increase in housing and utility bills. I'll get some calculations from the U.K. State Statistics Service that show that in November, housing and utility services in the country accounted for 23 billion dollars. What happened in November 2019? 15 billion dollars, plus almost 55 percent. That's how we don't change tariffs and credit them for residential services. Another moment, let's take October of the month. So it was 16.4 billion dollars, and it was 7 two years ago, plus 131 percent for residential services. That's how we don't change the payment, that's what's happening in tariff policy. So, in our view, when we raise questions with you and make changes to the Housing Services Act, as it sounds to us, it's a government document, I'll remind you that we went to the government to restore the tax on electricity, to restore that fair price, taking into account the price of gas of our own production and other moments. Then tariff policy in the country will be fair and payment will be valid for most Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are asked by the National MP, Bondar Mikhailo, and then we will move on. And, I see, Anna Krakhod, and then we're going to go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Until Mikhailo Bondar, then Anna Speedhod, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u238	Thank you. Michael Bondar, European Solidarity. "European Solidarity" will support this bill, but I'm sure, and all the factions from the committee should be the wrong bills these days. At a time when we're importing electricity from Belarus and Russia, when in 2021 62 percent of imported coal production is the Russian Federation, we should adopt laws that would ensure the energy security of our nation and protect our own producers and manufacturing companies and coal companies. Hence, these laws should be considered first. And it is Greeny who is responsible for the loss of our nation's energy security, signing laws that allow import.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u239	Please, Ana Constantine's Speedboat. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MP supports this bill in the first reading, because it is completely technical, and it's just long overdue for a competition to appoint a multi-housing house manager by the local authorities. But let's face it, he's not solving any housing problems. And, really, my colleague said it right, just like that, when we transferred everything to OSBB and hung all the problems to OSBB, we subtract responsibility from the local authorities, from the central authorities and translate all of these problems into local residents, we translate them into property owners. It shouldn't be, because people used to pay for utilities, and they paid, including the capital repairs of their housing, which were simply not done. And that's why we really need to change the whole way of this system of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Act on Housing and Communal Services (Registration No. 6103). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:33:46]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Next bill. This is the first reading, this is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration number 5450). Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:34:24]] For 229 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the Deputy Minister of Education and Teaching of the Horn of Borisovna. Borisovna's faith as you go, I understand it may not apply to you, but I would like both the Ministry of Education and Science, and the Cabinet of Ministers have finally refused to call this shameful practice a bill as a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. The law should make it clear what this law is about and what social relations it will regulate. Thank you. I'm the one who's been addressing the Cabinet of Ministers. So please note this. Please, I give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Education and Teaching, Rog's Faith Borisovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u242	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The development of a system of non-school education, the orientation of it on values, the enhancement of quality, the creation of an effective network of institutions and the expansion of access to secondary education is one of the key priorities for reforming the education sector. In modern - day conditions, new functions are placed on extra - school education. First of all, it's the formation of a leader, a patriot, a successful competitive personality. The definition, as well as the need for harmonization of terminology by the Ukrainian Education Act, has been introduced by the government for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending certain laws of Ukraine. The laws of Ukraine on "External Education" and "On Education" define out-of-school education as one of the components of a continuous education system that aims at developing the skills of education providers, satisfying their interests and needs for professional identification. Today, more than 1,350 out - of - school institutions have more than 1 million children. The draft act addresses important issues relating to the functioning and development of non-school education institutions, such as ensuring the quality of non-school education, delimiting responsibilities in the field of non-school education between executive authorities, the rights and responsibilities of the participants in the educational process, including the participation in the criteria of non-school education of persons who acquire professional superiority and higher education, the creation of a safe educational environment and competitive selection of the head of the secondary education institution. The bill was submitted twice for public discussion and was supported by an international association of non-school education. Adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u243	Thank you. Thank you, Vera Borisovna. [[B in m in s a l in]] Borisovna’s faith, all of it, is out of time. I don't want to upset you. I invite the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, Sergio Vitaliovich Babak. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u244	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Law 5450, indeed introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee handled him very carefully with all the steakholders. Most of them support him with minor comments that the committee is working with all of us on second reading. Thus, at its meeting, the committee recommended a bill of 5450 to be adopted on the basis of further work on second reading. Thank you, colleagues, and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u245	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich, brilliant report, short. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Briefly, as the title of this bill, thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, please sign in two -- yes, two -- against, please. Please give the floor to the national deputy Zimmerluku Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u246	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u247	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u248	Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, by improving the legal field in the field of education, the government has unfortunately not passed a perfectly perfect bill, which is evidenced by the numerous observations of the scientific and scientific administration. First, the legal definition of many terms requires clarity, clarity and clarity, otherwise a number of norms will remain only good intentions. In particular, what is "non-quality food services" or what is "the security of the education environment with the use of cyberspace"? Individual norms end up completely unacceptable to the law by the term "whatever," it's clear that it's a channel by which anything is possible. Secondly, a novelty about the formation of Ukrainian civic identity education in non-schoolers is very, very relevant, but what is it? We need to be clear about both the content and the essence. Thirdly, the sources of funding for this important structural component of education. They're wide, they're all-encompassing and that's good, but we need to bring this permissiveness in line with the status of the facility, and that's logical, because there are rules of the Budget Code. Fourthly, some of the bill's rules are sent to the executive, who is the state. So no, my friends, these are the rules of the Constitution, not the law, which is called upon to clearly identify the target performer, namely the body, the central executive authority or the local self-government body. We will support the first reading, taking into account that these shortcomings can be corrected for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u249	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, "The Party for the Future." Please. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u250	Respectful colleagues certainly need to support the bill, since it deals with complex issues related to extra - school education. And the Future Group will support it, as the Profile Committee has determined that technical regulations need to be supported. But first, unfortunately, we've been waiting a long time for the government of the Law on Preschool, actually, as provided for by the Education Act as early as 2018, which requires the preparation of separate professional laws that regulate preschool education, preschool education, vocational education and so on. And if we already had this law that we're looking for from the government, we probably wouldn't have to do something about terminology, understanding a system, mechanisms and so on today. So I'm asking the room to support this bill, because it's really technical, but the next step is out of school, where social guarantees will be clearly written out for extra-school workers, pay increases, like for all other pedagogical workers, and not just for high school, proper funding not only from the local budget. And if this social package for extra-school workers is guaranteed by the state, I think we're going to have the same pre-priority as secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u251	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zabrodski Mikhail Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u252	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u253	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, the name of this law is like the quintension of Zelensky's non-professional power, which is the main reason that led the country to where we are now both in the economy and in energy and in the defence sphere. Because you think about it, the law of the law. Well, listen, this isn't just about the Ministry of Education and Science. Because if these bastards don't know, the questions that arise are lawyers, the Ministry of Justice that agreed to this law. And in general, the question arises at the Prime Minister's level and at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers who voted in favour of this law before it went to the Ukrainian Parliament. But unlike Kabmin Zelensky in European Solidarity, the laws read. And this is really a law that regulates pretty important issues of out-of-school education, it has to be adopted. Yes, there are many shortcomings. But "European Solidarity" will support this law in the first reading, given that we sincerely hope that until the second reading on the committee, which is much more professional than the Cabinet of Ministers, which produces these ridiculous names, all things will be taken into account. And really, on the way out, Ukrainian education will get a law already that will have standards that will really help out beyond school, rather than drive it into a situation that is being driven in many other ways by the authorities of Greenland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u255	The word is, it's written to me: the national deputy of Rachmaninov, but I understand that you're handing Inna Romanovna, right? Please. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u256	Inna Sowsun, Voice Party. Dear colleagues, of course, this bill, despite some absurdity of its name, must be supported. Preschool is an important element of child development, and of course it is necessary to do everything possible to ensure that extra-school education can be obtained as freely as possible. This bill is trying to solve this problem. But I would like to draw attention to other issues that concern the current situation in Ukrainian education. In September 2022, children who went to the New Ukrainian School will go to the fifth class, children who were learning new programs, new approaches, and who should now go to the fifth class. That means they have to get new teacher-subjects that need to be re-examined, where time and money have to be invested. We must make sure that the reform of the New Ukrainian School does not die when we move from primary school to primary school. Unfortunately, today we do not see the active movement and work of the Ministry of Education and Science in this direction. Frankly, I also highly doubt whether the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, which appoints the head of the tobacco directorate, can move forward with the reform of the New Ukrainian School. Unfortunately, reality and threats are now very scary. I would very much like to take this opportunity to contact the committee’s profile committee now, to take advantage of our parliamentary control, and to see how preparations for the fifth class of the New Ukrainian School are now taking place. Let's listen to everyone who's involved. Let's talk about the risks that we can then talk about, not in the summer of 2022, when it's too late, but now that there's still a chance to fix and do everything we can to keep the Ukrainians believing in a reform of education that will bring better education to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u257	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Paulica Yuri Alexiovich. Please, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u258	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! There is no doubt an important subject in this bill, aimed at settling a series of regulations that relate to the development of extra-school education. At the same time, the bill does not provide the main basic answer, and how will extracurricular education be financed, funded by an extracurricular teacher? How will the system of upgrading out - of - school education take place? Unfortunately, in the process of reforming the so-called decentralization, we have simply forgotten about children and are now trying to catch up on the failures that are taking place in the formation, existence and activities of the territorial communities. And unfortunately, this bill does not answer again how decentralization will have extra-school education. So I support colleagues who talk about the need for a thorough revision to the second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u259	Please, Roman Gritchcock, and then we'll go to the vote, your honorary colleagues. Invite people's deputies. And Bilozer. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u260	Honorable colleagues, high school is important, you know, because of who works and who becomes a person, much depends on where she went to the group or what she did in high school. Fortunately, we have a very strong system of extra-school education with you, and we have extremely talented teachers. However, there are challenges in the extra-school system, one of these challenges is decentralization, closure, optimization of many out-of-school institutions. I want to talk to all the OTG representatives, don't shorten the teachers, don't shut down the extracurricular education facility, out-of-school education is the foundation of our education. As for this bill, on the first reading, please support everyone, and we will work with the committee on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u261	Thank you. Please give the final word to the National MP, Bilozur Larissa Mikolayovni, and let's proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u262	Colleagues, what have we done not to close the schools in the community? Actually, I'm looking at that except. Here the bill really defines certain issues of out-of-school education, but I don't see here, apart from monitoring, auditing, licensing, the responsibilities that this law defines, the expansion of governance by the CMU, what we do here, what we do not see, and what we do to ensure that people don't mistrust and receive these meager wages, and what we do to keep out-of-school institutions, children's homes and youth. Today, 90 percent of preschool children receive education in urban areas alone, and rural children lose this opportunity. And that's why in their legislative activities, the government, in principle, and the MPs, drop out of preschool complex and out-of-school from the point of view and diminish its importance. Such laws, they are not, you know, rigid and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u263	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, the only thing that justice has to say is that such names have been in parliaments of all calls, and this is a practice that needs to be completed. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws (project registration number 5450) Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:50:45.]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for supporting this bill. Next, we have two bills. We've got 10 minutes left, but I'm going to continue to finish this bill right now, if we can get to the next one -- because there's no amendment, that's the second reading. We can't make it. Please, we have 10 minutes. We're moving to project registration number 5461, 5461-1. This is a draft law amending the Education Act of Ukraine to establish responsibility for the transfer of academic works in violation of the principles of academic integrity. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:51:45]] For 227 Decision taken. I invite the author of the first draft of Sowsun Inna Romanovna, this is Bill 5461, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u264	Inna Sowsun, Voice Party. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill that I have developed with other authors. Including in particular, I would like to thank Julia Grishinius of the People's Servant, who joined in drafting the bill with a very complex and, I think, not a very clear name. The bill is called "to increase responsibility for violations of the principles of academic integrity." Sometimes a complicated name, the idea of this bill is as simple as possible. I turn to those who listen to us now and to colleagues in the hall. Pick up your phones, put a very simple word in the Google: the dissertation on the order. You will find hundreds of sites that offer such services. Unfortunately, today this is not just a problem for Ukrainian education, but in the international academic field, Ukraine is now known as one of the countries that most often produces the writing of academic texts. Here's the "key dissertation" -- it's a violation, "cursion course" is a violation. And that's a violation that a single teacher can't detect. As a professor at the university, I can check for plagiarism, but in the case of a person who ordered and paid for a piece of writing, the teacher can't check it out. Because he's proposing this bill? He's actually offering a very simple thing: to define this as a type of violation in order to further develop legislation. And there's a discussion with the Committee of Law, so that we can finally punish the crimes, first of all, the companies that make millions of dollars in this, make money to lie, make money to actually sell diplomas. It's not a complicated bill, it solves a very pointy problem, but it's very important, it restores justice, it restores confidence in the system of Ukrainian education. And I'm asking him to support me with the other authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u265	Thank you. The word is given to the author of the alternative bill to the national deputy of Ukraine Lukashev Aleksandra Anatoliyovich. Please, Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u266	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Lukashev Alexander. I would like to present for your consideration an alternative bill to amend the Education Act of Ukraine to reinforce the responsibility for violations of the principles of academic integrity (registration number 5461-1). Dear friends, our Ukrainian Parliament or not the world's first scientific potential, because by the number of candidates and doctors of science, we are far ahead of our colleagues in the world and in Europe. But there's another problem, which is the subject of both the basic bill supported by the committee and our alternate one that we've developed with our colleagues. We need to get rid of this social and scientific evil, which is academic unkindness, namely, the submission of texts to the learners, the authors of which they do not speak and are not. So we urge colleagues to support our own bill, because we propose to introduce the term "academic Text" that is currently being used in the Cabinet of Ministers Order, which regulates the activities of the National Repository of Academic Texts. And in addition, our bill is supported by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, and also by the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the National Academy of Teaching Sciences of Ukraine. We therefore look forward to your support and continuation of the professional discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u267	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation by Sergei Vitaliovich Babak. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u268	Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues! The law is really necessary, and it only begins to regulate an area in which, unfortunately, we have some problems. The committee has considered both laws – both basic and alternative, and recommends the adoption of draft Law 5461. Because it's essentially committee law, most of the committee was working on it. So I'm going to ask you to support this as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-25-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? There is no need to discuss. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, prepare for the vote. I'm proposing to the committee to adopt Bill No. 5461, this is the draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine to establish responsibility for the transfer of academic works in violation of the principles of academic integrity. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready? Please vote. [[14:57:49]] For the 250. Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Colleagues, and we agreed that the final vote today would be the second reading of the draft Act amending the Higher Education Act on the publication of the annual report of the head of the higher education institution and the targets of the higher education institution (registration number 5685-d). I invite Sergio Vitaliovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation. Dear colleagues, as far as I've been informed, no one will make any adjustments. Nobody. Can we vote? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the publication of the annual report of the head of the higher education institution and the targets of the higher education institution (project registration number 5685-d). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:59:16]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
