ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-01-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We're about to begin our session. I'm the only one I'm asking. First, as always, the issue of safety. All the phones are converted into “airplane” mode, so let's make no-fly zone here in Parliament. The other one. I'm asking you very much for that video that's going to be taken today, and you can do it not earlier than 16 hours. I'm asking you, too. Third. Today we're going to have a performance by the European Parliament President Roberta Metzola. I'm asking you all very much when there's going to be a performance that doesn't happen the way it used to be, that someone's been pouting, getting together, talking. Let us show the utmost hospitality to our guest, because on its part today it is an act to come to Kiev, to address the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] After that, as we agreed, in the mode in which we work, we are voting on the bills that have been passed today. After that, we take a break. We'll tell you about the next meeting separately. So thank you so much for being here today. And I think we can start. Yes, dear colleagues? Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-01-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we have not closed our plenary session. So today, according to our decree on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the terms of the military status proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, this difficult time for the state in Ukraine is with its high esteem the President of the European Parliament, Mrs. Robert Metzola. She's in a guest bed right now. Please welcome Mrs. Mezola. [[Applause]] Madam President, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, in these difficult but unbreakable days of the great Ukrainian people's struggle against criminal Russian aggression, let me thank you for your consistent and determined support for Ukraine's independence and territorial integrity, our unchangeable aspirations to uphold democratic values and human rights on Ukrainian soil. Dear colleagues, in good tradition, let's all start this day together in the Parliament of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[(The National Hymn of Ukraine) (Applause)]] Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! With great sadness and pain, we will learn about the loss of our soldiers, the heroic and self-loyal defenders of Ukraine's independence and sovereignty, the defenders of our democratic and human values. Because every Ukrainian knows that heroes do not die, their immortal feats remain in our hearts and minds forever. The determined victories of our champions of Mariupol, Chernigov, Sum, Kharkiv, Kiev, and other cities and towns of Ukraine will forever enter history as an example of boundless devotion, valour and self-sacrifice, of love for the land of life. Honorable colleagues, victims are selected, sadly, and close ones present in this room. Let us therefore pay tribute to the memory of our fallen defenders for a moment of silence. Let us also honor the memory of peaceful citizens who were innocently killed by the Russian army. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have the pleasure of inviting the President of the European Parliament, Mrs. Robert Metzola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-01-m0.u3	Dear Ruslane, distinguished members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, worthy soldiers, brothers and sisters! Thank you so much for inviting me to Kiev and giving me the opportunity to address the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is an honor to be here with you, with fellow European parliamentarians. And even more to me, it's actually a duty to be here. This is the responsibility I have to shoulder. This is a responsibility to you who are on the forerunner. I want to prove to you that even if there is a darkness of war, equally parliamentary democracy prevails, wins. I present to you today the European Parliament and from the Europeans I want to mention one thing: we are with you, we are with you, we are in good times, we are in good times, we are with you. What we've seen in the last month, what's happening in your country is the destruction, death and the innocent lives that they take, the end of the war, the lives that they take. The lives of women, men, children. But you, but we, the whole world, Europe, have seen your victory, your courage, your determination. You know, Snake Island heroes are famous, already known around the world. And now the proud soldiers and supporters of Mariupol will inspire even further and further generations in the future and in the future. And I think that soon, no doubt, we will see the triumph of hope and victory, because you have shown that no intimidation, no attacks on you will destroy your dignity. The European Union and the world can see that you are the protectors of your home country, but you are not just fighting to protect your home territory. You're fighting for what we all believe in -- democracy, freedom, the rule of law, because in Ukraine these values are not just popular words, they're the things you fight for, because you know there will be nothing else without it. The European Union was created to link the fate of all European countries so that there would be no more such conflicts that occurred earlier. The European Union is a project for peace, but it's not just a project for peace, it's a project for freedom. I want to say that Ukraine is Europe! Now it's a very sad, tragic time. Many Ukrainians lost their lives, you lost your relatives, your friends. Our thoughts come first and foremost to you all, and please believe me when I say that in the European Parliament, in the European Union and in general Europeans, all of us are from Ukraine. We stand for Ukraine! You know, words can inspire, but sometimes words can change the world. But the world must also act, the world needs compassion. And I'm bringing you the memo today that we support, that we hope for you, and I want to tell you that we will never leave you. You know, there's one city that we'll never forget is Mariupol. The shelling of maternity homes, the shooting of children are actions that no one will ever forget, because they are inhuman acts. This is what you've faced, and I hope that people will never, ever, ever forget what happened to you. I want to give you these promises. First of all, this attack on your country by Russia means that Russia has disrupted the world and disrupted the world's order. Putin won't get away with it. We need more sanctions and what they should be responsible for what they did here, in Ukraine. The second thing I want to promise. The European Union acknowledges that. acknowledges the Ukrainian European ambitions and the desire to be a candidate country for accession to the EU. I stand here before you all so that you can rely on me so that you can rely on the European Parliament in support of your country's plan to achieve this goal. We're not gonna let you down, we know you're gonna do it. We know that Ukraine sees the European Union as where it wants to go. We will answer honestly and with hope. Each part has its moments, but the European future of Ukraine – we should never doubt anything here. And third, we'll do everything we can to get your people back to their homes and rebuild your life. We will help you rebuild your cities, your homes, in order to overcome all the consequences of this unpleasant attack. We have already provided, for our part, with assistance, financial assistance, military assistance, humanitarian assistance, and this assistance will continue to be provided. We will create a solidarity fund with Ukraine and organize a special donor conference to continue to assist Ukraine because this attack has changed your life. You didn't want this attack, you didn't focus your efforts on confrontation, but you have to live this moment because it will determine your destiny, your courage and your future. My goal is for the European Union to face this moment of victory with the same dignity. And so, the rule of law, this is a very important thing, Putin has failed, underestimated your courage and your desire for a democratic system, and such a Putin regime will pay an unprecedented price for it, our sanctions will help in that. Millions of people from Ukraine have already left, many millions are displaced, we need to be ready to work with these people, but more importantly, we need to do what we can to give a future, a good future to those who come to the European Union, we are ready to help you, and this will always be. We continue to be open, with an open heart to give you an open hope to see how we felt for you, and we will be compassionate, and we will be courageous, and we will reduce our energy dependence on the Kremlin. And I want to see the moment when Europe will be free and secure without energy supplies from Russia. At a time of crisis, we should remember that energy has always been a political thing. Russia understood this very well for many years, but you understood it, and Europe understood it, and Europe should be heading towards zero gas purchases from Russia. This is of course an ambitious goal, but it's very necessary, because we shouldn't finance Russia's consumption of energy media. And I hope that thanks to our efforts, we can do this quickly. Now there's still an information war, we need to increase our cybersecurity and, more importantly, we need to work against the narratives that Russia is spreading in Europe. There are still a lot of people in Russia who are the same on our side. Now I want to end with the words of Jonathan Sachs: "It takes great courage to protect the righteous. We need this courage even more to protect what we're protecting." Taras Shevchenko said, "Fight, fight," because you have courage, you have courage in Ukraine. We're with you today, we'll be with you tomorrow, and we'll never, ever leave you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-01-m0.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the distinguished Roberta Metzoli for taking part in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council and for the firm and unwavering support of our state in these difficult times. Ukraine is proud to have real friends in the European Parliament. Thank you, Roberta, thank you. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, we have a meeting today with factions and groups leaders after our meeting, and now we're moving on to work. A list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board has been given to you. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote and press the "yes" button. Dear colleagues, please take part in the signal vote. [[14:33:21]] For 305 305, we can vote. Dear colleagues, we begin, as we have always said, because all the laws discussed by the Conciliation Council, we will proceed immediately to making a decision on them, if you don't mind, in order not to go into their discussion. Dear colleagues, Bill 7210. This is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation to provide support for the rehabilitation of the population affected by the Russian Federation's armed aggression. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7210. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:34:18]] For 318 Decision taken. Next Bill 7209. This is a draft Act amending certain legislation on the exemption of certain categories of citizens from military service. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7209. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:34:56]] For 317 Decision taken. Next bill. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7217. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to improve the assembly and social security of the Territorial Defence Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the voluntary formation of territorial communities. I would like to propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7217. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:35:43]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I'm betting on the vote on Bill 7226. This is a bill amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families to improve the order of medical care for Ukrainian military personnel under military conditions. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt, as a whole, the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7226. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:36:30.]] For 323 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7229. This is a bill establishing awards for voluntarily transferred to the Armed Forces of Ukraine suitable for the use of the aggressor state's military technology. I would like to propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt, as a whole, the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7229. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:37:12]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7234. This is the Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation during the war period. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Once again, this is Bill 7234. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[2:37:55]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7228. This is the draft Law on the Protection of the Interests of Persons in the Intellectual Property Sector during the Wartime. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt a bill of 7228 as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:38:37]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7221. This is a draft Act amending section 9, paragraphs 5 - 2, of the Act on State Aid to Hostages (for the application of its provisions during the legal regime of martial law). I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7221. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:39:23]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7169. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of Forced Removal in Ukraine of Property Rights Objects of the Russian Federation and its Residents on the clarification of individual provisions. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7169. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:40:07]] For 305 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations to Dmitry Andryovich himself. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next Bill 7058. This is a draft law amending certain legislative acts to improve the activities of the prosecutor's office in the context of armed aggression against Ukraine. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal rights bill 7058. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:40:48]] For 292 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7236. This is a draft law amending article 114-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve responsibility for the unsanctioned dissemination of information on means of countering the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. I would like to propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt, as a whole, the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7236. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:41:32]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 4147. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of the national qualification system. I propose a second reading and, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 4147. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:42:06]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill 5542-1. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the stability of the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons. I propose to accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill 5542-1. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:42:40]] For 298 Decision taken. Bill 5542-1 was adopted as a whole. Next. Bill 7192. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on State and Municipal Property Rental. There is a proposal to accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill 7192. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:20]] For 310 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7176. This is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on monitoring potential threats to Ukraine's national security in the economic sphere. There is a proposal to adopt this bill in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill 7176. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:57]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and we also have a bill that we have adopted, but there is a need to resolve the disagreements, 7180. This is about removing the disagreement in Ukraine's draft law on amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the principles of organization and the movement of resistance. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence to remove the inaccuracies and inconsistencies between the individual positions in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 24 March 2022 of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the principles of organization and conduct the resistance movement (registration No. 7180). In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to eliminate some inaccuracies and inconsistencies in certain provisions of the law. If you don't mind, I'll put this document to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposals I have tabled for the elimination of disagreements and inconsistencies in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving the Principles of the Organization and Conducting the Movement of Resistance (registration No. 7180). People's deputies, please vote. We vote in favour of removing inaccuracies. [[14:45:26]] For 323 Decision taken. The inaccuracies have been removed. Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-01-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I propose that, according to tradition, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should immediately sign the bills adopted today by the Supreme Council as a whole and send them to the President of Ukraine immediately. If there is no objection, then I ask you to put this proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[14:46:05]] For 319 Decision taken. We gave this commission to the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-01-m0.u6	Thank you, thank you, dear colleagues. Bills will be signed soon. Now we have a few more bills on the ground. I read too, I read the decisions on the basis, and we vote. Bill 7232. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Economic Relations Subjects with the Aggressor State. There is a proposal to include in the order of the day session and to accept as a basis and, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules, to cut the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments for the preparation of the second reading. 7232. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[2:47:02]] For 309 Decision taken. Next bill, 7233. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislation on the single contribution and calculation of alcohol of ethyl denatured and chemical and technical purposes. I'm betting on putting it in the agenda and taking it as a basis. Dear colleagues, please vote. 7233. [[14:47:42]] For 270. Decision taken. Next. Bill 7198. This is a draft of the Act on Compensation for Damage and Destruction of Certain Real Property Categories as a result of hostilities, terrorist acts, diversions caused by Russian Federation military aggression. I propose to include in the agenda of the day’s session and to adopt as a basis for drafting provisions that were not considered in the first reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:48:40]] For 307 Decision taken. Next bill 7172-1. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prohibition of political parties. Political parties, yes. This is Bill 7172-1. There is a proposal to include the agenda of the day session and to accept it as a basis. Ready to vote? Bill 7172-1. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:49:24]] For 302 Decision taken. And the final bill for today is Bill 7214. This is a draft law banning the propaganda of the Russian neo-Nazi totalitarian regime, an act of aggression against Ukraine by the Russian Federation as a terrorist state, a symbolism used by the military and other military formations of the Russian Federation in the war against Ukraine. I propose to include in the agenda of the day and to take into account the Committee's proposals and, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules, to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments for the preparation of the second reading. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:22]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, all the questions that were planned for adoption today are under consideration. Thank you all for your fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. The time and place of the next meeting will be announced in advance. Dear fellows, with us is the truth, God is with us! We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine! We'll win together! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-01-m0.u7	I'm asking the leaders of factions and groups, now you'll have a meeting with Mrs. Metzola on the third floor. Please.
