ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, before the plenary meeting continues, I would like to emphasise the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the beginning of the plenary session, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than 30 minutes after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a single plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war, we continue the plenary session at the suggestion of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in good tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today, September 7th, Ukraine celebrates the 30th anniversary of Ukrainian military intelligence. Our military intelligence is one of the cornerstones of the national security of the Ukrainian state, which stands firm and courageous in defending Ukraine's national interests. The results of its activities are extremely important because they save lives, preserve our territories, and enable the state to take several steps ahead of the enemy. Honorable officers, fellow workers and veterans of Ukrainian military intelligence, on behalf of the Supreme Council, welcome the most sincere greetings on the occasion of your professional holiday. We express our gratitude to each of you for your dedicated service, your unbreakable fighting spirit, your high professionalism, your loyalty to the Ukrainian people, and your love for your Father. We want strong health, new perfection, and victory in the name of the future European state. Glory to the scout soldiers! Let's give it up for our brave heroes and heroes. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we also bow our heads to the light of the memory of the scout soldiers, all the defenders and protectors of Ukraine who gave their lives for each of us, for the entire Ukrainian people, for the pure blue sky and the generous gold fields of our country. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of fallen heroes. Eternal glory to the heroes! [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the day’s vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take part in the signal vote by pressing the "Pro" green button. I would like to remind you that by keeping the sensor button, you have to press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to hold a signal vote. [[10:08:04]] For 199 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I stress once again the need for sustained compliance with security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not to disseminate information on the conduct of plenary meetings and decisions taken in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Let's start with the first one. You will be asked about the appointment of the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, belong to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. Ukrainian Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal on September 6, 22nd, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of Umerov Rustem Enverovich as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the procedure we agreed to at the Conciliation Council is proposed. Presentation by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, within 3 minutes, of the candidate's statement, within 3 minutes, of the candidate's reply to questions from the national deputies, up to 9 minutes, a report from the profile committee, up to 3 minutes, statements from the MPs and groups, up to 16 minutes, decision-making. Up to 35 minutes. The Conciliation Board has approved such a procedure, so if there is no objection, we will move on to the issue. No objections? None. Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 31 with the Prim badge. And 37 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I give the floor to National Deputy Rustem Enverovich Umerova for a public declaration of conflict of interest. Rustem Enverovich, announcing a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u2	I declare a conflict of interest, I will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Let's move on to the question. I invite the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, to speak to the candidate. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u4	Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians! In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, I propose the appointment of Umerov Rustem Enverovich as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u5	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the floor for the speech is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Rustem Enverovich Umerova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Leading the holding fund today is a helmet, and the helmets need to be taken. I'll start with simple statistics. Over the past year, Ukraine has spent some 156 billion dollars on the maintenance of the Armed Forces. Since the beginning of Russia’s invasion, Ukraine has spent 130 billion dollars a month supporting the Armed Forces. The cost of the army is increasing, and the economic damage is increasing. By the beginning of June, the direct damage to the Ukrainian economy was more than $103 billion, according to the report of the Economy. The total loss of GDP, the end of investment, the outflow of labour exceeded $0.5 trillion. Our common goal today as statesmen is to restore the Ukrainian economy. We have to sell and privatize enterprises that are not strategic for the state. Business can upgrade these businesses and pay taxes to the budget, create new jobs and opportunities for the private sector. The three main goals that I have set myself as Head of the Fund of State: the reconstruction of Ukraine, i.e. the involvement of investments; the search for new effective owners for business losses; and the strengthening of the Ukrainian economy. Today, Ukraine needs money for an army, for reconstruction, for social needs. It just won't, but today we're all working in a state of emergency for the result. I didn't want to talk too much, so I'm asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u7	Thank you. No, wait, the question is to you. Mr. Umerov, one more question for you. Please ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for a candidate for the post of Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for up to 9 minutes, one minute for a question, up to 2 minutes for an answer. Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u8	Please pass the word to my colleague Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u9	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Rustem, with great respect to you as a man who defends and fights for the rights of the Crimean Tatar people, as well as Ukrainians in general. But I have a lot of questions about what the State Property Fund should be doing right now. You said one of your tasks was to invest. Are there enough laws, standards that encourage the entry of new investors? Do you know about the Investments Act? What do you see, the first steps the state has to take, because there's no investment and there's not going to be until the end of the war, and you're going to be head of the holding fund tomorrow, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u11	Thank you for asking. The state of the economy, you see, is very complicated. The holding fund, when it was being created, I just finished with the profile committee to communicate, this is the holding fund that was created for one purpose, for one function. Today, war, it has other functions, but we also need to get rid of what is past, non-strategic, maybe areas, non-strategic enterprises -- privatize, make a transparent, normal lease. There are a lot of legal questions. We're going to have to do an inventory, what we're going to need is a foreign investor or a local investor, I don't want to distinguish them, we're going to have to do. There's a lot of things that some of the functions of the fund, for example, as an estimate, someone thinks they should be transferred to another institution, someone thinks rent should be done differently. So ideas, models, functions will always be a lot, but I want to spend the first two months there for inventory, then come to my profile committee and the Supreme Council with a proposal to get proposals together for both the Kabmin and the Supreme Council, and then approve this plan. So it's going to be difficult, today, just finishing up, very many things that legally need to be done, finding an investor very difficult, but we're going to try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u12	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u13	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Mr. Rustem, as you continue with your colleague Nina Yuzanin, with great respect for you, but by accepting the position of Head of the State Property Fund, you put your reputation on the line. First. I didn't hear from the previous answer: what kind of investments you want to make during the war. Which countries exactly do you have relations with, and who do you plan to work with to add value here? And finally. Please tell me, when you're talking about selling, do you know about selling Easter? We sold a lot of objects, how much foreign investment in these enterprises? I'll give you the answer: zero. Maybe the war got mixed up or maybe not sold by it. So I advise you once again to answer these questions to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. Foreign investment. First, we should, in September and October, we have a privatisation plan, we plan to get what the fund team now says, up to 400-600 million dollars from the sale of objects. So there are property complexes, and there are others. So in this sense, foreign investors, yes, we're working with the United States as a donor now, with Great Britain, with Europeans, but we need to expand this geography. If you look at it, we have emotional investors in the Middle East today. But it's going to have to, as I said, look, if we actually have nice businesses that can be privatized, we have to put them out, see what we have in the country. We have a lot of people in the country who can afford to buy it. If we're going to do our function as a fund and we can sell these objects, get the money in the budget, that's going to be our result. It's hard right now, the state of war, the investors are reluctant to come to our country, but it's all just work, it's the work of the Head of the Holding Foundation and his team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u16	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u17	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u18	Mr. Rustem, I'm more worried about you than you are. And honestly, I want you to announce right now what time it is you're giving yourself to do the principled actions that the Maintenance Fund is going to do. When can you tell society and all of us, what, for example, does it not work, or does it even have to be disintegrated? Because after the adoption of Law 7451, I don't think the Maintenance Fund can continue to exist. It could be a department, either in Minfin, or in the Ministry of Infrastructure, and no more. I want to hear from you, will you honestly tell us what the situation is and what is your schedule for moving this car?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Hopefully, by the end of the year, but I'm going to try to do this earlier, so this inventory, this report, wanted to take the first steps of its own to then prepare with the team such to be recommendations that I want to go through with the profiling committees, with the Kabmin and the experts to see if this fund remains or whether we can turn it into a sovereign fund, or if we can make it a fund. So by the end of the year, I want to look at what models, what the legal basis for this is, whether it needs to be better, maybe close it, and continue in a new format. So these things I want to work out by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u20	Thank you. I think it's a final question. Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk, "Fatherland" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I continue what my colleagues began with. Mr. Rustem, we have great respect for you and our entire faction. And, unfortunately, your reputation will be divided between appointment and appointment. Because right now you're really using respect among your colleagues and among civil society. I have two specific questions for you. First. Are you satisfied with the law adopted in this session hall regarding privatization, where the State Property Fund is, unfortunately, not a major participant but a statistician? And the second question. I would like to hear from you when you come to the Supreme Council and demonstrate and present your program, your development strategy for the State Property Fund and its use?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u22	Thank you. With pleasure, there's always room for improvement, as they say. As for the program, the strategies, as I have already responded, I would like to inventory, make an easy state report, what the fund is doing now, what plans, what constructions, what opportunities we can rebuild together and present it by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u23	All right, good fellows. Time's up. Thank you, Rustem Enverovich. Let's thank the challenger. Ladies and gentlemen, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Development, Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluh, is invited to the floor for the report. Please, Dmitri Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor. Hello. Our Committee on Economic Development at the meeting today reviewed the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Umerov Rustem Enverovich as Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine and agreed on a recommendation to appoint Umerov Rustem Enverovich as Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine. I'd like to point out the following. It seems to me that under the current conditions of our country's acute budget deficit, in the face of a severe financial deficit, the headship and the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund become part of international politics, part of international relations, because the Head will be responsible primarily for involving the resources that are missing from the outside, to establish the capital that is unfortunately less and less in our country because of the war, and to build trust relations accordingly, to find investors and to create a full cycle of enterprises and state-owned productions in Ukraine. So from this point of view, it seems perfectly logical for me to support the proposal of both the Prime Minister and the candidature of Mr. Rustem, our colleague, as a man we know as a sufficiently professional communicator, as a person we know and abroad, as a person who worked with us and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and has a wide range of contacts and contacts in European countries, in Asian countries, in Eastern countries. So personally, I'm going to support this candidature. I'm sure it'll work out. The committee will be fully supportive of the work of the new Head. And I urge all my colleagues to similarly support Mr. Umerov's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u25	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the MPs and groups. I remind you that we agreed to take two minutes away from the faction and the group. Please sign up. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u26	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs! The "Trust" MP supports this candidature. Yesterday we had a meeting with a candidate, and it was interesting to hear that Mr. Rustem had a vision. And I would like to remind you from this high rostrum, Mr. Rustem, of one simple truth, that it is not a job that a person is adorned with, rather, a person’s job. If you're going to have a clear plan for state-owned enterprises that are currently in the departments of various ministries, it's, I think, a remnant of the Soviet Union, if we have such a state institution as the State Property Fund, you have to make an effort to be effectively and properly managed by this state property. What is said and feared by various experts, experts, and how to privatize during the war, I would like to ask these people, show me an example of where you learned these practices. That is why Ukraine must follow its course, and we wish you success in this way, in this position. We support you. Happy birthday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u27	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I think it would be a shame for Parliament to give its best personnel, and I think this candidate, Mr. Umerov, is very worthy of replacing this position as Head of the State Property Fund. We had to work with Mr. Umerov for a while as well as the head of the TSC on arms control that comes to Ukraine from our external partners. We have seen the professional and qualitative approach of the head of the TSK to this issue and we have some work to do, some quality work in its work. I want to say and wish Mr. Umer's Rustem Enverovich that his integrity and his professionalism would be directly proportional to the professionalism of the State Property Fund itself. Because we understand that in times of war there will obviously be a lot of sins, a lot of certain people who want to "warm hands" for privatization, what we call privatization can be said by the great privatisation of certain state-owned enterprises. That's why I think that these things here have to be watched over and not let themselves get burned, their honest name. So we want success, a productive work in the face of a difficult situation in which Ukraine is now located, and to fill in successfully the state budget of Ukraine. Good luck. Our MP group is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u29	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please, National Deputy Fedina Sofia Romanovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u30	Please pass the word to my colleague Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u31	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, dear future Head of the Holding Foundation, in fact, if we were to look at the situation with our state-owned enterprises right now, we would also like to talk to you about the countries where state-owned enterprises work effectively. And you can't always say that all state enterprises have to be sold. If the manager is an effective manager, a certain number of state-owned enterprises should remain. So when businesses that were supposed to give more revenue to the budget, to influence and regulate the economic situation in the country, it was now our turn to privatize. I'm surprised, it's surprising, because the state can be an effective owner if all the ministries, or as my colleague has said, go into the management of the Holding Fund, are effectively managed by such an enterprise. And we have the biggest problem: corruption, corruption, and a huge turnout for those who live at the expense of state enterprises. I think you have a huge mission now. I don't want to ask questions from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister as they see the situation with the development and the work of the Maintenance Fund. Obviously, by adopting previous laws, they were trying to completely ruin the work of this state institution. I want you to figure it out, put together this painting that you're going to finally sound like a person who has such high support among Ukrainian citizens. So the first steps, obviously, are well planned. You need to figure out what the state of the business is now, because, according to my data, I've been reading them somewhere completely recently, more than a thousand businesses that are now operating, I need to pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u33	Please give the floor to National Deputy Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u34	My dear colleagues, I think today we have a good example of the fact that staff appointments, especially during such a difficult period, can take place, not by political signs, but by professional signs, and I think it's a big plus that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister have submitted this candidacy. Rustem Enverovich has a wonderful education, he has a good career, he has high moral qualities as a man of dignity. And I want him not to lose all these characteristics in his new position. And I don't think we should tell you where you're going, what you're doing, and we should support and support not only today, but also in office. So I want success, and our faction will support this candidature. And I wish you success in a new position, hopefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u35	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Papiev Mikail Mikolaiovich, deputy group "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u36	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected colleagues, are the very important government office of the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. And I'm sure the Supreme Council of Ukraine has finally found a decent candidate for this position. I will personally support the candidate and explain why. Recently, we have created a temporary special commission on monitoring and use of weapons that Ukraine receives from allied countries. And there I saw the organizational skills of Rustem Enverovich, his intellectual abilities, his ability to find compromises, his authority among military attachés, his knowledge of the beautiful English language and many other virtues that this candidate has. The MP for Life and Peace will vote and support Rustem Enverovich for this position. Personally, I would ask him to pay particular attention to the activities of state enterprises. The State can effectively manage state-owned enterprises. Don't trust anyone when we say that the panacea of this is privatization, it's completely wrong. And another one, Rustem Enverovich. We have several structures that can contain all the signs of thieves. It's the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences with their lands. Please pay attention to them. It's a sanatorium of professional communities that have been stolen into the state, and they need to be returned to state property. And many other important questions are where we support and help you. Have a good one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two more speeches, Ivchenko and Železniak, and we move on to the vote. Please, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, then Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, and let us proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u38	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Mr. Rustem, I wish you good luck, and you can see that confidence in the speeches of members of different groups. But it is a sense of trust in you as a person for this assignment. Today you place your reputation on horseback as a nation. And the main task for today is not to eat or sell. The main task is to create added value and production in Ukraine. The holding fund has land, has enterprises, has powers. And these powers have to be involved in order to make production possible, to gather any goods in Ukraine. Appropriate laws are being passed, please analyze how much these laws can help you to make investments. I gave you an example of Easter. And that means we're going to go through, if there's a policy that was the previous leadership and the previous team, we're just going to go through. And then there's no chance in Ukraine of making investments and restoring economic potential. So that's what I suggest you pay attention to. Look at that team that you're going to work with, look at those people who can help you make investments, negotiate nice, form a case that can go to Ukraine immediately after the war to rebuild the economy, create a product with added value. But for now, Fatherland is an opposition faction. We'll hold on. Thank you. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u39	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, we will now vote in favour of the deputy of the Voice of Rustem Umerov. Some of you know him as the head of one of the most effective groups of friendships with Turkey, I think. And those results, including since the beginning of the war, speak of Rustem as an effective foreman and diplomat. Some people know Rustem as a co-initiator of the Crimea Platform, when a year ago we all voted with you for his laws, which included some of the things our enemy is now encroaching on. Some of you know him as the head of the TSC for investigating where the weapons are going, and he also showed himself effectively there. But few of you probably know how often, at every meeting, Rustem was talking about that we should invest. This person with Western education, with Western vision and Western approaches, who each meeting started and ended up saying that even now in difficult times, we need to invest, we need to invest capital, we need to create jobs, we need to do something with those 3,000 200 businesses that are just half on paper and half suck up money. So, I'm sure this vision can finally take place by Rustem. And I'm going to help him with everything I ask of you. So, your honor, of course, the Voice faction will vote for Rustem. This is a huge loss to the Ukrainian Parliament, but at the same time, I very much hope that this is a huge acquisition for both the holding fund and the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as for the investment climate in Ukraine. Thank you and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, I am voting on the question of the appointment of Umerov Rustem Enverovich as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're preparing to vote. Once again, someone may not have made it, I repeat: in accordance with article 85, part 12, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, I am voting on the question of the appointment of Umerov Rustem Enverovich as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:25]] For 282 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, let us welcome the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for a position of responsibility, and we wish him success, strength, and new improvements in the name of a prosperous Ukraine. I ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Colleagues, don't break up, we still have to say good-bye to him as a national deputy. Therefore, in accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine Umerov Rustem Enverovich wrote an application for his appointment. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am putting to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukraine’s national deputy Umerova Rustem Enverovich in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Wait, let's get you out of here. You're already in the middle of something. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask you to vote. [[10:41:58]] For 313 Decision taken. I ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Everything? Thank you. That's the question we're done with. Next question. Dear colleagues, we agreed without discussion, no amendments, right? 7581: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the emergency care system for the population at 112. So, dear colleagues, we agreed without discussion. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the emergency care system for the population at 112 (registration number 7581). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:43:12]] For 308. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Sergey Vladislavovich, is that with a replacement for the performance or what? With a replacement for the performance. Now we're in the middle of a special procedure. Dear colleagues, one second. A statement came from two factions to announce a break with a replacement for the performance. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. We're still asking 363 to launch the special procedure. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the bill 3663 will now be discussed, a bill that essentially closes, destroys, eliminates the National Social Insurance Fund. I just wanted you to understand what this is about. This fund will be transferred to the Pension Fund and, in fact, there will be no more such a separate fund. The National Social Insurance Fund is an integral institution of democracy and social protection for people. Democracy, because it's based on tripartism, where employers, unions and governments make collective decisions about how to spend this social money. And also, this fund is protected because there are security guards and security guards, you can't spend that money on the other side under any circumstances. But this bill provides enough terrible things. What is eliminated in general by the merger of the Social Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, and the Pension Fund? Listen simply, if you now vote on the special procedure, that means voting practically without the right of this law, which is what you're going to take away from people. First. For people who work in manufacturing, what will change? The employee's right to be treated and rehabilitated at the expense of a fund in a sanatorium. It cancels the assistance that the worker receives while in the rehabilitation wards of the sanatorium. The aid paid by the fund to people with disabilities who work for deaf people’s businesses will be cancelled. Instead of today’s full compensation for the loss of pay during a specific vacation, it is anticipated that it will be possible to provide partial compensation — that is, women will be deprived of specific money. Next. All the benefits that have been granted to people with disabilities have been removed as a result of some extraordinary production activity. Everything is being canceled for the disabled, remember that. Still, everything about getting help in case of an accident in production. There's a colossal amount, a series of 50 benefits for pregnant women, for post-natal women, for working people, for disabled people, as a result of work-related accidents. I can tell you that it's not just barbarism, it's essentially the destruction of the entire institution of the social state. I propose not to vote on the special procedure and to vote against it. It's a matter of your honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. The proposal signed by the 156 Ukrainian National Deputies on the application of the special procedure for the consideration of bills in the second reading provided for in article 119 pr. The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, as discussed in the second reading of the draft Act, registration number 3663 on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to consider this subject with discussion. With the discussion that there is no discussion at all, but you asked: two in favour, two in favour. Therefore, I give the floor to one of the initiators of this proposal to the Ukrainian national deputy Galina Mikolayivna Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u44	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, any national MP can have a point of view from any bill. In fact, with regard to Bill 3663, the committee took the first hit on discussing the concept of how we must move forward on the restructuring of the social model of our citizens' services, so that citizens do not have to reduce social protection, but only increase. I've just posted in our chat room what's going to happen after this bill is passed, social protection will not be much, but increased. As far as reorganization is concerned, the committee has exhausted all the possibilities to discuss this on the basis of an exclusive committee and has asked the room to consider this bill because it was introduced on June 15, 20, and the first reading was adopted on November 18th. You all know how our committee works, we always invite all the people's deputies to the debate with us. As for our corrective storm, which is in the hall, on October 8, when we elected the presiding officers, I asked a question that wasn't addressed as much to the candidates as to the room: why we don't have the opportunity to first-read to debate the drafts. Because actually, the corrections that are made by the "Paternity" faction are more than 219, 219 exactly, they're actually about the fact that the design that's proposed is not changing, the structure that remains what it is. This bill was received from the Governing Council, from all the princes: from Minnesota, from Minnesota, from the Human Rights Commissioner, positive responses. And the modernization with dijitalization needs to move on. Today, the Social Insurance Fund of 37 billion 22 duplicates the functions of the Pension Background. You know what this hall has accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u45	Thank you. Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask representatives of the MP factions and groups to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u47	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u48	Alexia Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. First of all, today is the day of Ukrainian military intelligence! Let's give a round of applause to the Ukrainian defenders, to our military intelligence, to our friends, to those on the foreground today, to those who are protecting our state today. And we thank them for what they do. Secondly, you and I are now discussing the social issue. What I'm trying to say is that our faction will be held up directly on this issue. But I want us here in the Supreme Council to say and tell people, of course, no one can see us, but we're all national MPs, and I'm asking you that through our social networks, because of our performances on those airs that they have, in those opportunities to communicate with voters, we've brought to the people that we've got a very difficult winter coming, that there's still time for people to prepare somewhere, to be stocked, to think about what they'll do in the event that there's no heating in their city, in case there's no electricity, in case there's no water supply. We all see what's going on with the city of Mikolai, it's a real hero city that hasn't had water since April. It's a completely conscious attack by invaders on this city's infrastructure to do it, it's part of the genocide that Russia is committing against Ukraine. Obviously, they will take advantage of the winter in order to continue to do so. And that's why our task as a nation today, on the one hand as far as we can, is to prepare in the extreme conditions that we have. On the other hand, it is important to tell people the truth and ask people to think about their own plan of action. Only together, as we all have since February 24, are we able to survive this winter together and not let Putin use his best general, "the ice general." Thank you. We're going to win.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u49	Pavluk Maxim Viktorovich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u50	Vasilovich. To the third party, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u51	Galino Mikolayevno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u52	On the rostrum? From where? Thank you. I'm going to keep saying that I couldn't say during the performance. The bill, in fact, is not only reorganizing, it cleans up the duplication of two-thirds of the money that goes through the Social Insurance Fund today. You and I finally started an electronic hospital together. You and I finally started an electronic workbook together. This means that the 22 billion who pay for the hospital letter today go to the MOH Pension Fund. MOH forms a human disease issue. After that, the Pension Fund in the employer’s personal office forms a matter according to each person, having complete information about the individual. Then this formed business goes to the Social Insurance Fund only for payment and returns from the FSS again to the Pension Fund, to the employer's personal office. This duplication of functions is not necessary for us. This bill will allow us to save at least one and a half billion dollars next year. In fact, both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the committee think that this economy is going to be bigger. We must approach the fiscal year very economically, saving all our money without narrowing down the social protection of our people. I have a great request for every opportunity to give to those who do not have the capacity to speak 10-20 minutes in order to protect their concept, to allow in a special, special procedure to express themselves to everyone and finally to put a dot, to adopt a bill, revealing opportunities, to form a normal budget for the following year. Thank you to all sincerely and to those who signed the signed letters yesterday regarding the special procedure for this bill. It's really important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u53	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please, the "Fatherland" faction. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we do not really consider the rights that all factions have submitted to this bill. And you know what's so weird about it? Yesterday they voted a decree that essentially destroyed freedom of speech in our country, shut down the Supreme Council, isolated and made some kind of "black hole" that would not give information to society at all. Today, the Special Procedure takes away the right of deputies even to amend. I remember when this special procedure was adopted, it was said that this would be a once - in - a - lifetime procedure just to vote on the Land Sales Act. And now it's made, this special procedure, the standard of living. This means that you have the right of deputies to even apply to those laws that are unacceptable at all. And with regard to this bill, know that this money, about 36 billion dollars, is being invested in the Pension Fund, which is completely deficient, which is deeply defective, and will no longer be protected, and a huge amount of benefits for the working people are being destroyed for the pregnant women that I told you about. This means a violation of the Constitution. We're used to the social committee forming antisocial policies. What are we going to do? We do three things. First. We're going after this bill to the Constitutional Court. Sooner or later this dark beesy will end, and people will have to return everything they have today. The other one. At the end of this month, on the 27th and 28th, I am meeting with the head of the International Labour Organization in Geneva, and we have gathered the entire history of this disgrace and we will protect Ukraine, including through.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u55	Please, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, "Platform for Life and Peace." Ladies and gentlemen, after this, we shall proceed to the vote on this matter. Please take your seats. Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u57	Please, National Deputy Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I am listening to these big speeches, yes, and I have the impression that those who have not read this law are speaking. Dear colleagues, this is no way to deceive society. I'm the author of this law, so I'm going to explain it to you. We are now collecting the only social contribution and the task of the state: the only social contribution is to have the only social insurance fund and payouts, which is a normal European norm. Next question. You screamed the same way when we introduced an electronic hospital leaf. So let me tell you, an electronic hospital list, and now all citizens know it, it's based on a platform of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, it's 70 percent of the overall activity of this fund. It is now being developed on the platform of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to study this part of the game. I understand your interest in professional sanatoriums, in the theft of the funds of this fund. But think first of people. Today, there are 3 billion bills of hospital bills. The adoption of this law eliminates this debt at the same time. Yeah, you're used to these drinking trips in sanitariums and all, think about people first. I call for this law to be voted on. This is the absolutely right law, this is the law that the IMF is supporting today, this is the law that is being upheld today by all European societies. See how in Germany, see how in Poland. So let us take European examples, not our own Russian, Asian examples, as they are done. Let's live in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u59	Thank you. Let's take another minute, the Tsabbal, and then we'll go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, it is a good thing that even in times of war, we can allow ourselves to make reforms that we did not have the opportunity or the desire to do before the war. It was good that the lack of funding for the various funds finally suggested that these funds were unnecessary, that they needed to be pooled into one fund with the same function, the same tasks, financed from one source, and actually duplicated the function. All normal government authorities in developed countries try to avoid duplication of functions. It took a long time and a good thing we got to him now. That is why we support this law and encourage all other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Once again, let's move on to making a decision. Pursuant to article 119 with a prim badge. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules on voting the proposal of 156 Ukrainian national deputies to apply a special procedure for the second reading of draft legislation, registration number 3663, amending the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:09]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions. Pursuant to article 119, p. The Rules of the Supreme Council are requested to send letters of specific proposals and amendments to the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, with specific proposals and amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. Thank you, colleagues. The subject has been considered. Let's move on. Next bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a letter from all the leaders of the factions and groups who have requested that the agenda of the day be brought to the table today and that I should consider and take a decision on the bill amending Chapter II of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Office Act on the establishment of restrictions on the appointment of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in connection with the introduction of the state of war (registration No. 8003). Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session. Once again, this is an initiative of all without excluding factions and groups. Please vote. [[11:03:40]] For 289 I propose to take the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the bill at this plenary session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:04:05]] For 291 Decision taken. I'd like to make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure, Bill 8003. Please vote. [[11:04:28]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed, two in favor, two in favor, and we vote against, right? Can we do so without discussion, fellow workers? Author David Georgiyovich as author. We welcome David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the resonant bill, but we need to explain its logic. Logic is very simple. At the start of the war, a great many people left the country, someone left at their own request, someone just ran away. And now, at the end of September, we're starting the NAB competition, and we want to support the idea that those people who left the country at the most difficult time can't be candidates for such high positions. This does not apply only to the NAMA. I hope that we will continue to support all initiatives on the DBR, on the BBB and on all the law enforcement agencies, because this is very important. That's why I'm asking you to support me. It's a very short bill, very important to be the principle of justice in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u63	Thank you, David Georgievich. Honorable colleagues, well, just sign up: two for, two for, and go to the discussion. Sign up, factions, groups: two in favour, two in favour, and then we vote in favour of this bill. Please, Laba Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u64	Please move in order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u65	Thank you. Cuba's Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, please give the voice to Irina Fryz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u67	Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, this bill is actually an attempt by the majority faction to save a good face in a bad game. We all know the noise of the 7654 scandalous bill. And now, in order to mix the last draft of the G7 ambassadors, who stressed that the bill carries legal risks and uncertainty, there is a new bill that also creates legal risks and uncertainty, especially for women who are experts who have had the opportunity and have gone abroad, but under this law they will no longer be able to submit for participation in a competition on the head of the NAB. I would like to point out that this bill is equally discriminatory in terms of experts who would like to submit in the future, but in the course of the war they now had the opportunity and the necessity to leave. In view of this, I would advise the majority, using my ability, to introduce a bill that simply limits the terms of the competition, because today they are timeless, and we will have the same disgrace as the appointment of the head of the SAP, who has been assigned to the competition for almost two years. Therefore, it is better to limit the terms of the competition rather than play with discriminatory rules for the appointment of the NABU head.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u70	Please give the floor to Mr. Yvchenk Vadim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u71	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u72	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear David Georgiyovich, you presented an appropriate bill and an appropriate initiative. I suggest we move on. Today, officials who have left the country in the first days must be released. Local councillors who have left their communities should be released. Or they may not be allowed to travel for the following periods and for the subsequent summonses. Local leaders and leaders of OTG who have left their communities must be released. Law - enforcement officials who did not perform their duties and who left their positions in the first days should also be released. This is the right initiative. And I'll tell you, colleagues, this initiative will definitely benefit those who have gone to protect Ukraine, who are standing in arms today. They'll come back after the war, the lawyers will come back after the war, the military, other people with professional skills, and they'll claim positions in that country that they were defending with guns in their hands. So, Mr. David, I suggest that the next initiative of 20 numbers, when we gather, should be complex, by all those officials, the heads of local self-government, the deputies of different levels. This is both my personal proposal, and the offer of the Fatherland faction, we discussed this today. This bill we support and thank for such initiatives are good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u73	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuryovich, MP's "Trust". And, dear fellows, after that, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Trust MP Group has expressed great concern that the crime situation has been deteriorating over the past 2-3 months in the country. Today, we are deeply concerned that even the achievements of our law enforcement officers, which were aimed at combating the spread of drugs, to fight criminal groups, and I could now call a whole series of directions that we could say at the beginning of the year that we have a certain success, a situation today that is worsening in the country as a whole. These include issues related to the fight against corruption. And that means that, in general, the bodies that have to fight these phenomena, or lose their power, their authority, or are in the stages of finding effective ways to show positive results. This includes the National Anticorruption Bureau. And not the question of our foreign partners' demands. We ourselves realize that better people should be taken away. And today, let's face it, an indicator of someone who has been acting since the beginning of military aggression, who's been in the country, standing at the wheel, who's been doing everything to keep order and calm, is extremely important. That's why the "Trust" MP group will support this bill. Regarding Yvchenka’s initiative, our colleague, she is also perfectly just and needs to be developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's still National Deputy Nestor Ivanovich, isn't it? Burmich? Please, Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! The MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" support this law. But I wanted to say a few words that there was no need to adopt such an important law. Why? Because at the selection stage, all these questions can be solved easily, not just for 21 days. Perhaps if a person left at the beginning of the war for both five days and six days, depending on the motives, they too could not be assigned. So I think that these issues need to be addressed in a transparent way at the selection stage and everything, and we don't have to waste our precious time in the Supreme Council. Nevertheless, we support this law and hope that it will affect the effectiveness of the work of the N.A.U., which unfortunately is not working very effectively today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, here's Nestor Ivanovich Schufric, one minute, and we'll go to the vote. Who? And Klimenko is one minute. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! It's a shame that we're looking at this issue today only in a segment of individual assignments. I fully agree with all those who have spoken, and I say that this should extend to a much larger number of officials who have fled Ukraine today. Tell you the truth, do you think we've just been here since the first day of the war? But we provided the quorum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, especially on March 4. And we're working now for unity. And I think those who now oppose the authorities are sabotagers. Therefore, today’s law must be upheld, and unity in this room is the guarantee of our victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u79	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna. And then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Julia Leonidina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, we thank you very much for listening to our suggestions and yet you have changed the text of the bill in comparison to the one that came into the first reading and registered a truly worthy bill. That's why we certainly support you, we support this bill. And all together, I propose to vote quickly for him in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. So I'm going to put two proposals: the base, and then the whole. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter II of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Office Act on the establishment of restrictions on the appointment of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in connection with the introduction of military status (Registration No. 8003). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:16:00]] For 289 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter II of the Ukrainian Act on National Anti-Corruption Bureau to impose restrictions on the appointment of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in connection with the introduction of military status (Registration No. 8003) as a whole. Please vote. [[11:16:43]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Guys, let's move on. The next bill, 7655, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the payment of advance taxes on income from enterprises for structural units that trade in monetary values in cash. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:17:24]] For 254 Decision taken. We agreed to a discussion. Is there a need to discuss, fellow believers? Yes. Yes, write down: two-in-a-two-against, those factions that want to discuss. Please give the floor to Ukrainian national deputy Friz Irina Vasilovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u83	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u84	I don't know why the authors' hands have reached the points of exchange, but I have a very simple explanation. It seems to me that this initiative is linked to the lack of understanding of how through the administration of interchangeable items to achieve results because the authors seem to be paying too little taxes. To your understanding, this applies to the exchange rates of non-bank financial institutions. After this initiative, aside from the fact that the association sent some calculations, it tells us that the market doesn't even exist at all right now, you know that the exchangers didn't work, and what the authors have suggested that they pay 19 thousand 500 for today's advance payment every month, from a financial point of view, they can't. So what happened next? The market responded immediately, and some banks approached these exchangers with an offer to work under their protection and pay them some money for covering up this exchange point. In fact, others said that they didn't want to work for anyone at all and would not go under the protection of such banks, and they would just shut up and work in the shadows. This is what the authors are now proposing in the form of billions of additional money being raised there. If you are in favour of manual regulation to destroy the system that works, you can vote in favour of this bill. I'd like to think ten times about what's going on. Fiscal methods do not produce any positive results for the budget. Picking up money may be the first month someone will pay. But when 600 points of exchange have been calculated as being corrupt and not paying 19,500, imagine that all of these 600 points of exchange will work in the shadows. That's the kind of decision you're about to make. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u85	Please, Schwaczko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." The Gethmans, that's what I understand. Yes, please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u86	Sometimes when you listen to the opposition, you want to get a paycheck out of your pocket and help those orphans who today seem to be working "in white" and then work "in the shadows." I don't want populism and I don't want slogans, I want to talk in numbers. We now have 38 non-bank financial institutions working in the area of currency exchange. That's 4,000 points. Do you know how much money they paid to the state in 2021? 7.1 million dollars. Out of 4,000 points. Are you saying they work in white? Could they be working in the shadows already? And they've never worked in white. In doing so, each of these points, according to the National Bank, will buy and sell 8 million dollars a month. Eight million dollars a month. It's at marginality or front of 1 percent -- 80 thousand dollars. Eighty thousand dollars a month. Not counting what's exchanged in black. I won't talk about war, I won't talk about the army. You don't need these passwords right now. Let's talk about peace time. Is it normal for an entire branch to pay as much as 7 million dollars to the budget? We've offered an advance tax on the income of three minimum wages. The advance contribution, which we are ready to discuss for second reading, is ready to be discussed in numbers. But this is a totally unacceptable situation: In a war - torn country, a sector that receives income from exchange rate fluctuations does not pay taxes. Please fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u87	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Of course, we have to take responsibility for this issue, it's contradictory, but we're going to follow the principle of the interests of our citizens. From this point of view, we must speak out of the principle of mutual trust and vote accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. You won't, will you? Thank you. And we have also asked for the word of Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. But before I give it to Jaroslav Ivanovich, I'm going to ask the people's deputies to come to the hall, because then we're going to vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Until then, Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to look at the balcony, you will not see the cameras. Yesterday we voted that we did not show. So this is our whole discussion, it's inside, and we can really probably keep it professional enough. Is it normal for us to have 4,000 points to pay 7 million taxes? Well, it probably shouldn't be. Perhaps all of us understand why they avoid taxes there. Is it okay with what the drafters proposed in the first reading? No, it's not. Well, it's just a simple argument that probably the exchanger in the Pechersky district and, of course, the exchanger in Žaskov are different amounts and it's going to need differentiation. And I guess that's definitely where we have to cut the stakes. If you even look at Nazbank, the volume of the sale of the currency there, you probably don't see it in the camera, but it's gone down. That's why we have to be smart. So in the first reading, we're voting, the working group, we're working on the second reading so we don't kill the market. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u91	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion of this matter. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please take your seats with respect. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft law on the introduction into the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the payment of advance taxes on the income of enterprises for structural units that trade in monetary values in cash (project registration number 7655). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:26:06]] For 247 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to the draft just adopted on the basis of the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:26:34]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill. Don't split up, we agreed without discussion, we're voting now. This is 7738: a draft Resolution on the report of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on investor protection. I propose to accept the entire draft Ordinance on the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of investors (registration number 7738). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:27:19]] For 301 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill to be discussed is 7649: a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to simplify the mechanism to participate in the mandatory state pension insurance. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:27:55]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a need for discussion, isn't there? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Mikhailuk Galina Olegovni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u92	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u93	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u96	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, the National Deputies! We had a discussion on this bill on the committee. First of all, I want to thank the author, a very interesting initiative, she gives the right to citizens who have reached the age of 16 and who are not part of the pension scheme, they can open accounts for third parties and pay pensions under the Pension Fund agreement. It's a really interesting, extraordinary offer. It, by the way, exists in some European states, but it needs to be further developed into second reading, because there are a number of questions of logical, legal, who have the right to open and make such a deal, which is the relationship with the person on which this account is opened, which is the maximum amount, whether it is money laundering, or whether it is not money laundering, so that we do not violate a number of international agreements. But really, the topic is relevant, because many citizens, for example, who work abroad, are willing to finance the pension contributions of those citizens who are close and just relatives who live and live in Ukraine. The Fatherland faction supports this bill in its first reading and will be actively involved in its work and in its second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, "European Solidarity" faction. And, dear fellows, after that, let's move to the vote, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Alexeiovich Hotcharenko, do I understand? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u98	Yes, please hand over the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u99	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, there are some strange laws that we have begun to adopt, as if the law of one and some strange language. For example, what's the point of getting out of control, controlling your dirty money, please tell me? Why would you put it here? Why should it be here? I don't understand it at all, and I don't think anyone understands it. We've just made strange decisions to limit the number of those who want to, the composition that can claim to be the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Are we working against someone in particular? What kind of story is there, 21 days, someone's leaving, not leaving? The woman has taken the children abroad, is she not to go to the director of the U.S. Attorney's Office? What's the problem? We're doing some weird things under specific people right now, putting mines under the law, including human resources competitions on the NAB. Stop doing that, it's wrong. I understand that maybe someone thinks that if the Supreme Council is not shown, anything can be done here. But, no, friends, let's show, let's tell, let's explain. Stop doing that. What is discrimination? What are some of the strange standards that are inserted and found in laws that are unknown from where? Guys, I'm coming to you. Let us remember that we are the Supreme Council, and Ukraine, even in times of war, is a parliamentary-presidential state, and we have a huge responsibility to uphold human rights, the rule of law and democracy in this country. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly, repeatedly in the history of Ukraine, demonstrated that it is capable of doing so at the most critical moments, and we have demonstrated this with you in March, February, April months. Friends, let's go back in those days in our sense of role and preserve the rule of law, democracy and human rights in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to simplify the mechanism of participation in compulsory state pension insurance (project registration number 7649). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:33:36]] For 275 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7649. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:34:01]] For 258. Decision taken. Next Bill 7322. This is a draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the recognition by participants of hostilities of persons who have taken direct part in the implementation of measures necessary to protect Ukraine, protect the security of the population and the interests of the State in connection with the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and other issues. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue 7322 by a reduced procedure. [[11:34:45]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against it. Oh, the author. Please invite the author, Ukrainian national deputy Trelyakov Galina Mikolayovna, to report on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u101	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Actually, it's an unforgivable bill, just as you and I adopted a bill in 2019 to grant the status of a participant in combat to volunteers who protected our borders in 2014, 2015, 2016. Since February 24, when a large - scale invasion began, not all the boys and girls have been able to account for the terror that became part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And so the first draft of this bill, you can see it on the web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I wrote as an author, I proposed a mechanism -- two months. Since the beginning of February 24, those who have failed to account for the ability of the Ministry of Veterans to grant them, or the inter-ministerial commission that works on the basis of the Ministry of Veterans, have been given the status of a participant in combat more than that and in cases where they have died. For example, during Butchi, I think Mr. Pavelenko Yuri can tell this story, this is his constituency when the boys died, but they didn't make it to the U.S.S.A. Such a situation continued for a short time. I think less than a month, and according to Genstab's information, including. And you and I must give what is due to those who have protected our country. The second edition was in line with the Ministry of Defence, and we need to work with you on second reading to develop a mechanism that we need to identify the people who fought our freedom. It won't be easy, but the committee is ready to have a discussion on our base, and what's more, we've already joined the Ministry of Defense. Those boys who are still alive, they are today at the hands of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and they are urging us to adopt this law in order to honor the memory of those who fought side by side in the defense of our Motherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u103	Thank you, and please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u104	Please, Sophia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u105	Dear Society, first of all, I would like to point out that the idea is generally correct and that, in order to give status, certain status to those who have fought and fought for the Ukrainian state without being part of any military or military formation. But in this case it appears here. This bill establishes a huge corruption component, according to which a participant in hostilities can be recognized at any time in any way to be good will, so to speak, by outsiders. And even the GNEU points to this, and it's already in the amended bill that it's deprived of legal certainty as to the circumstances in which it can clearly determine the status of the individuals in question, it's not clear where the measures are being taken. Appropriately, this serves as a groundless expansion of the circle of persons who claim to be part of the fighting. I'll also remind you that we have a status as a participant in a war, which is to be considered in the same way, and in most cases it can be given to those people who have been directly occupied or because of situations that we had in Hostomela, Butch, Irpen, and Mariupola. Next thing you know, this bill doesn't have any categories of people who don't go in and out of volunteer formations, but they have documents that testify to their interaction with the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I would also like to stress that this bill provides for an incredible complexity in the formal status process for volunteers. So in fact, lawyers and analysts are recommending that this bill be returned to the first reading so that we can continue to bring quality material to the session room that will not lay the foundations of corruption and some uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u106	Please, Labazuk Sergey Petrovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the subject of the bill is extremely important today, but we must also be responsible for the fact that we have more and more of the bills registered every day, and then we will have to implement them. And the bigger the category and the number of people that need this support, the more we need to understand that this support should be the right level then. That's why the Party for the Future group, of course, supports all the military or those involved in any kind of combat. But we think that this bill can be supported for second reading only after full and quality refinement and, of course, consultation. So we're supporting it in the first reading, if we're reworking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u108	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Of course, the bill is extremely important. It's important from the point of view of today. It is important in terms of justice — social, military — in terms of our moral obligation to those who defend our country in one way or another protect our territories. That's why we support the idea of adopting this bill. The only thing we have to ask the authors, the expert group that has to work hard for the second reading, is to take into account the many points that our colleagues have already talked about. I want to say that especially the issue of giving orders from heads of military and civilian administrations or other officials who have the right to do so. It has to be formed, legalized, so that they can prove it to those who claim to be part of the fighting. There are still a number of points that need to be worked out. The "Trust" MP joins this job, we will definitely vote, these people have to get right from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u110	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. And I'd like you to invite the national deputies to the hall, and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u111	Pass the word Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u112	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, this bill is actually very important in terms of justice. In fact, in the early days of a full - scale invasion, beginning on February 24, very many Ukrainian boys, girls, women, men took up arms and went to defend our land, our sovereignty, and our independence. And not all have been able to enter either into the ranks of the U.S.S.S.A. or into the terror and other units of the U.S.S.S.A. Accordingly, many of them, unfortunately, have also died defending Ukraine, and their families are not currently able to afford that just social assistance and social security from the state. So I strongly urge you to support this bill. Of course, he needs some work on second reading, and we are also ready to join. But I asked the authors, in particular the appropriate committee of profile, not to delay the adoption of this bill, because its relevance is actually very and very large, and that we should make every effort to accept it as soon as possible in the second reading. We will support and encourage everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Excuse me, Pauline, yes, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The initiators of the bill were, in particular, voluntary formation, the Irpine Company, which, as of March 15, is already part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But between February 24th and March 15th, when they were volunteers and in no way were very much in tune with the military, but they did a great deal of what they did to protect the Kiev and didn't take over completely Irpine and Butch, and during this period, by March 15th, of the 44 guys they lost 16. And in fact, this law is primarily aimed at restoring justice to those Ukrainians, to those Ukrainian citizens who became armed without the possibility of being mobilized for organizational or other reasons, because at that point, the soldiers in some cities were simply not working anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u116	From the Servant of the People, one minute is Anatoly Dmitrovich Ostapenko. And then, dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. National deputies, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u117	Good afternoon, colleagues! The adoption and implementation of the bill will create more favourable conditions for ensuring the rights and interests of Ukrainian defenders and protectors and their families. This will be primarily for those who have been disabled and for families who have lost their loved ones. At a meeting of the committee, Bill 7322 was added to the agenda. are proposed to include in the order of the day’s eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and to accept it as a basis and proposed with reduced terms. If the Council decides on the full program to consider it, we are ready to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u118	Thank you. I'm going to put two -- how the Council is going to determine. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the recognition by participants of hostilities of persons who have taken direct part in the implementation of measures necessary to protect Ukraine, protect the security of the population and the interests of the state in connection with the Russian Federation’s military aggression against Ukraine and other issues (project number 7322). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:47:01]] For 315 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7322. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:47:28]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the last draft bill today is 7636: a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to restore the land rental system and improve land protection legislation. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:48:04]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, should we discuss whether we should vote? Yes, yes, then: two for, two for, please sign in. Well, there are factions that want to express themselves -- the holy right of each faction and group. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u120	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u121	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! As far as this law is concerned, there are a lot of normal thoughts there and pretty good ideas there, but there are a lot of observations at the same time. That's why "European Solidarity" is not going to support this bill in the first reading. But if these shortcomings are further developed, of course we will consider the possibility of support. As far as just a few of these are concerned, I can read it for you. Well, first of all, this bill makes some sort of agreement on the production of biomethane, because it states that the land of agricultural destination should already belong to biomethane, which is part of the production, processing and storage of agricultural products. The question is, however, that according to the Land Code, only the land provided for the production of agricultural products, not for processing, is concerned. Another story. Somehow this bill, which refers to, and by the name of, look at the name, the lands of agricultural destination, is defined as the order of redemption of land (pay attention!) a non-agriculture assignment. Well, if you want to regulate this, please create a separate law, register and move forward. How agriculturally they want to solve other things, I don't understand. Third moment. It really has several points that seriously violate the Constitution of Ukraine. I won't stop in detail anymore, but they're really serious there. Well, the GNEU's conclusion speaks for itself. That's why once again, we don't support it in the first reading, but if it works out for the second, we'll consider supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u122	Please, Lyubota Dmitry Valeriovich, faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Nikita Marina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u124	Please, Marina Nikita.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill. In March, under extremely difficult conditions of war, we adopted a simplified arrangement for land leases in order to save the sower. At that time neither the Earth cadastre nor the Register of Things’ Rights worked. To date, the government has been able to restore both the cadastre and the register. And we can go back to the previous order of land leases that went into effect before the start of the war. And as for the fact that in order to save agriculture and the economy in general in the context of the state of war, we have to give the processing of agricultural products all possible privileges, and this is also laid down in this draft law. Thank you. Everything else we're working on is the second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u127	I won't waste your time. We vote yes in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u128	Thank you. Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, group "Trust". And your honors, after that, let's move on to making a decision. I invite the deputies to take their seats. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u129	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. The position of the group is as follows. The bill is extremely important, and I agree with my colleagues that we all remember a period when in the first months of military invasion and aggression, civil registrations and property rights, and the Earth cadastre, and we had problems, I mean primarily the citizens who were forced to change their temporary residence, who were trying to own new places. And there were questions about land use, property rights, and so forth. Therefore, we welcome the adoption or preparation of this bill. I'm not going to take a deep look either. Those norms that have been set, the core key 8 positions, are all needed by the nations today and are needed by the people. We agree that they still need to be worked on before the second reading is interpreted more clearly. In general, the "Trust" MP will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the renewal of the land lease system and the improvement of land protection legislation (project number 7636). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:54:03]] For 268. Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading on the newly adopted bill 7636. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:54:34]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and the final question for today is 7695, this is a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of reasons for under-receiving government and local budgets as a result of the inefficient activities of the State Forest Resources Agency, its territorial authorities and its enterprises within its sphere of administration. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:55:19]] For 193 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion or can we vote? You don't have to? Should we put it to a vote? Let's vote, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you want to talk? Two for, two for, or a reporter? The author. Please invite Mikolayovich Tishchenka, author of this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, congratulations! While in charge of the Zacarpathian Party Center, I have received numerous appeals from citizens and continue to receive them further from the corruption component of businesses. illegal logging. So in accordance with part four of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of article 87 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I urge you to support the initiative to conduct a transparent investigation into issues of social interest. At this critical time, we are obliged to preserve the resources of the State. I warned many times that I would turn on the searchlight. I believe that we as the President's team, as MPs elected by the people, cannot simply sit outside while our country is being robbed. Our young boys are being robbed at a time when they give their lives for each of our new mornings. I don't want to be a populist, and I don't want to share information with you about how overwhelming this is for future generations, because this is where the fate of Ukraine, including the conservation of forest resources, is being resolved. In this regard, I propose the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters related to the investigation of facts. In addition, a temporary investigation commission is scheduled to consider the status of forest management. So, dear fellows, I ask you to do your duty to the people. Praise the volunteers of Ukraine! Hail ZSU! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u132	Heroic glory! Thank you. Mikola Mikolaiovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Sign up: two in, two in. Colleagues, I'm going to ask you to stay still, and then we have to vote an urgent signature, because we've passed a lot of important laws so that we can sign today. Sign up for the talk on this important subject. Andrew Mikhailovich Herus, please, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Igor Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u134	Igor Krivoschev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the ruling states that there is no member of the Committee on Environmental Policy in the interim commission of inquiry. Hence, there is some doubt as to how a temporary commission of inquiry may function. Please hold on to this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u136	Please give the word to the Synth of Oleg Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u137	Please give the word to Ivanni Orestovni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u138	Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, while the state insists on creating a monopoly in the face of Ukraine, the Supreme Council creates pseudo-TCC for one person, I think it's purely for the derbyan. So I want to remind you that the TSC is actually that tool of opposition control and all that. I thank my colleagues at the People's Service who said that there is no representative of this TSC from the Environmental Profile Committee. Who's going to figure it out? We have already seen a colleague claiming to be the chairman of this commission at Zakarpatta. So I urge you not to support this decision at all. I'd like to add something else. Yesterday we, no, you colleagues, decided to stop the broadcast even in the record of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You've decided that Ukrainian citizens don't have to know what's going on in this room. But today, colleagues, the "Council" channel during our meeting, and you all told us, it's dictated by security rules, it's dictated by the need for military time. So, right now, just as the Council TV channel was doing a direct inclusion from here of the MPs who were talking about what the Supreme Council had just voted something out of your obviously majority factions. Colleagues, stop this farce, from the TSC and to ban the broadcast of the "Council" channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u140	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Movement Valery Sergiyovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u141	Thank you. May I have the floor to the deputy of Burmich Anatoly Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u142	Please, Anatoly Petrovich Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, it was very right for Deputy Tischenko to raise this question. We know very well that, indeed, forests are being ripped apart, indeed, causing damage to the state, to the interests of the state. But I would like Mr. Tishchenko to consider such a question while the committee is working. You remember, a year ago, perhaps even less, the President instructed a billion trees to be planted. Thus, this question is not being answered to a sufficient extent. And so while I'm working on the commission, I'm asking you to include this question: who's ignoring him, who's obstructing the execution of this important task. The MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" support the initiative to create such a temporary investigation group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u144	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. Then Vadim Evgenovich Yvchenko, and we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u145	During the talk of our colleagues, we have heard many questions that the initiator of the initiative should have answered, and that is why we convey the word to Mr. Mikola Tishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u146	Dear colleagues. Mikola Mikolaiovich, will you take the floor? Okay. Dear colleagues, come on. Well, Mikola Mikolaiovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u147	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, yesterday there was a failed bill supported by the Ukrainian Parliament to prohibit the creation of a state-owned enterprise and the total cancellation of businesses in various areas. We need to protect the woods. Colleagues, we need to do this, including avoid smuggling. So I am addressing the Supreme Council, over 70 members of the coalition signed Decree 7517, which prohibits the government from carrying out such a restructuring. Please let's vote and put a dot. And let the commission look at the smuggling, let the commission look at what is happening today in state forests. But let us vote and not test the nerves of Ukrainian citizens, and we will preserve the Ukrainian forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-07-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Dear colleagues, take your seats, let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the Committee's proposals, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of an Interim Commission of Inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of reasons for under-receiving revenue to the State and Local Budgets as a result of the ineffective activities of the State Forest Resources Agency, its territorial authorities and its enterprises in the field of its administration (project number 7695). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:04:42]] For 131 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension in advance. Please don't spread any information about it again. We work together to win. Glory to Ukraine!
