ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, today our video session will be attended by the distinguished Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Mark Rutte. Please welcome the distinguished Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council, there is the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to the United States of America, Jennes de Mol. Let's say hello, too. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, it is a pleasure to note that the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands resumed its work on 29 April in the capital city of Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to our good tradition, let's begin our work by performing the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, on May 10, 2022, the first President of Ukraine, the First Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the People's Deputy of Ukraine, first, second, third, fourth, First, First, First, First, First, Second, Fourth, First, Second, First, First, First, First, Second, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, Second, First, First, First, First, First, First, Second, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, Second, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, First, Leonid Makarovich, in his defining days for Ukraine, showed governmental courage and claimed that he played a huge role in establishing a modern, independent Ukraine. It was during his presidency that historic State documents were adopted in the Supreme Council: the Declaration on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine and the Act on the Declaration of Independence of Ukraine, adopted all necessary measures for the holding of the U.S. referendum on December 1, 1991. During his presidency, the country acquired the basic characteristics of statehood – the main state symbols (Herb, Flag and Hymn of Ukraine) were established by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please honor the memory of the first President of the independent Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our decisions on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war, and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, on February 24, 2022, at the proposal of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian people and their noble warriors have been firmly and courageously defending our Fatherland, our democratic values from the Russian aggressor. Therefore, according to our tradition, I also ask that we honor the moment of silence of the memory of our defenders and protectors who have fallen into battle for the sovereign, independent, and democratic Ukraine. We also honor the memory of the peaceful citizens of Ukraine who were innocently killed by Russian invaders. The Kingdom of the heavens and the everlasting memory of all those who have perished. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have noted, today the Ukrainian Parliament has the honour to hear the video of Prime Minister Mark Rutte, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Mr. Prime Minister, we highly appreciate the consistent and firm support of Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity on the part of the friendly Dutch people. Thank the Kingdom of the Netherlands very much for providing humanitarian, financial, and military assistance to Ukraine. In particular, it is worth noting your country's decision to provide Ukraine with light and heavy weapons, the determination and purposeful position of the Netherlands on the sanctions against the Russian Federation, the provision of assistance and protection to the many thousands of Ukrainians who have been forced to escape the war abroad. We see the real actions of your country, and they sound louder than any word. Finally, I would like to point out that the acquisition of full membership of Ukraine in the European Union is a strategic course of our nation and a consistent desire of the Ukrainian people. We sincerely look forward to the support of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and your government in granting Ukraine the status of candidate for membership in the European Union. Dear colleagues, I invite the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Mr. Mark Rutte. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the Ukrainian Parliament, the distinguished Ukrainian people! I want to thank you, Mr. Head, for your sincere and warm words to my address, to the address of my country, and for your opportunity to contact the honourable deputies. It's a great honor. From here, from the Netherlands, I would like to tell you one simple thing: my country with you, other members of the European family with you, and that we will be with you, we will not step back on this road until peace, freedom and democracy again prevail in Ukraine and justice will be done. We don't see any other results. I mean, the Ukrainian people can count on unbroken support from the Netherlands, and we will do everything we can to give shelter to those thousands who seek refuge in our country until they can return safely to their families and their families. That week, May 5, we celebrated the day of the liberation of the Netherlands. Each year, we celebrate freedom on the day that World War II restored our freedom from occupation. But this year we had a different feeling because of the war in Ukraine. More than ever before, we have realized that freedom is not given without pay, freedom is given at a high price, and we cannot abandon our friends in this disaster. Traditionally on this day, this day we have free torches all over the Netherlands. This year we had color yellow and blue. So in our hearts and in our minds, we had these colors. A few weeks later, literally before the brutal Russian attack, I walked the charming streets of your capital. Kiev is an ancient historical city. I remember my sense of windlessness in front of the storm that I had survived. People were already preparing for possible aggression, which is what happened and happened soon. And that's what struck me. It impressed the determination of everyone who had to meet, the determination not to give up, the will to win the fight for freedom and democracy, the willingness to fight for Ukraine, if necessary, to the very end. We know that, sadly, we have had to do just that. Russia’s aggression against your country was miserable, incorrigible, and destructive. She was based on a lie based on a lie. And this has led thousands of people to lose their lives, lose their schools, lose their hospitals, destroy their cities from bombing, and flee their homes and homes with their families. Russian military power is extraordinary. And this makes the struggle and courage of the Ukrainian Armed Forces even more exciting in the eyes of the world. Your President, Mr. Vladimir Zelensky, has become the embodiment of this spirit of struggle and courage. Many times, when we spoke to him on the phone for the first week of this war, I wondered if it was the last time we spoke. And that was a terrible thought. So, yes, we are proud of Ukraine, its courage more than I can say in words. It's like David versus Goliath. And we know history, we know who won that scam. President Putin thought he would be able to isolate Ukraine and share the democratic forces of the world with his rapid military victory. But he was wrong. In fact, it was very calculated because it was the opposite of his purposes. The forces of democracy in the West are united more than ever. And there's a very good reason for that. Because this war is a war for the future of democracy, international rule of law. It is the right of a sovereign nation to choose its own course in life. It's about your freedom and our freedom. So this war is a war for our shared future. That's why the collective sanctions imposed on Russia and its leadership are unprecedented in our history. Never before had such a tool been used so quickly, so directly, and with so much volume. And I think we need to do more and as quickly as possible and stop buying Russian oil. I mean, directly, the Netherlands is ready to take this action with our partners and allies without hesitation. I would also like to say that sanctions should be valid until Russian aggression is over and Ukraine’s sovereignty restored. We'll be with you, not retreating to any degree. And of course, the same applies to our transportation of military equipment. The Netherlands is one of many countries that supports Ukraine in this way. This began with antitank and antiaircraft at the first brutal stage of this war. And now in the new phase of the Donbas fight, in the Donbas battle, we're sending you self-propelled artillery tools in 2000 in a joint effort with Germany. With our friends and allies, we will do even more by providing needed help in the new phase of this war, where we need it and when we need it. Again, we are with you, not retreating to any degree. And for me personally, this is every degree that means the future stages of your reconstruction in this war, reconstruction, restoration of justice. When President Zelensky addressed our Parliament a few weeks ago, he spoke rightly about it. He specifically and especially drew our attention to the terrible violations of human rights and war crimes. Sadly, the world now hears about it every day. We hear Russian troops resort to sexual violence as weapons in this war. We hear about deportation, torture, and even the cold-blooded murder of innocent civilians. In order for justice to be done, it is absolutely necessary and imperative to find out the facts, to gather evidence now, to find out the truth as soon as possible. And we in the Netherlands have the Hague as the capital of justice, and we feel a special responsibility for that. That is why the Netherlands sends a large group of forensic experts to Ukraine in close cooperation with the International Criminal Court, so that justice can be done at the right time. The Netherlands knows, we know from our own experience, that in order for international justice to be done to offer justice, we need to be patient. For almost eight years now, we have been completing an examination of Russian responsibility for the MN17 crash near Donetsk, and we are moving toward resolving this issue. I thank my Ukrainian friends for their support in this fight for justice. And here's what I want to promise you. The Netherlands will work as hard as it will work to ensure justice when the incredible crimes are being dealt with, which Russia is now committing against your country and against the brave Ukrainian people. We will not retreat to any degree, no matter how long or difficult our common path may be. So I'd like to finish by saying this. Before this war began, Ukraine was already a valuable member of the European family. And since 2017 we have an official Association Agreement with the European Union. For me, it is clear that these family ties are being strengthened daily. It is essential that the members of the European Union remain united and united in their support for Ukraine against Russian aggression, even if the cost of this support is to be paid. It is important to take advantage, from every opportunity, of expanding the common work between Ukraine and the European Union. And we need to work together to rebuild and rebuild Ukraine in a way that makes Ukraine even closer to the European Union. But today the essence of our position is family, but war must be won, and you will win this war. I want to quote the words of the Ukrainian national anthem: "Thou hast not yet died Ukraine, both glory and will, We Ukrainian brothers will also smile at fate. Our enemies will die like dew in the sun. My lords, my dear brothers, in my side." My dear friends, I sincerely believe that democracy will win, freedom will win, Ukraine will win. Thank you for your attention. And know that we remain with you, not even to the point. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let us once again thank Reverend Mark Rutte for his participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for his strong and powerful support of our nation. Mr. Prime Minister, we hope to see you as soon as possible in our common European home. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine and glory to the Netherlands! [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. Before we begin, today is the birthday of our colleague, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to work. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to give time (up to 3 minutes) for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups before discussing the agenda. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u5	Julia Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u6	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Eight years ago Putin attacked us with his "Russian measure", attacked Ukraine and made his most fatal mistake in history. So far, Russian cancer has penetrated our country for 30 years. It penetrated differently: through political parties, through political projects, through the economy, the business controlled by the Russian Federation, through religion and propaganda of the religious “Russian peace” and the genocide of Ukrainians, which was carried out systematically by the Russian Orthodox Church and the Moscow Patriarchate, through culture, imposing Russian books and Russian pops. Now's the best time to put a dot and cut off Russian tentacles and Russian tentacles from all walks of life. We urge the authorities, the ruling party and parliament to systematically remove Putin's cancer from the Ukrainian body. We have already banned the pro-Russian parties from this House by voting on Law 7172-1. In this Parliament, you and I have passed a number of laws on the confiscation of property belonging to the legal and physical persons of the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, this law has been committed by the President, but today we will consider it in this room, and hopefully we will unlock it. And 28,000 Russian assets will go under the control of the Ukrainian State, and these assets will be filled, including the state budget of Ukraine. It's time to ban the Russian propaganda that the "Russian Peace" is carrying out through the church. Our faction presented draft Law No. 7332 on sanctioning the patriarch Cyril and three other religious leaders of the Russian Orthodox Church. This bill has been passed by the profile committees and can be sent to the hall as soon as possible. It's not about prohibition, it's not about religious prohibitions, it's not about the fight against religious organizations, it's about the fact that these people are working with the FSB, they're serving against the interests of Ukraine, and they're sowing divisions, killings and supporting the genocide of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. We call on colleagues, please take him to the hall, and let's start to clean Ukraine economically, politically, religiously and culturally from the "Russian dimension." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u7	Please, instead of Ivchenka Pavlenko. Please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you to take your jobs, and the level of decibel noise should be much lower. Please, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to the situation today with child politics, with children both during the war and what we need to do after the war. Today, and everyone knows it, 229 children have already been killed, more than 450 injured. From February 24th onward. 2 million children are evacuated abroad or with parents or organized groups, more than 2 million evacuated within Ukraine, and some 600,000 children are now in occupied areas and areas of active warfare. The infrastructure of childhood has been severely damaged, and only over one and a half thousand educational institutions have been destroyed. The government has created a number of children’s headquarters, so that their activities are interconnected and mutually agreed upon. So far, there are warnings about this. They do not deal with the need for rapid changes to legislation and the need for preventive policy as a central body for children. In addition to solving urgent issues today, we need to think, plan, and develop a system of protection and support for children in postwar Ukraine. She can't be old. In Ukraine, there are going to be trials in children's cases or family courts that have to replace the old notion of 'care and care'. And don't let all the roadways of their creation stop us right now, today. All the issues that arise with our children in the countries to which they are evacuated are settled by child courts because they do not recognize the decisions of an outdated Ukrainian body of care and care. The children are returning from the evacuation. will return from the evacuation from abroad, bring a new experience of communication with the social services of these countries, where the social worker is not alone in the population, as is the case in Ukraine, and his task is not to control, but rather to support and protect the family. With this experience, a family with children will return to Ukraine. What will Ukraine offer to war - torn children? The new system should be a system, not a separate department, it must have new elements, new principles, new rules, new relationships, and everything around it should be a child, not a ministerial vertical, as is unfortunately the case today. The need for such changes was determined and created by the Supreme Council of the Interim Child Investigation Commission, which completed its work and recommended the creation of an appropriate central authority, the State Child Rights Protection Service. The prewar problems of children have only increased during the war period. Obsolete and new problems need a systemic solution. That's why the new children's courts, the central executive body, the new tools are what a Ukrainian child needs today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich. Ah, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, in the last meeting of the most popular foreign politician in Ukraine, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has produced a completely accurate formula for a victorious power state: it is free media and it is a strong parliament. Our Armed Forces, which are now being captured by the whole world, is an institution that has the highest support of the state, today protects not only the cherry garden around the house, but the cherry garden around the house in Europe's free Ukraine. And in fact, we have with you, first of all, to unite around democratic values, to protect them together. A month ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine accepted the statement, 361 deputies supported it in support of freedom of speech. And at a time when the world rewards Ukrainian journalists with the most prestigious Pulitzer Prize, unfortunately, there are three Ukrainian professional channels in Ukraine that are being closed down and kicked out of digital language. We call for the immediate correction of this misunderstanding, because free media and a strong parliament are the foundations of a democratic state. Our political team greatly appreciates the unity that these three months have had in the Ukrainian Parliament when we all work under the Ukrainian flag. We're doing a lot of work on all international sites to get Ukraine more weapons, more technical and financial assistance, more sanctions against Russia-country aggressors. And it is clear that more arms and more assistance will be provided that Parliament's influence on control over the use of these funds and transparency of use is enhanced. Together, we need to step up our efforts to get Ukraine to join the EU as early as June of this year. And our political team, the European Solidarity Team, is working on this on all international sites. But, my friends, it is very important to realize that the guarantor of our security is the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and only NATO can provide security assurances. Neutrality under any sauce that we're trying to impose on Ukrainian skeptics to force our hands to push our way out of Euro-Atlantic integration is going to be the greatest historical mistake at this point. Our political team believes that Ukraine's accession to NATO is even more important than Ukraine's accession to the EU. And we're willing to work on that so that we can get the CDC at the Madrid Summit. Excuse me, we welcome Finland, Sweden, who have decided to join NATO, aware of the risks of Russian aggression. But Russia will attack us again and again if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, Group "For the Future." Bondar, yes. Bondar. Then Julia Volodymyrna. And after that, Bacon. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u12	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, now is the most difficult period in the country's life, the wars in the east, in the south, unfortunately, are distracting virtually all of the country's leadership, the government from the real problems in the economy. I want to raise the question that today, too, we need to think about what is a critical import issue, which is the question of restoring the industry, which is to enable our buildings to be restored, our industries to be restored, our towns to be restored and our cities to order in these directions. I want to go to the government and be ready to join the work on creating a list of critical industrial enterprises that need to be restored today, which equipment needs to be adjusted today. And under this program, we need to create special economic conditions so that people can bring in the necessary industrial equipment to restore this sector that will allow for the restoration of houses, other things. Take programs to restore specific towns that are now free. So it's not just building buildings without a concept, without understanding what's going to happen there, so it's building towns under specific jobs, under specific infrastructure, under the future of people going back there, to understand why they're coming back, what kind of work is there waiting for them, what kind of industry is going to be redesigned, it's going to expand, like jobs, what infrastructure projects that are proposals for medium-sized businesses to be interesting to them to come and open up small jobs there. And these two industrial recovery programs, transportation from the east to the center of the country, to the west and to the restart, buying new industrial equipment. For example, in Ukraine there is a lack of glass production that is to be produced today, millions of square feet [million sq m] to rebuild houses, to rebuild other objects that are destroyed today. The production of the building materials that we had previously imported, and today it is possible to import them, these industrial objects, and to build them in Ukraine. It's both jobs and a program to rebuild the country at the same time. I mean, I'm proposing that today, together with the government, we start working on two programs. First. It's the concept of rebuilding all the towns that are today freed, that there will be, how it will be rebuilt, what will be the approach to each particular town and what there will be, what jobs, whether there will be people coming back. And the second. This is a program of reconstruction and industrial development that is essential today for the reconstruction of the country and for the creation of jobs. We have these two programs, I think we should work with the government, concentrate and write. The war is long, and we have to do everything we can to make this country last.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u13	Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, after this Bakunec. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I think today the whole world is looking at how Ukraine is courageously and persistently, together with the army, Ukrainian authorities, the people, protecting Ukraine today, protecting our right to live. But at the same time, dear colleagues, I realize that today there are a lot of important conversations with each other, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in those areas where today there are very difficult consequences of occupation, where there are dismal cities, villages, houses. Today, the situation is so difficult that we need to join together in adopting special programs that can protect people today. First of all, tens of thousands of families were left without a place to live. I've been talking to these people, I think you've been talking to them, too. The problem is that today there is absolutely no clear concept of how to protect these people where they live today. There is no program that appreciates the state of their dwellings today and allows them to restore at least a little to the fall what can be done. There is no powerful program today, since the Law on Unemployment has not yet been signed to give those who have not received the right to work today the immediate, immediate, certain benefits that will enable the family to survive. Today is a challenge for us on the front, but a challenge today and in the back, because many people do not have practical access to normal life. And I would like the next session to take a close look at why and how these people need to be protected and why they are not protected. I would ask that we pay particular attention to this discussion. I want to believe that you and I see how the economy works. Look at the agrarians, they haven't sold the grain completely. And we need to fill the state reserve today, set up a food reserve for Ukraine, and at least 50 percent of the grain will be bought into agriculture. Let's focus with you now on how every Ukrainian lives today in our country, and try to support them, our production, our crops, entrepreneurs in this difficult time. They need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, we have two announcements about parliamentary life. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the reduction in the number of members of the political party's parliamentary faction, "The Opposition Platform for Life" below the number of the smallest parliamentary faction registered at the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly, I report the dissolution of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". And according to part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the decision of the member group "Trust" of 03.05. In 2022, I report the exclusion of the members of the MPs of Ukraine, Jefimov Maxima Viktorovich and Kovalova Aleksandra Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final performance. People's deputies please be invited to the hall. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, Deputy Group of Trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, the honorable military leadership, the national MPs, our brave soldiers! Today, it is imperative that we express our thanks to our defenders and our defenders, who, at the risk of the most precious, protect us, our border guards, our fighting brigades, our territorial defenses, because it is you who are the reason that we, everyone in this country, can work. And while our military at various eastern, southern, northern borders are protecting our land, we need to work hard with you to help our army, first of all, to provide for those who are now on the front, our borders: The Chevalry, the Mostish, the Jaborisht, all the border I represent, I have great honour, sent upon the front a vast number of brave, brave warriors who stand and defend our land. These are battle brigades, both royal 24th, 80th, 63rd, and territorial defense forces, because the national lift is so great that people who recorded their homes in their own areas are even going to defend themselves on the front. That's 103 brigades, 101st, 66 battalions. They courageously drive, carrying out their most basic duty of protection. But today, from this high rostrum at the command of our communities, at the request of the families of our military forces of territorial defense, their women, their mothers and children, we call upon the General Staff, the Ministry of Defense to pay attention to these courageous soldiers, both from the military brigades, and especially from the territorial defense force, who defend our lands in battle positions to help them with their ammunition, so that they can have something to expel an enemy from our homeland to ensure their safe location. This must be noted. We also call on our international partners to continue to assist us with an even greater number of weapons of military ammunition so that we can get this long-awaited membership of the European Union in the near future. We clearly believe that thanks to our partners, our work, our courageous advocates, and our protectors, have chosen this long - awaited victory. Praise the Armed Forces! Glory to the Force of Territorial Defense! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that the time for speeches is up. Now we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. But before we go to the agenda, I would like to report that the vote is being conducted by the Ukrainian people's deputies by means of a sensory button. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take part in the signal vote, press the "yes" button. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button and press the green pros button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the vote, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, ready for a signal vote? Dear colleagues, I ask you to hold a signal vote. Please vote. [[12:44:32]] For 246 We're working. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, are given to you. I remind you that we are continuing to consider in the second reading of the bill (registration number 7269) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status on the functioning of local self-government during the war period. Dear colleagues, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I received a letter from the leaders of the MP factions and groups with written suggestions for a bill (registration number 7269) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status on the functioning of local self-government during the war period. Taking into account the proposals made by the deputy factions and groups set out in this letter, I will put to the vote the proposal to give a mandate to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters relating to the organization of state authority, local self-government, regional development and the construction of the bill immediately to prepare registration number 7269 for re-reading, taking into account the written proposals of the deputy factions and groups for its consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, once again, one more minute. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I have a letter signed by factions and groups regarding the fate of Bill 7269. I now propose, in accordance with these proposals, that we stop this discussion, we should vote twice on this bill. For the first time, I'm going to take a second reading, as the committee suggested, the factions and groups are not going to support it. Then I put to the vote the second reading again, and the factions and groups are proposing to support it. And then we're going to vote again on the things that are written in the letter of the leaders of factions and groups. Do you have a deal, colleagues? So I'm going to make the first proposal that's set out in the committee's decision. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status on the Functioning of Local Self-Government during the Wartime (registration number 7269). Please identify and vote. [[12:47:27]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to propose that the committee be returned to work on the second reading. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:58]] For 333 Thank you. Dear colleagues, and the final vote. Taking into account the committee's proposals. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters relating to the organization of state authority, local self-government, regional development and construction to prepare the Bill of Registration No. 7269 for re-second reading, taking into account the written proposals of the deputy factions and the groups set out in the letter, for its consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, May 12, 2022. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:48:50]] For 335 Decision taken. Please comply with this urgent commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill we have is a draft law. One second, this is Bill's registration number 7264. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that under this bill, everyone will withdraw their amendments, we give the word of Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko five minutes, and then we vote in favour of this bill. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Please, Julia Volodymyr. Oh, that's not it. Okay. Please come to the Voice, then. Julia Volodymyr, please have a five-minute performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, in fact, we wanted to try today's meeting of the Supreme Council as a team to achieve certain compromises, like to vote on bills that have no consensus. And in order to work effectively, we've decided today to focus on explaining that this bill on amending other laws on unbreakable production and supplying agricultural products during the war (underlining the state of war) is highly questionable. It is doubtful that this product, which will be imported into Ukraine, is agricultural, that it is fertilizer and many other things that apply to agriculture, they are here, provided for in this law, will not be certified, will not undergo any proper quality control procedures, and including meat, is that it will then fall directly into the pits of our stores. We believe that even during a war state we cannot fail to check the quality of pesticides, herbicides, not check the quality of what will be added to our land, not check the phytosanitary certificates, not check the quality of the produce that is in it at all. I want to say that there is certainly a need to simplify procedures during the state of war, but this cannot be a threat to life, to human health, it cannot be a threat to the quality of our earth at all. And what is important is that we cannot, during the state of war, destroy those requirements that are fundamental to us regarding Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Sadly, this law destroys. Today we have removed the regulations so that we do not interfere with the legislative process. At the same time, however, we will abstain and not vote in favour of this bill because it endangers human life and health. And so I ask the Hall to read this paper carefully, to weigh all the pros and cons, and still try to preserve the system that has been scrupulously built in our country, along with the European Union, which is set up in the Agreement on Association and Free Trade with the European Union countries, and which accurately provides for the protection of human rights. Therefore, I ask you not to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was further informed that one amendment would be valid for confirmation. Do I get it right? And once it's decided, we're going to vote for the bill as a whole. People's deputies please take their seats. We move on to making the right decisions. Who's going to be the fixer-upper? Klimenka, do I understand? A cabal, huh? Please, Cabal Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction supports this bill, and we support that the import of pesticides and agrochemicals should be allowed without registration if they are registered in the countries of the European Union. However, Amendment 7, it goes a little further, it proposes to import without registration not only pesticides and agrochemicals if they are registered in the European Union, but also those where the active substance is registered. What does that mean? What can be imported from any country in the world -- China, India, Brazil, any pesticides and agrochemicals -- if their active substance is registered in the European Union. So this opens up a license for unregistered drugs from all over the world. So it seems to us that we need to go back to the previous version of the law so that only the drugs can be imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, what is the position of the 7th Amendment Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u23	Comrades, good afternoon! Indeed, there are some observations on this point. But I would like to point out that mandatory state registration of pesticides is not required only for periods of war and 90 days after. But if there is a remark in our colleagues, we can place this amendment to confirm the court’s judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, 7 amendments. This is the only amendment that will now apply. Please take your seats. 7th Amendment. She was taken into account by the committee. But colleagues ask her to be confirmed. The committee does not, in principle, object to a decision being taken by the Chamber. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please identify and vote. [[12:55:55]] For-69 Edit rejected. Dear colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, take your seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on uninterrupted production and supply of agricultural products during wartime (project No. 7264). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:45]] For 313 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on. The next bill, we also agreed on the Conciliation Council with colleagues that not all the amendments would be applied. We're giving Julia Volodymyrne five minutes for the performance. As well as Julia Klimenko, some adjustments will be made, two amendments will be made. Three. Well, I'll give you my word, you'll tell me how much. Please. And then we move on to making a decision. Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, Bill 7289, so our team had hundreds of rights to this bill, many rights. But we agreed that instead of our rights, we're just about to make all the remarks to this bill so that you can imagine what this law is and whether we can vote for it. This is a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the specificity of land regulation under military conditions. But what I want to tell you right now is that the anti-market procedures that are laid down in this law on agricultural and non-agricultural land are not only designed for war, they are essentially written so that they can work, including after the end of the war. I want to ask why all these years there have been reforms in the country that have provided for transparent procedures that have predicted that any piece of land in Ukraine will be very transparently transferred to strictly defined directions and that each literally centimeter of Ukrainian land will not be in a corrupt context to pass on to its people, but it will be done as it is in European countries. Of course, war has changed a lot in our lives. But our team would very much not want the war to become widespread for corruption, which would simply be impossible to stop if they were still established by law. And so in this law, when you push the green button, you just know that you're going to rent without any transparent procedures, no land trade, no tenders, no land ownership. I want us to realize that we are essentially ruining the work of the country for the last eight years at least. And everything that we've done together in this Parliament, in this government, at the level of the presidents, to insure the country from corruption, this law is being overturned in land matters. I can also say that there is still such a unique thing to be predicted here. Remember how we all fought for registers and cadastres. So here is the suspension of the work of the State Land cadastre and the decision to restore it after the war has ended. I want to ask you who makes these conditions, and why do you insist in this bill? I would also like to draw your attention, just listen, at least listen to what you're going to vote for. They are expected to be suspended for a period of war plus up to six months for landowners to pay rent. With public land and utilities to pay rent, private landowners, who are also entrepreneurs and who live for this money, have to pay the rent to private landowners. I want to ask you, what are you doing? This will increase the humanitarian crisis that is now taking place in the country many times. It's going to take many more times from the people who have these miserable plots of land, and they're going to take the money they're going to get for rent. This law cannot be adopted. Do not be so indifferent, read what you are offered, and vote, not because someone told you to vote from above, but because you are a public figure, and you are obliged to take care of the state, not about anyone’s lobbying interests. So we're going to vote against this bill and we're going to call on everyone in state positions to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on some amendments to be made by Julia Leonidivna Klimenko, and then we move on to a decision. A few changes now. Julia Leonidina, please. What numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u27	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I won't make any adjustments, give me two minutes and I will. Yeah, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u28	Two minutes, Julia Leonidina. Dear colleagues, in two minutes we will move on to a decision on this bill. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, Bill 7284. I'm sorry, 7289 is definitely necessary, because we're in a state of war, and a lot of government agencies don't work properly. Moreover, we, as a warlord, need to have rapid procedures and construction for temporarily displaced persons and for those who are to be moved from the war zone. We need to actually build a new infrastructure, because every day we get shot at by Russia, trying to destroy our railway infrastructure, port infrastructure, blocking our South Port and port of Odessa and actually paralyzing our exports. But at the same time, we need to find a balance between quickly building, making documents quickly and also not forgetting about ecology and nature, because the regulations that I was making, they applied precisely to not to translate, not to change the quickly-targeted assignment, and not to make rapid urban documentation on ports along all of Ukraine's rivers. As a result of the compromise, we have achieved both with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the Committee on Focusing on the Danube Cluster and developing new ports that will allow us to do more exports at blocked ports, Odessa ports. So thank you for the compromise and the committee for the discussion. And let us vote, and we will quickly rebuild our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, we make a decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of regulation of land under military conditions (project registration number 7289). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:29]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is the first reading. Now, just a second. We need to get into the agenda and make a decision. Dear colleagues, we're going to Bill 7284. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection of members of the military and primary forces and the conditions for civil protection services. We have two votes to take. Therefore, I would like to vote on the inclusion of Bill 7284 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:24]] For 326 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please. [[13:06:46]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed to a discussion: two in favour, two in opposition. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u31	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u32	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u33	Friends, "European Solidarity" on the first reading will support this. There are three positions here. Civil protection may be accepted or contracts with those who have been released for health care may be continued. But it is not clear, for if a person is released in a state of health rather than transferred to another position, is he able to serve professionally in that service? The grounds for civil protection are widening. There are also negative consequences that may have to do with defiance and abuse on the part of managers. The provisions of the Law on one - time financial assistance in the event of death, death, disability, or partial loss of employment are clarified. Without denying the increase in financial assistance in the anticipated cases, we note that the principle of granting it does not correspond to the general principle. The issues that are proposed to be settled at the level of the law should be settled at the level of the law. In other words, I think that by the second reading we will be able to correct these differences. Guys, this is an important law. But let's see how fruitfully and effectively we were able to unite the hall when we saw that the law, which ends at 69 and limited the rights of local self-government, was able to achieve compromise in order for this law to go on re-reading the second reading, and I think it will be done normally. I'd like to ask you all to do everything you can to get anything that denies acceptance. to give us an application in the European Union, as in this law we have removed, so that the three independent channels that were illegally turned off on air, and the committee yesterday became convinced of this, were returned to the air, we became members of the European Union, and we defeated the Russian Nazis in this war together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u34	The word is given to national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u35	Please give the floor to Zimbaluku Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u36	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u37	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! In fact, the bill is very much needed. We see how the Emergency Service, the Civil Protection Service, works today. These are the people who are the first to come in today to eliminate the consequences of situations that occur during the war. These are the people who are doing the exchange today. These are the people who are risking their lives today. And it's very important that this legislative initiative is now in the session room. In fact, as my colleague Princely said, there are extremely positive standards here, but there are also some risks that need to be worked out for the second reading. What they're doing here is making payments to a single person on a certain scale, and it's going to be one central executive body, and it's going to be a risk and there's a corruption component. This should be further developed. There are also serious comments under article 118 of the Civil Protection Code. Because the proposals run counter to the standards proposed for adoption of this bill. The same is true of article 119 of the Code of Administrative Violations. Because of this, the "Fatherland" team on the first reading will support this bill on the basis, and we will work on it on the second. It is vital that those who risk their lives and their families be confident that if threatened, they will be protected by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. The decision is to make it a base. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, as a basis, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection of members of the civil protection service (project No. 7284). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:39]] For 322 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill 7284. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:05]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the following Bill 7371, introduced by the President of Ukraine, is a draft law approving the Presidential Order of Ukraine on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 11 May 2022 to force the removal of property rights of the Russian Federation and its residents in Ukraine. These are the first sanctions that we are considering in the context of the Law we have adopted on the compulsory removal of property items of the Russian Federation, so I ask the honourable MPs with responsibility to address this issue. We agreed to consider this subject with discussion. So I'm proposing to consider the inclusion of Bill 7371 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:10]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner, as we agreed. Please vote. [[13:14:32]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Please sign up: two in, two in. Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u39	Please pass the word to colleague Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u40	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to raise a very important subject. Today, there is not only real aggression, war, but also hybrid war. When the Russian Federation and its descendants try to impose an opinion, including on the West, that it seems today that Putin attacked Ukraine and that Putin is solely responsible for this aggression. That's not true. The Russian Federation and every Russian are responsible for the aggression of a full - scale war against Ukraine, with 85 percent of Russians supporting the war. They were choosing Putin, they were conserving his regime, today they are practicing this ideology of new fascism against Ukraine, and Ukrainephobia is the foundation of today's new Russian ideology. And that's why now you and I are passing an extremely important law on the responsibility of every Russian for this war. Obviously, we must do everything we can to ensure that every Russian bears financial responsibility for the war against Ukraine. And it's very important that our next stage be to fix all crimes, not just those who have come to war, to kill, to rape, but those who have financed this war, and those who have actually sought for decades to support aggression against Ukraine. Not only should sanctions be imposed on oligarhat, not only on the Russian business, but on all Russian media, on all Russian journalists, who are propagandists, on all Russians, who are fully responsible today with their regime for murder, rape, for the theft that is taking place in Ukraine, they must be punished. That's why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u42	The word is given to the National Deputy of the Road of Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Roxolani Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u44	Roxolana, please, Podlasa, Roxolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the Economic Development Committee has supported this bill. That's why I'm asking you to support me as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, the word is given to Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, the Voice faction, and then we go to the vote, your honorary colleagues. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u47	Your Honor, the bill has certainly matured and matured. I want to say that we accepted it in the first and second readings here, but in some wonderful way it showed a lot of the constructive rights given by the President's Office. So I have two calls to our hall. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u48	It's the sanctions we vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u49	Oh, sanctions are wonderful. Then we vote for the sanctions, because there is, yes. The sanctions will only be implemented if you and I defeat the veto and approve the bill. Today we vote 4.5 billion first. I hope that these billions will be much more because, on my request, the Ministry of Economics said that they had a list of 28,000 objects that could be taken to the Russian Federation and transferred to the state budget. Colleagues, that's a lot more than 4.5 billion. So let's quickly overcome the veto, vote on this bill and start filling our budget for the money of the Russian Federation, which has to pay, pay off and pay for every loss they've done in Ukraine, pay our citizens for what they've done in their homes and with their lives. Therefore, their reparations should not end solely with the confiscation of objects. Their reparations should still be at least 50 years old for Ukraine’s reconstruction. Thank you. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this issue with such a brilliant report on this issue. Thank you, Julia Leonidina, for you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. We're voting for sanctions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt as a whole the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree "On the Decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 11 May 2022 on the enforcement of property rights in Ukraine by the Russian Federation and its residents" (project registration number 7371) on the basis of and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[13:20:28]] For 334 Decision taken. It's a wonderful unity. Thank you, colleagues. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I was approached by colleagues from the Legal Committee, who said that there was an agreement with the heads of factions and groups to quickly gather and take decisions on Bill 7317. So I'm giving you this commission to get together immediately so that we can vote today, when we get to it, in the paper you're going to propose to us. Thank you. Please, let's keep going. Dear colleagues, 6173, we go to the next bill, this is also the first reading. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the conclusion of an agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on mutual recognition of qualified electronic trust services and the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of electronic identification. Dear colleagues, I understand he's included in the agenda, he doesn't need to be voted on, so I'd like to make a suggestion to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Bill 6173 is a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:21:52]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we were discussing it, so immediately: two in favour, two in favour. I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhailuk Galini Olegnowni, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u51	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Alexander Fedienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u52	Alexander Fedienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u53	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The draft Law 6173, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, provides for amendments to Ukraine's laws to bring national legislation as close as possible to European requirements in the field of electronic identification and electronic trust services. About 90 laws will be brought into line with European standards. This will enable the digital market from the EU. Our signatures can be used in the EU and their signatures can be used in us. The project will provide a remote identification of an online person without personal presence while obtaining a qualified electronic signature, and will provide a wide range of electronic identification tools such as CardID, MobileID, BankID, SmartID. All of these applications can be used as an electronic signature. At its meeting on January 26, this year, the Digital Transformation Committee approved recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt draft Law 6173 as a basis for first reading. After this adoption, honourable colleagues, I invite everyone to work on this bill. I want to remind you that our course is to move to the European Union, and we demonstrate this in all our steps and victories on the front. Therefore, I would ask your honourable colleagues, despite the factions, to support the bill with their votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u56	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u57	Dear friends, you and I are going to the European Union, and now we have a really unique chance to join it. And what we're starting right now, at this time, is bringing our legislation into line with European legislation -- that's a very constructive moment. But what I want to remind you is that the European Union is not only in form, we need to bring legislation into line, but also, in fact, our actions. Because for every country that joins the European Union, there are Copenhagen criteria, and these are the political and legal criteria that determine that the rule of law, democracy, minority equality, including that is the main thing. And when the European Union sees that today, in principle, we can abuse trust, we will have problems. If they turn off without any legislative justification, it's a problem. If there is a struggle with independent members of the Supervisory Boards, that is a problem. If the government approves the decisions that lead to women being released from banks right now, it's women, it's a problem. And so I'm asking you very much not to abuse unity, not to try to push opposition under the aegis of unity, but to take steps towards the European Union not only in form but also in fact. This will be very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u58	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the MP's Platform for Life and Peace will support this draft law to ensure that an agreement between the European Union is made on the recognition of qualified electronic trust services and the implementation of other provisions of the relevant agreement. I would like to point out that the changes (hear this figure) are made to 74 laws and 6 codes that are appropriate. This is how the individual provisions of the Association Agreement are implemented. I would like to remind you that we still have a large, large majority of the directives and technical regulations of the relevant European Union that make it impossible to implement the economic part of the Association Agreement. And that means that we can't implement all the export potential that we have, which we could implement in terms of our bilateral trade and economic relations with the countries of the European Union, taking into account the current situation in Ukraine, and taking into account the de facto change in integration policy that we actually have since February 24, 2022. So given these significant challenges that we have today, we need to accelerate the implementation of the economic part and the tools that today's legislation needs. This time. The second is certainly a matter of transit, transportation, and in particular international trucking. We must have adequate free and free movement of goods, services, capital and labour to enable us to realize all that economic potential of Ukraine, including in industrial politics and in other areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u60	Please, and the final performance of Kabachenko. Please, Fatherland. And then we move on to the vote, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u61	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland. The aim of the bill is quite simple, absolutely understandable, so that Ukrainian electronic digital signatures are recognized as member countries of the European Union. I mean, obviously, there are no questions at all, and we have to accept that. But unfortunately, this bill is, at best, an extremely crude tool that contains many unspecified terms and norms that facilitate cybercrime. In today’s form, it is not recommended to support it. It is necessary to make corrections to the original edition and to conclude the final conclusion on the second reading. But on the other hand, as colleagues have pointed out, this bill is part of a package of Euro-Integration Initiatives, and the Fatherland faction has always supported and supported Ukraine's integration into the European Union. And so we decided to support this bill in the first reading, provided that our comments were accepted during the drafting of the draft for the second reading. The main points are the following. The bill contains a large number of terms that were simply copied from European regulations. As a result, some of them do not fit in Ukrainian legislation and some of them are fairly structural and key. Secondly, providers of electronic identification services, which are included in the electronic governance system, are obliged to join some system for monitoring the provision and use of services. What is this system of monitoring the provision and use of services? Not a word about it in the text of the bill. And that's why we're going to prepare and apply for the second reading, and in the first reading, we're going to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision-making process. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Honorary colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the conclusion of an agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on mutual recognition of qualified electronic trust services and the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of electronic identification (project registration number 6173). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:30.]] For 315 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of Bill 6173. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:58]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, guys. The next bill, 7251, is also the first reading. This is a bill to amend some Ukrainian laws on labour relations optimisation (7,251). I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. [[13:32:44]] For 289 Decision taken. I'll bet you I'll consider this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:33:04]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two for, two for, two for, two for, a discussion. Please sign up. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u64	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u65	Colleagues, I won't be spending much of your time. We need to vote in favour of this bill, especially since we have a situation where the Labour Code does not actually work. And if we want to preserve our business at any rate, we need to give it freedom in dealing with employment contracts and employment rights in general. So I urge everyone to vote. It's really what's going to help everyone move out of the fighting zone, first; secondly, it's going to take a long time, which is very difficult for business. That's why we're going to vote in favour, which is why I call on everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Leontijovich Bondar, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u67	Please give me the word of Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u68	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u69	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, you know, it's really important for us to support both our businesses and our employees today. Unfortunately, there are positions in this law that are absolutely right, very necessary and right to support our business. At the same time, there are also questions that actually pose more problems than answers. And the language goes, for example, the social standards on vacation, the cuts in these things, and this can be taken negative. Let's not forget that we are with you -- this is definitely a social state, this is our strong side, for us every person is important, for us every employee, every business, every one of us is a protector. We're not the occupying country that gives 5,000 rubles or 10,000 rubles for the killer and takes pictures of moms or widows with these 5,000 rubles, and then, of course, it's just a humane ideology that completely destroys everything. What is more, we see other areas under them being tormented. And the same Abkhazia, and the South, South Ossetia, and the Belgorod region, and Kurskah, and Voronezka. So, my friends, I think we should always show a high level, including our social standards and social commitment, so that those regions that are looking forward to us once they're released, I don't talk about our Ukrainian Cuban anymore. To make them understand that Ukraine is not just freedom, it is also high social standards. So, my friends, I urge all of us, taking into account all the complexities of wartime, to remember the need to support those in need today. Social standards are also our important achievement, and we need to keep it and not give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the Platform for Life and Peace group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, our MP's Platform for Life and Peace supports this bill. Here, as colleagues have already said, there are a number of positive standards regarding the optimisation of working relationships. But there are totally unacceptable things. And I have a proposal for a profile committee to work on between the first and second readings, because there are rules that are not understood from below and in the parliamentary environment. This time. The other one. In terms of working relationships within the country, I'd like to bring up a few figures that, for example, we've had very negative trends over the last 2.5 years. For example, the unemployment rate is based on the International Labour Organization methodology. When we went to the Supreme Council on the basis of the third quarter, we had a 7.3 percent. The figure is now 10.6 percent, or more than 3.3 percent, of the fourth quarter of 2021. These are big figures, and they certainly encourage us or encourage us to modernize, including and optimize the working relationship, which is in terms of simplification, in order to make the employer more comfortable, on the one hand, to form, show and increase the number of employees in the national economy, which will then account for the only social contribution and so on, and so on, other taxes and congregations. The second point that I want to draw attention to, which should also be worked out between the first and the second readings, is that we have an increase in the number of people involved in the national economy. Because in the fourth quarter of 2021 we have a employment rate of 48.3 percent. We're busy if we're only 15.4 million Ukrainian citizens 15 years of age or older. So these two important things, they have to be taken into account in terms of unemployed and employed in the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction, and then we move on to the decision-making process. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u73	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, the bill has some positive standards that allow during the war the very relationship between employers and employees. At the committee meeting, we discussed the norm that the authors suggested reducing the extra leave from 14 to 7 days to participants in the Dignity Revolution, the participants in the fighting. But as a result of the discussion, this standard has been maintained, and the project that we are considering today has an additional holiday of 14 days. But in addition to positive standards, there are standards that will work after the end of the war. That, by the way, makes a note of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. As a result, we believe that the second reading should be further developed in order to ensure that this law acts and normalizes the employment relationship between the employer and the hired worker during the war and does not continue after it has been completed or terminated. Because the "Paternity" team is ready to take part in the second reading, we already have specific proposals. But we will not vote in such an order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Ready? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning labour relations optimization (project registration number 7251). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:03]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for second reading. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:42:30.]] For 241 Decision taken. The factions. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. The following bills. First reading. 5371, 5371-1 is a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify labour relations in small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider these issues in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:43:20]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, two in favor, two in favour. Please sign up with a discussion: two in, two in, two in. Please, Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u76	Three - year - old Galina Mikolayevna Galina Mikolayevna Trelyyakowa
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u77	Bill 5371. I propose to amend the legislative acts of "Work Protection", "For Vacations", to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, on professional associations, their rights and guarantees. And the main change is to introduce in these legislative acts a contractual regime for regulating labour relations with the possibility of self-explanation and mutual consent of the parties to include in the written employment contract a position regarding the emergence/disengagement of employment relations, the system of pay, labour standards, the size of wages. But all of this has to be determined no worse than the Labour Code. The committee has considered this bill and recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Klimenko. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, "The Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, if there are laws that ask us to do business, it's one of the most important. I'm going to be very simplified to explain what I just said to the committee head. We give small, medium-sized businesses the right to apply employment contracts between their employees. So let's just say that it works, that we have small and medium-sized businesses working very often through FOPs, and they have labor there. Well, it's an employment contract. We're legalizing this so that they don't get a hold of Holder and don't get fined 60, 70, 80,000 dollars. And that's right, it works. And I'm asking you to maintain this standard. Another example. We have an IT branch. Now that we have blocked ports, when we don't have exports through many ways, the IT branch has become one of the most important. And if you look at how it works, it actually works on labor contracts. And, I'm sorry, but the salary is $3,000 and there's more than that in the IT sector. So we take these standards, we don't touch large businesses in any way, and we carry them around to do business. Let us, of course, protect the rights of people, of course, to observe European conventions, but let us just look the truth in the eye: we cannot leave the norm of 1993 to the modern world. And if a few examples already in force in our country show that where this de facto works, wages are rising, business is growing, profits are rising, the number of people involved there is increasing, it would be a crime not to support it at the legislative level. That's why we support this bill at least on the basis, and then we're going to work on all the proposals for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u82	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I listen carefully to what others say. And of course, it's very good that liberal norms are offered. Only I'd like to draw your attention to something else. You and I are all now completely deserving and well-founded in calling on the European Union to grant us candidate status, Ukraine. And we should definitely get it, working on Euro-Integration Bills. I want to read you a quote from our committee's decision on this bill. "This bill is contrary to the Association and Law Agreement of the European Union, because it significantly reduces the level of protection of work narrows the scope of workers' labour rights and social guarantees. Colleagues, let's not make mistakes. Let's not narrow down social guarantees, rights, non-discrimination between employees of different businesses, create unfair unfair unfair competition for employers on the basis of these different workers' rights. I ask you to note that, unfortunately, this bill also violates ILO Convention 132, which means that this is another international obligation that will be breached. So I ask you to listen, not to allow this diversion and not to support this bill, which is directly contrary to our Euro-integration aspirations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u84	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to give the floor to the National Deputy Wolin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u86	Please, Deputy Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, while members of the trade unions are volunteering to join the army, we must keep this in mind and be very careful about how aware they are of how patriotic our country is. In this case, when speaking, colleague Klimpush-Cincadze drew attention to the fact that, in our quest for integration into European space, Ukraine's integration into European space, we have to follow European Union directives and adhere to all social standards. In this case, however, the drafters did not notice that it provided for a violation of Convention No 158 of the International Labour Organization, which violated EU directives. Now here's the next one. The European Social Charter has been violated. This bill amends the Trades Act, the Vacation Act, the Occupational Protection Act. I would like to remind you, my dear colleagues, that over the years there has been a complete draft of the Labour Code by Julia Timoshenko and several co-authors. This document has been analyzed by all international standards in the International Labour Organization. He went to the European Commission for analysis at the International Trade Union Confederation. And because of the mistakes that are made in this bill or, for example, 5388 that we have failed with you, this is in this case a violation of all norms and standards, a violation of human rights. Now, look, everything is done to strengthen individual short-term contracts, maybe one day, maybe south, maybe three months. At the same time, such an approach is crossed out as collective agreements that are foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify the regulation of labour relations in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce administrative burden on entrepreneurial activities (registration number 5371). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:52:27]] For 246 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of Bill 5371. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:52:58]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill, 5266. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, I also inform you that the faction leaders and the groups in this bill have agreed to remove all the amendments, and I thank you all for your constructiveness. We invite and we just give Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluku 3 minutes for this bill, and we go to the vote. 5266. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk is three minutes and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u89	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights at its meeting on February 9, 2022, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of workers' rights (registration number 5266), adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 29, 2021, on the basis of (High Council Regulation No. 1761-IX). In accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, 75 proposals and amendments were made to the draft draft for the second reading of the bill, which came from various factions and groups of Ukrainian national deputies. As a result of the consideration of these proposals, a comparative table was prepared for the bill, which contains all the proposals and amendments that have been tabled, including 17, partially, 1 proposal and 57 amendments rejected. The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a statutory bill to be adopted on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you all for discussing this matter. Thank you, Mikhailovich. We're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the seat of the national MP is in the hall, take your seats, and we will proceed to the vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of workers' rights (registration number 5266). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:55:49]] For 277 The law is passed. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask. Colleagues from the committee who reviewed Bill 7269 are already loaded? Not yet. Then let's move on. Thank you. 7282. This is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on first-hand measures to reform the city’s sphere of activity (7282). I would also like to inform and thank the members of the Conciliation Council that they have withdrawn all their amendments to this great bill. We agreed on a five-minute speech by the people's representative, Kucherenko, and some of Julia Leonidivna Klimenko's revisions, and we're moving to a vote. Please, I give the floor to Alexia Kucherenko. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u91	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we certainly have no doubt about all that we have with you and the government, and the whole country will have to rebuild destroyed cities, communities, settlements. But I would very much like you to listen to those arguments, both my own, and our factions, which prevent us from supporting this bill, so to speak, and to prevent the very negative consequences that adoption of this bill can have without other things. First of all, I'm drawing your attention to it, it's called this bill, which is about reforming the urban sector. Well, I'm sorry, the words "reforming the city sector" are funny. We've been watching in recent years how it's reforming the urban system, and we're seeing what the consequences are. And if you call it, it has to be about the State Program for Restoration of Destroyed Settlements. And now, essentially. Trust my experience that no bill without a comprehensive system program, without seeing systematically how to solve this problem, will lead to absolutely negative consequences. I have no doubt that our famous builders have long been sought in line by the Ministry, by the relevant committees in order to develop the budget, build something, rebuild something. That's not bad. But what we want to do is I'm asking a question. Question number one. So the people who lived in this area, some of them died, some of them left, their houses destroyed, their housing, we compensate them for their money, or are we just building some meters square and then handing out? I still haven't heard the answer to this question that the state of Ukraine is taking responsibility for the citizens who have suffered, and I don't see the algorithm to how these money and property things are counted. The second question. I recently listened to our Supreme Council Head, Mr. Stefanchuk very much to the adoption of the Decommunization Act and said that we would not have the Old Housing Code. Tell me, please, do you realize that we don't have a new Housing Code because we need to write enough unpopular things about responsibility, about property, about the operation of houses? These buildings that will be built there, they will be whose? We're going to keep going this ridiculous distance from OSBB with all the positives, but we understand that they're not going to pull this function? There is no housing code and there is no answer to that question. Question three. Please tell me, why is it that the head of the district government decides to rebuild the area? I don't really understand, with all due respect to these officials, and I don't really understand it, we're on our way to developing local self-government and we have to accept it. District councils and local councils in this process should become a driving force. That's another question. And third, a very key point. Guys, we all have to understand that when we get the budget, some of which will be credit or donor funds, we don't even get to think about what corruption can be done there. Because we're all going to answer by dropping the authority of Ukraine. And I'm sorry, with this building industry control system, with government programs, I'm sorry, I'm predicting that these costs are going to be solved in a normal algorithm, there's going to be an appropriate system of deductions, and unfortunately we're all going to be at risk, losing the authority of our state. And last time. Then I will go over to Mrs. Helena and tell her about my colleague, a very powerful company that is about to restore the damaged heat supplies. I don't specifically call these cities names so that they don't bother him. The first step of his arrangement is to prepare for the winter that he hears. Traditional 30 percent off. That's what we're afraid of, that's why we don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Julia Klimenko, maybe a few minutes too? Two minutes and we'll go to the vote. Julia Leonidina Klimenko instead of her two minutes. And after that, let's move on to the decision-making process, please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, this bill is actually a complement to the previous bill that you and I have discussed on land relations. Of course, the country needs to be restored, not even after the war has ended, in areas where the fighting has already taken place and the Russian army has left, because people need to go back and start living again. He's needed. But this bill is just part of a big painting to be completed. It needs to be supplemented by the law that we voted with you in the first reading, the Damages Act. That's what people who go back to their homes are asking for, and they've been destroyed by the Russian army. We need to go back to the second reading and vote on the Damages Act so that people can understand how to account for them, assess the damage to whom to address, what the procedure on the part of the State, who, when they return these damages, what the cost of these losses is. And then all of this together is to collect and make a consolidated claim to the Russian Federation, which should cover all the damage that her mindless army has done. So, colleagues, let's not just be this bill as final in order to start rebuilding cities, let's go back and put in order the daily damage bill and the specific methodology that will be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers for every resident, for every Ukrainian who comes back to his house to assess these damages and pass them on for payment, the Putin bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the first steps to reform the area of urban activity (registration number 7282). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:05:18]] For 265 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill. So I ask the committee again, it hasn't arrived yet, has it? The next bill, 3774, is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws to improve the mechanism of anti-riding. We also agreed with colleagues on the Conciliation Council to remove all the amendments, instead of the amendments -- five minutes, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, and we're going to vote for this bill. Please, Julia Volodymyr. It won't, will it? Okay. Thank you. That's all right, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the registration mechanism (project registration number 3774) in the second reading with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:07:27]] For 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next bill 7317. We agreed on it on the basis and in general, there were some questions, but we vote as it is, if that's what, then. Dear colleagues, with discussion, yes, we had an agreement? Okay. Now, 7317. Dear colleagues, we need a few voting procedures. I suggest. Without discussion, dear colleagues? No discussion? One second, now. Dear colleagues, I understand there is a compromise. Vote. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the enforcement of decisions, decisions of other bodies (persons) during the war period (project registration number 7317) taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:09:11]] For 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we have a re-examination of the bill with the President's proposals. We agreed that without discussion we would vote on the proposal and vote on the law as a whole. Therefore, honourable national deputies, before your consideration, are proposed by the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Enhancing the Effectiveness of Individuals' Assets Sanctions (registration No. 7194). The relevant materials were sent electronically, and the text can also be consulted on the official site of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we would leave without discussion. Therefore, we turn to voting on the proposals proposed by the President of Ukraine. Seven proposals were made by the President. I'm putting them in order. The President's motion under number one is put to the vote. It's a bill, I'll remind you again, 7,194. I'm betting on the President's vote under number one. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:10:32]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the President's motion number two is to vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:10:54]] For 288 Decision taken. The President's motion under number 3 is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:11:14]] For 293 Decision taken. The President's motion under number 4 is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:11:34]] For 292 Decision taken. The President's motion under number five is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:11:53]] For 292 Decision taken. The President's motion under number six is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:12:12]] For 292 And the final offer. The President's motion under number 7 is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:12:32]] For 292 So all of the President's proposals are accepted. Let's move on to the voting of the law as a whole. In accordance with article 135 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on enhancing the effectiveness of sanctions relating to individual assets, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine (registration No. 7194). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:13:15]] For 308. Decision taken, taken as a whole. Thank you. The law was passed with the President's proposals. Next bill. Dear colleagues, this is the next draft of the Order of Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. It's a bill. This is Project Rule 7366. We had an agreement to vote this issue without discussion as a whole. Yes, dear colleagues? I'm proposing a draft amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call, registered. Oh, I'm sorry, I give you the right to declare a conflict of interest to the person who will. Please, the national deputy of Haydus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u95	I will not vote for myself because there is a conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I propose the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 7366). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:29]] For 287 Decision taken. Welcome. We have the head of the agrarian committee. Welcome! Dear colleagues, we already have the committee's decision, it's now being uploaded to SEDO. Literally a few more seconds. The registration number of the bill, which we initially sent for re-reading, 7269. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status on the Functioning of Local Self-Government during the Wartime. Dear colleagues, we agreed without discussion to vote on it as a basis and as a whole. Wait a second. Dear colleagues, we agreed that the People's Deputy will make one amendment. I invite a committee representative, one amendment, and then we go to the vote for the second reading. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Please place 509 revisions on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u98	One second, I'll have a representative of the committee. The committee's position is to support this amendment, right? Dear colleagues, 509 amendments, do I understand? You put her on the stand, yes, she's on the committee. Dear colleagues, 509 amendments. The committee's proposal is to support it, leave it in that one. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. 509 repairs. Please vote. [[14:18:43]] For 255 Decision taken. The amendment remained in the body of the law. Dear colleagues, according to our agreement, I am voting for a re-admission and, in general, taking into account the committee’s proposals, Bill No. 7269. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then, if you'll just give me a minute, before we vote, I'll give you my word. Well, everyone was on the committee, so there was a decision. Please make a decision to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u99	Thank you. In fact, according to Parliament’s mandate, the committee met today on the basis of a letter from the factions and groups, and the committee reviewed the decision on several areas of the bill. The first block, which was agreed upon by all, is the authorization, in fact, of district councils and district councils. What is the proposed edition and the revisions are supported? A supported algorithm that refers to a situation where the administrative centre is occupied or surrounded, or when the President adopts the appropriate decision, makes a submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine by its vote adopts or does not approve such a decision. The second block of compromise applied to the single powers of the heads of city, village, and village councils. There are only seven powers left that relate directly to the allocation of funds for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in particular, to the direct question of the establishment of free legal assistance centres for displaced persons on the issue of inspection of buildings that were affected, for example during military operations, without enlargement. All the other decisions, they are approved by the session, as they were before. So I can read the revisions accordingly, you can look at the table, because the numbering has changed, which has been supported. Well, don't let your colleagues have any questions. They're accounted for. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting for a re-second reading and, in general, taking into account the committee's proposals, a bill (registration number 7269) amending Ukraine's Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status on the Functioning of Local Self-Government during the Wartime. We accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, taking into account the committee's proposals. Got it, fellows, right? Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[14:21:40]] For 289 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. All right, have a seat, please. Let's see the factions. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, there are two bills: 7360 and 7249. So we agreed that the first was based on the whole, but with the discussion, and the second with the discussion, because this is the second reading. And so the first bill of 7360. He needs to be included in the agenda. I therefore propose to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on tax administration features, congregations and the only contribution during the operation of the military, state of emergency (project registration number 7360). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:22:47]] For 307 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:23:11]] For 287 Dear colleagues, with your permission, I will give the floor to Mr. Alexander Getmantsev first, because there are changes in the text as decided by the committee, and after that: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Danilo Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank the business, to bow low to the business that pays taxes and works at such a difficult time, despite the war, despite the conditions created by the aggressor. And at the demand of business, even though the country is very difficult, we are restoring the VAT compensation system and tax registration. The committee has decided on some changes in the text of the bill that I am about to read. In paragraph 11 of paragraph 2 of section I of the bill (for the editing of paragraph 6 of sub-paragraph 69.1), replace the words and digits "July 2022" with the words "July 25, 2022". After paragraph 12 of paragraph 2 of section I of section 2 of the bill (for the wording of subsection 69.1), add to the following paragraph: "The procedure for confirming the possibility or failure by the payer to perform the duties defined in subsection 69.1, paragraph 69 of subsection 10 of section X and the list of supporting documents shall be approved by the central authority of the executive authority, which shall ensure the formation and implementation of the national financial policy." Paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of section II of the bill reads: "Determin that, by 31 December 2022, the customs treatment for the purpose of free circulation and the first national registration in Ukraine of means of transport under the codes of goods of headings 8702, 8704, 8705, 8705 according to the U.S.C., both produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, shall be carried out on condition that such persons comply with environmental standards not less than the level of "Euro-3" and provided that such means are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by legal persons for their own use and cannot be alienated within 1095 days from the date of their first national registration in Ukraine." Thank you. Please support the bill and support our business.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u102	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. You're brilliant. You're such a parliamentary eminence of the present. Dear colleagues, we agreed two, two, against discussing this bill. Please sign up your colleagues for a discussion. Please. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u103	Thank you. Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u104	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u105	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! In fact, this draft law on the return of full responsibility of the payer during a state of war is also valid for the determination of tax obligations and for timely reporting, and for timely payment. The second part of this project is about returning VAT only manually. The first compensation for the month of February will be available to those who will be working on the deadlines not earlier than December 2022. And the third is the elimination of active bus companies. I'll stop now. You know, on the eighth day of the war, on March 3, we found that during the fighting, and now the sharp phase of the war is going on, there is no possibility for taxpayers to report on time, full-time and pay. Dear colleagues, our taxpayers are exactly like the citizens, without your standards, fully finance the army, both financially and materially. And everyone pays taxes, nobody hides. Who has the circulation cost, who has the opportunity to work, even pay all these taxes in advance, and paid more than two months in a row. Therefore, it is not only inappropriate to take full responsibility for them, but it is a crime against business today. You can refund VAT, but you don't have to return the full responsibility. Once again, the payment of VAT by hand has already begun to be discussed. This is an absolute disgrace to both our warriors and our defenders. And the norm that is now being proposed to stop our bus manufacturers because they are in every city: Lviv, Zaporozhye, Kremenchuk, Lutsk, Cherkas, Chernigs. And by the way, during the war, they produce all the technology for our Armed Forces, without any support from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a brief look at what this bill is about. With the beginning of the war, we have the most important sector for the economy of Ukraine, namely, exporters, actually got the worst conditions -- they didn't get VAT back. We encourage them to export, make profits, sell them under national bank regulation, but we don't pay them back 20 percent. And it's a disgrace, and it was a problem, and now this law solves it, and it's probably the most fundamental norm in this law. The second part they added is the ability to import an old one that corresponds to Euro-3 transport: buses, tractors and what is needed for business. It's also an issue, but it's necessary. And we found a compromise, including, I hope, with the local authorities, that by the end of the year they would have the opportunity. And your colleagues who do local self-government will confirm that unfortunately, we need to start a cheap car transport for utilities, for business, because there's no one else. The most complex and most controversial norm is for checks and tax recovery. The question is debated by a hundred percent, and everyone here will make the decision he deems necessary. Provided that there could be a coffee shop in Chernivts where, with all due respect, enough people and probably increased, and in Butch, where, of course, they had been occupied for a long time and had not now recovered? Can business pay taxes now or not? Once again, it's a question of debate, and I think the committee members, and the factions on our committee, all the factions, have found the compromise that can be written together with the Ministry of Finance. When, as a business, you prove that you couldn't pay the tax, you don't pay it, if you don't, unfortunately you have to pay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u108	Thank you. Please finish the speech: Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. And then we move on to making decisions. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Today, in a very difficult situation where we have our country, we're going to be honest, we have two fronts. In the first world, we have proved that Ukrainians are the best, the bravest, and the most loyally defending their homeland. And we stopped the aggressor today, we're throwing him back. Next. Our next front is the labor front. And as a result, we have to do everything we can to get those people who have gone abroad to come back and work, to work, to restore our GDP. And each of our legislative initiatives has to come out of this. Therefore, the bills that will help to raise and preserve jobs, restore our production, restore our business without abuse, and maintain it unconjunctively will be our support group. I hope that this bill has, in all contradictions today, to unite the Supreme Council of Ukraine for one purpose and one purpose, namely, to get people back to work and get a fair pay. We have bills to support this. And once again, they must unite us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation and other laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of tax administration, the congregations and the only contribution in the course of the operation of the military, state of emergency (project registration number 7360). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:33:00]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, and the final bill that we're going to consider today is 7249. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of the definition of rent for natural gas extraction for periods of military, state of emergency. It's a second reading. So I understand that some adjustments will be made, so let's go in order, I'll ask and my colleague will tell if he's going to make an amendment or not. 2 repairs, Puppy. Don't insist. 3rd, Marusian. Don't insist. 7th, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Don't insist. Thank you. 10th, Thorochty. Don't insist. 11th, Eugene. Please, Nina Petrovna, 11th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Head, 11th, 12th, 13th, only to confirm 12th and 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u112	Look, for confirmation of the 12th, you can't put it because it's yours and it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u113	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u114	On account of that, yes. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u115	Yeah, on the 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u116	Please, Nina Petrovna is three minutes, and we're voting 12th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, such stressful business situations that we've just created with you, taking 7360, are a positive thing, it's paying off VAT in January of the month. But for the rest of the business, that's exactly what they didn't expect. I'm asking you very much, and I'm addressing the committee head, so don't do that during the war. We're going to get a return on the bill that you don't even know what it's going to be, and with the consequences of corruption. Back to this bill. Please tell me, when we first read it, we were hoping that the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" would be involved in the drafting of the bill as a market subject in order not to break the market relationship on which special functions are laid by the state. During the working group, thank you so much for taking care of everything, but there is something strange going on in the country. We've decided that NAC Naftogaz will be able to buy gas before the heating season, when the price for this product is, we'll imagine what's happening on the hood right now, more than a thousand dollars per thousand cubic meters, and what's going to happen next. So why am I insisting on my 12th amendment? Despite the fact that, in the course of the discussion, there was no way to make a decision that was still different from the one that had been adopted on March 15 during the war and that the differentiated wage rate had been introduced, i.e. the changed tax base, because they expected to tax the profits. On March 15, we understood, if not 50 percent, or maybe more, of the business stopped and gas consumption would not take place in Ukraine, and by imposing an export ban, we put our own gas producers in the most difficult position because the rent is paid in terms of production, and the money is gone, and there is no realisation. So now by introducing a cash method for them that in history the payment of rents is actually the first time in our country, and it was inappropriate to do that even during the war, but the ambitions of the authors of previous changes remain in place and they will not agree that this is exactly what they should cancel without breaking the formula they introduced, just amendment 12 on what says that NAC Naftogaz is going to buy gas from the producers who are turning to them, we don't force them to sell it at some fixed price. But if they did, NAC would have to buy at a market price of 0.8. Most of the workers agree. Please support this norm, it doesn't hurt the concept that is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the 12th amendment to the authorship of the National Deputy of South Carolina. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:57]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I understand, no one will insist, we have spoken, we can move on to making a decision. Yeah? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of the determination of the rent for natural gas production during the period of military, extraordinary status (project registration number 7249). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:38:54]] For 275 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. And Alexander Sergiyovich, with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sign the bills adopted today as a whole of the Supreme Council and send them to the President of Ukraine immediately for signature. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[14:39:27]] For 318 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-12-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. The time and place of the next meeting will be announced in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. With us is the truth, God is with us. We'll win together. And glory to Ukraine!
