ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian People's Party, before the plenary meeting, I would like to highlight the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the beginning of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament more than 30 minutes after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council is working in a single plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war, and the proposals of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good parliamentary tradition, let's start with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, today is the 225th day of the full-scale military aggression of the Russian Federation against the Ukrainian people, against our nation, against the values of democracy and humanism. The enemy slyly continues to use heavy artillery and to fly aircraft on the civilians of Zaporozhye, the White Church, Mikolayev, Kharkiv, and many other Ukrainian settlements. In response to barbaric fires and criminal attempts at annexation of temporarily occupied territories, our courageous and unbreakable soldiers take over seized Ukrainian lands every day, raise the Ukrainian flag on villages and cities, step by step, approaching our victory. Regrettably, the brutal struggle is not without its victims, our defenders and protectors are killed in the battlefield, and civilian casualties are increasing. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the soldiers who have fallen into battle for the protection of Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity, as well as of all peaceful citizens who have died at the hands of Russian invaders. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the day's agenda for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Therefore, I ask representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We are convinced that the primary task of the Ukrainian Parliament in fighting the aggressor must be to mark a mark worthy of the Ukrainian parliamentarians' contribution of our defenders and protectors to Ukraine, to the defence and liberation of Ukrainian lands. And to that end, our parliamentary group "For the Future" has prepared an appropriate bill, in which we propose from the time of its adoption that we begin to include one month of military service in combat zones in three months of the calculation of seniority, pensions, employment. One month in three months on the front. We are convinced that the self-loyalty and heroism of Ukrainian defenders and protectors, who are enthralled by the entire civilized world, deserve due recognition by the state. In addition, we suggest that longtime and advanced military personnel be given the right to use the scheduled vacation to visit their families if they are abroad. Because military personnel are not the only category of citizens who deserve most the right to go abroad in today's conditions. Many of them voluntarily went to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, stayed at zero for months, and on vacation they should be able to meet their families who are actually abroad. A request to Parliament, when the bill is introduced into the session room, to support it in such an order. Dear friends, we are on the eve of a great festival, a great date. Soon we will celebrate and honor the 80th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian rebel army. It was that army that had already fought with the armed aggressor, the totalitarian regime, the two totalitarian regimes that the Nazi, the Communist, the difference of the global one was not and is not. Therefore, in this context, we believe that the Ukrainian Parliament, by raising its subjectivity, and, as I understand it today, we are renewing the voting rules for parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine and to all the authorities, asking to support Parliament's attribution. The deputy's request to the President of Ukraine for the adoption of the last hundred-year-old UPA of Ukraine alive, Miroslav Simcic, who is 100 years-old. And on the eve of the 80th anniversary of the UPA, and on the eve of its Jubilee, it is worth honoring the memory of all the fighters for Ukraine's independence who have fallen. Let's honor heroes in a nutshell, to honor heroes in a nutshell. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u3	Heroim Slava! Please give the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u4	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! You know, in terms of Russian aggression, when there are huge successes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we need to think first of all about the social future of our citizens. It's the social future, because war is making adjustments, and if we look at the trends in demographic development and the quality and quantity of production forces in Ukraine, we see today that we need to radically reform the social insurance system. Law 3663 was discussed last week. He's starting this system of optimizing social insurance so that we can make a logical, kind of whole, and a single social contribution system and a single social fund system that would administer this social contribution and payouts that would pay our citizens, and at the same time we could save the costs of our citizens' insurance contributions and increase their social protection. I would like to remind the opponents of this Law 3663 that the administration of the Social Fund has never even met this year. Hospital letters, October 6, and hospital letters, are paid only for June. That is why we need, knowing all of these future risks, to change and prepare ourselves in advance for these processes. I want to thank Galina Mikolayevni. Galina Mikolayevna, we need to continue this question now, and it would be logical to hand over the functions of the Employment Fund to the Pension Fund by the end of this year. And so that, in accordance with the International Labour Organization Convention ratified by Ukraine, we can organize separately: the State Employment Service and the only social fund whose administration is responsible for both the functions of the Pension Fund and the cash registers. And in this way, we could save social security for our citizens. In order for us to raise them in the future, we need to do so. And this is a German model, this is a Polish model, this is a European model. Unlike some who want to leave us in the old Russian model, we have to go to the European model of social insurance, to increase the social protection of our citizens and to overcome corruption in the funds. Because imagine the insolence of these funds, if the Social Insurance Fund, knowing that the Supreme Council is voting the law in general, it's spending 70 million dollars on software, with a million dollars on it. It's not like we need to eliminate these functions, we need to turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u5	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I'd like to talk to you today about three things: first about partners, second about enemies, and third about their agents. The first is about partners. The first in the daytime, one of the first, is our appeal to the international community to emphasize the right to self - determination of the peoples of heresy. It's very important, and I'm very grateful for the leadership in Parliament that raises these questions, but very often when we talk too much in general, we have a total result. It is vital that we address ourselves in an addressable manner. In the 1990 ’ s, one of the so - called entities of the Federation, namely the Republic of Iceland, declared its independence. And this independence was sunk in the blood. I would very much advise and appeal to my fellow parliamentarians to support a decision that will soon be registered, to condemn the occupation of independent Icheria, and to condemn the genocide of the Chechen people. Our Chechen brothers are now fighting alongside us. Let's address the international community to condemn what Russia did to the Chechens. Now it's about the enemies. We can only welcome the fact that the judicial branch of power is finally beginning to be cleansed. The Russian citizen, Judge Lvov, was still deprived of his status by the Supreme Court. And this shows that the way in which judicial reform is being carried out is producing results. But we have to move on. 18 judges who supported his stay in the judicial branch should be examined, and so should those Ukrainian security officers who had allegedly examined Judge Ljovov and did not notice Russian citizenship. And about the agents. Friends, the occupying church can't operate in Ukraine. The Moscow Patriarchate must be deprived of any status in Ukraine, no matter how mimicking it. So, friends, let's support our partners, fight our enemies, and not allow their agents to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u7	Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u8	Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! The line between good and evil, between the civilized world and the barbarians, is clear today and everything. This limit begins immediately after the cold trenches in which they sit stand courageously by Ukrainian soldiers. On the one hand, they have a civilized democratic world behind them, a world that longs for a beautiful European future, occupied by the invaders, terrorists who carry only death on temporarily conquered Ukrainian lands. You and I understand that the Kremlin Empire is already outside the civilized world and will probably not return to the civilized world for a few future generations. It's a long way to go, it's hard, but we'll do it. We're going to win, we're going to win, because with us are the Armed Forces of Ukraine, these heroes and heroes who are amazing at the courage of every Ukrainian and all of the world -- this is Lyman, this is Hersonish, this is the beginning of Lugansk's invasion. We sincerely thank our Armed Forces of Ukraine for their courage, their open hearts, hot ones, full of Ukrainian energy, demonstrate to the world how this bloodthirsty Kremlin regime is approaching its conclusion, which is completely outside the civilized world. And you and I need to help our Ukrainian Armed Forces, concentrate together to help our courageous soldiers win this victory. We have to accept the budget next year, which will pay high wages for our defenders and protectors. We need to work with the international community to continue to help us with both military and international material and technical assistance to support all our Armed Forces of Ukraine, because they have shown us how to ensure your security here, in the hall, security in our country, security in Europe, security around the world. That is the goal of NATO — security. Therefore, thanks to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we deserve to be in NATO, because of their courageous hearts we must be NATO members. Thank you, Armed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u9	Please, Sergey Stepa. Do I get it right? Please, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u10	Tonight, Russian terrorist forces fired rockets at multistory residential buildings in the very center of Zaporozhye. One of the buildings was directly hit, and several approaches were destroyed. Do you know what's next? Other multi-floor dwellings. It's not even a covert terrorist act. Russian aggressors deliberately strike at civilian infrastructure and kill civilians. And let them know that for each dead and every tortured Ukrainian there will be retribution sooner or later. We refer from this rostrum to the entire international community: politicians, diplomats, ordinary citizens. We have to finally recognize Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. We ask you to give us all the weapons we need to bring this war to an end as soon as possible. Help us, too, with antiaircraft. It takes time to close the sky over Ukraine to put an end to the suffering of Ukrainians who slept peacefully in their homes and killed them with missiles. How many more people are going to die? How many more houses must be destroyed to finally stop this terror and the peace that everyone has guaranteed and promised us in Ukraine. At least one woman and 22 victims of the night rocket strike on Zaporozhye were known to have died at 12 o’clock in the morning. In addition, the enemy continued to fire rockets, and in the morning civilian targets in Zaporozhye were again fired. At present, lifesaving labors are under way, and it is likely that people are still under siege. I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the memory of those who died from rocket fire this night. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Everlasting memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u11	Please, Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u12	Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, our heroic army is returning our territory to victory in this war. Praise our heroes! But the question is, which country will the people of the front come back to, what will they see here and what you're building in general. I realize that very few people in this room are interested in the content of the laws, but I want to remind you that almost 40 laws, laws have been passed or voted in the Supreme Council that radically destroy the rights of working people. 40 bills, 8 of which have already been voted on and adopted. And our team just thought about how to fight this, what to do when a majority monolith spits at all rights, at international conventions. Absolute power, once again confirmed, is absolutely immoral. And getting to the heart, to the mind, to the logic is absolutely groundless. And that's why our team decided to act internationally. Our delegation visited the International Labour Organization last week, met with the Director-General, with all the experts who are analyzing the situation in Ukraine. We've met with global unions in Europe, and we've developed a very clear concept of protecting working people from you, from your laws, from the destruction of all labour legislation. We agreed that these 40 bills, of which eight are already laws, would be reviewed in an accelerated manner in the International Labour Organization, and an independent analysis would be done. In each of these laws, the international conventions of the International Labour Organization seem to have been severely violated. Everyone was on an international level surprised, they were shocked that in Ukraine today, fighting for their lives, there was enough time and insolence to destroy the legislation on work and take away the people who are on the front today, their rights as working people. And we agreed that, once we get the expertise, we will work with the European Commission with global unions, and every bill of your government, your anti-social committee was clearly told which positions of international conventions should be returned. And that's exactly how you should act -- through international organizations, when the monopoly authorities crossed all the red lines today. Today, so will Bill 7628 "U" on the destruction of collective agreements. You don't vote for that. Glory to Ukraine! We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u14	Please give the word to Pavel Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u15	Dear Ukrainians, yesterday our team suffered another painful and irreparable loss. Our Party of Zaporozhye, a cyborg, a scientist, a very decent and bright man named Viacheslav Zeets, was killed in the battles on Donetskina. Everlasting memory of the hero and of all fallen warriors. Viacheslav, like tens of thousands of other supporters of Ukraine, liberated his land from the Russian occupation. As long as the entire civilised world condemns pseudoferendums under machine guns and the theft of occupied territories in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Armed Forces remain the best antidote to road madness. It was the success of the Ukrainian army that made Putin go to the bank, advertised in Russia a "mogilization," from which Russians flee like hell, in an effort to annex occupied territories to blackmail the entire world and intimidate the Ukrainians with a nuclear bomb. It is worth noting that a significant role in this Sabbath was played by those who had been hiding for years in the lists of pro-Russian parties -- parties that were banned by the Ukrainian court that brought "Russian peace" here. Our team has drafted a bill that will provide a comprehensive illustration of the pro-Russian wastes at all levels. We believe that most of the Council is ready to support this initiative. And if the Ukrainian army is the primary guarantee of our victory today, NATO membership is the guarantee of the peaceful life of our children. That's why NATO membership has always been a strategic goal for the European Solidarity Team. We welcome the decision to apply from Ukraine to join the Alliance, and we are helping to achieve success in our actions rather than just congratulating. Right now, Peter Poroshenko at international meetings in Sweden and Britain is urging partners to support Ukraine’s application. Moreover, he insists that the Alliance consider an accelerated admission procedure, following the example of Sweden and Finland, because Ukraine has already paid a very high price for its right to stay in NATO without additional conditions. NATO, even more weapons, even more hellish sanctions against Russia, a strong anti-putinian coalition, and Ukraine's economic support -- here are the five main elements of the formula of victory that Poroshenko presented to the allies. And we expect that these five items will not be an empty sound for the Ukrainian authorities. Our main task today is the quality budget for 2023. Quality is the military's primary funding, not the cost of nearly 100 billion per road, as planned now. Quality is the support of the most vulnerable populations, not the economy of the poorest. A good one is smart spending on the law enforcement system, not a 2.5 billion being thrown out on the underprivileged D.B.I., which again knocks fictional things out against the political opponents of the government. "European Solidarity" has already prepared its budget proposal and is ready to stand up for the cost of the warring country for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. I invite the National Deputies to take their seats. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the day’s vote. Please. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the people's deputies to take part in the signal vote and press the "Pro" green button. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to make a signal vote? People's deputies please take part in the signal vote. [[12:31:09]] For 231 231 – yes, 4 – no, 4 – held, 106 – did not vote. Everything as usual. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I appeal to all the Ukrainian national MPs, representatives of the government with the call to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, which was decided in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. Colleagues, a list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board, are given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, who signed? "Fatherland" and who else? Dear colleagues, let's do this while we're preparing to consider the issues, before we do this, there's a statement with a break with a replacement for the performance, signed "Fatherland" and "For the Future." The word is given to the national deputy, Yatzenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! In fact, in the country of war, and we understand everything, but today, for six months now, the requests of the national MPs are the main instrument for the work of the national MP, especially the majority, and they are not read, which severely limits the rights of the MP. We're just writing references to what are the gaps in legislation today, and they're not actually responding to local authorities, ministries, offices, and so on. So, Mr. Stefanchuk, this is a big request, and you are the speaker and you have to defend the interests of Parliament, Parliamentarianism, please make sure that we have the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine on the Status of People's Deputies, and make inquiries, please. If, for example, we do. You can't just Friday, let's adopt the law that the author of the Shpak and the other deputies can do any day, or let's put a separate session on Friday. But let's understand that we are a democratic country and we have to fully defend the interests of parliamentaryism and people first of all who chose us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u18	Thank you. Because I was remembered. Whether you will. Since you mentioned me, I want to inform you. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed that during our meetings. Mr. Anton, do you have any questions about your question? Mr. Anton Yatzenko! Anton Yatzenko, do you care about my answer or do you only know how to ask questions? I'll let you know. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed with the leaders of factions and groups that each time we will be able to read appropriate requests from national MPs to restore this function of parliamentary control. Did I satisfy you? The first requests to the President today will be put to the vote at the end of the day, and the others will be read tomorrow either by me or by Alexander Sergiyovich. Thank you. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. And so, the first question is the draft Order for Change in the Order of the Day of the Eighth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (7440-4). Dear colleagues, we agreed today on the Conciliation Council that we are without discussion, right, that's the question. Please prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. I would like to consider a brief draft of the Order amending the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Registration number of the project Regulation 7740-4. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:26]] For the 250. Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft regulation amending the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 7740-4). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:59]] For 256 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next question is the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the criminal decisions of the Russian Federation’s leadership on the attempted annexation of the temporarily occupied territories of Donetské, Lugansk, Zaporozky and Herson regions of Ukraine (registration No. 8091). I'm proposing to include this decision in the agenda of the day session, this project. Please vote. [[12:36:44]] For 302 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. But we agreed, we'll give two minutes from each faction, but we'll vote short. Please vote. Short-term procedure for 8091. [[12:37:10]] For 275 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u19	The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to introduce himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, we have already made appropriate decisions several times about what the Russian Federation is doing in Ukraine. Today, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the criminal decisions of the Russian Federation’s leadership regarding the attempted annexation of the temporarily occupied territories of Donetské, Lugansk, Zaporozky, and Herson regions of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that on September 30th of this year, the President of the Russian Federation signed so-called international agreements to include in the Russian Federation the territories of Donetské, Lugansk, Zaporezki and Herson region of Ukraine temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation. By this decision, the Russian Federation has once again grossly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within internationally recognized borders, as well as a series of international legal acts. In this regard, it is necessary to approve the appropriate declaration of criminality and the legal futility of the pseudoferendums and the fairer integration ceremony held in the Kremlin in order to assure the international community that the Russian leadership has in no way changed the legal status of the temporarily occupied territories as the sovereign territories of Ukraine and will have no legal effect on the administrative and territorial system and internationally recognized borders of our country. The application proposes calling on the UN, the EU, NATO, parliaments and governments of all the nations of the world and international institutions to condemn the holding by the Russian Federation of fictitious referendums, not to accept their fabricated results as legitimate. Increase the sanctions pressure on the Russian Federation. To recognize the Russian Federation as a sponsor of terrorism and to impose appropriate sanctions. Initiate a review of the Russian Federation's presence in the United Nations and its organs and organizations. In view of the above, I ask you to support this draft decision and vote. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u21	Heroic glory! Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. From the Committee of Bogdan Vasilovich Jaremenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u22	Bogdan Yaremenko, Party of Servants of the People. Dear colleagues, the draft of this ruling, we hope, will complete the process of political and legal response of the higher legislative body of Ukraine to attempts by the Russian Federation to annex our territories. The Supreme Council of Ukraine took a principled position on these issues, beginning with the attempt to annex Crimea and ending with the last Kremlin farce. According to the explanatory note, according to the authors' signatures, the draft regulation does not require additional funding from the state or local budgets. Following a review of the bill at the meeting of the Committee on 5 October, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the criminal decisions of the Russian Federation leadership on the attempted annexation of the temporarily occupied territories of the Donetsk, Lugansk, Zaporzik and Herson regions of Ukraine in the order of the day-to-day eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation and to adopt it as a basis and in general, taking into account the technical and legal rights decisions of the Russian Federation and with the proposed replacement committee, namely paragraph three of the statement in the form of a statement in the so-called "High Council of Ukraine also unequivocally condemns the criminal decision of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation to replace it, namely paragraph three of the statement on the status of the Russian state of the so-called state of the temporary state of the Federation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that each faction and group will have two minutes to speak on this order. I'm asking the People's Deputies of factions and groups to sign up for the performance. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, "The Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Inia Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u25	Please give me your word. Don't give it up, huh? Okay, thanks. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please, the "Fatherland" faction. Valentin Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Supreme Council speaks with the voice of all the Ukrainian people. And we're clearly telling the world that there are no referendums under occupation, and we didn't have them. That's the first one. The other one. With the voice of the entire Ukrainian people, we claim that this is another crime of occupation committed by Putin and his forces occupying our land. Likewise today, we make it clear to both the UN and the European Union, and to all the parliaments of the world, that Ukraine is the only one, and that neither in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, nor in Donetsk, nor in Lugansk, nor in Hersonian, nor in Zaporozhye, nor will there be any fairy referendums, nor will there be any occupation. We clearly state and say that crimes in the form of so-called referendums must be condemned and sanctions must be imposed here and now on the Russian Federation. For those who doubt, we say that in both China and India, and in all other countries, no one ever recognizes these quaserferendums. Just as Ukraine says that by protecting ourselves and our territorial integrity, we protect the integrity of other countries that question only one country in the world, only one regime, called the Russian Federation. Our answer and unity are: Here and now, do not let the aggressor escape punishment. We demand that the International Criminal Court and the Tribunal condemn both the leadership of the Russian Federation and their crimes against humanity in our territory. And we will liberate our territory, and the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u27	Please give the floor to national deputy Dmitruk Artem Hennadijovich, deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainian people! I want to be heard in all parts of our country, from the village of Grahamic in Chernigovishte to the village of Saric in Crimea, from the village of Ranji Zorya in Luhanskish to the village of Solomono in Zakarpatta. The actions of the RF to decide whether or not to join their territories are worthless, both by form and by content. The only result of these actions is an increased evidence base for the future tribunal over the authors and perpetrators of this war. Regardless of the fictitiousness of the last steps, it is a challenge for both the international community and us both for the legitimate Ukrainian Parliament, representing the voter position, including in the occupied territories. The MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" thinks that we should give a worthy return to similar actions by the entire anti-putin coalition. I express my sincere gratitude to the tens of countries that have expressed their fair stand in the operational regime and have failed to recognize both the pseudoferendums directed and the subsequent actions of the Russian authorities. Such steps by our friends are worthy of imitation throughout the world. The formula for achieving peace in Ukraine is well - known and should not be sought. This is an increase in the military support of the Ukrainian Army, these are powerful sanctions against the RF. Our country, our people will not break or conquer. It's gonna be Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u29	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u30	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sophia Fedini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u31	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u32	Ukraine was fortunately struck over the head by a northern neighbour -- the Moscow Federation, such a great and powerful country -- that toilets, washing machines and electric kettles are a great treasure for them. But how does the Moscow Federation do so by violating all international law by destroying the international security system, by continuing to swim and committing acts of aggression against Ukraine and other nations of the world? In particular, this is explained by the fact that today the Moscow Federation is very efficient and actively using the tools of democracy for aggression, murder, annexation and destruction that it carries around the world. What is it? Even the same referendums, pseudo-choices and pseudo-acquisitions are tools of the seemingly democratic world that the Moscow Federation uses to reason and influence its own population, to psychologically influence the international community, but just like a long-acting mechanism for further shaping the order of the day world. What's more, all these pseudo-eferendums and pseudo-democracy steps it's taking are being used to set up a dialogue that now with the Moscow Federation is being denied by all the civilized states of the world. Regrettably, the Moscow Federation uses international organizations as well as various tragedies in the world to push its agenda. And Ukraine today has to react in an unusual way, to offer hybrid answers that will not be expected for the Moscow Federation. That is why the next decree on the self - determination of the nations is one such step. And now we're like a state that's defending the entire civilized world against a terrorist state, and it's up to us to propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u33	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, MP for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u34	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Ukraine's territorial integrity is sacred, that's why Ukrainian military and civilian citizens today are giving their lives in opposition to Russian aggression. Our group will support this draft decision and this draft statement. And we believe that the ratification by the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of these pseudo-agreements is questioning the very status of this federation as a state-owned entity. That is why we call on all the structures: both the United Nations Organization, and the European Union, and NATO structures, and other countries and their governments to support Ukraine and preserve the territorial integrity of our nation. Dear colleagues, let us unite around supporting this decision, supporting it. It's a sacred cause, and I think we're going to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u35	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Bogdan Yaremenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u37	Yaremenko Bogdan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u38	Bogdan Yaremenko, 215 constituency, Party of Servants of the People. Dear colleagues, we are well aware that over 61,000 Russian invaders have come to know Ukrainian land. There is no other way for Russians and Russia to get Ukrainian land and there will be no other way. The hole from the bubbly, not the Ukrainian territory, will be obtained by Russia. There's no need to discuss it. This position was borne out by the Ukrainian people and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I urge you to vote and accept this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u39	Thank you. The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, what do you say? Whether it's the wish to revive the Soviet Union, or whether it's the desire to return to some border of the Russian Empire from 1913 to 1914, it's all a desire for a sick imagination and a note of the madman. And from that point of view, I think that "crazy notes" are appreciating President Putin's steps around the world today. And even if President Putin didn't want to challenge Western civilization, another part of civilization doesn't support him either. I'm talking about China, and I'm talking about Iran, even, who said that he respected the territorial integrity of the state. Putin is alone, in an absolute sense alone, even the inhabitants of most of their Russian Federation do not support it. Because, according to a brave man in Russia, Dmitry Muratov, who is rescued from arrest today by only a ring winner of the Nobel Prize, could not sleep until February 24th, or would not sleep together with Zaporozhye or Mariupol. I think we're doing everything right. And our army, our Ukrainian Armed Forces, are showing this inadequacy of the steps taken by the Russian Federation, the Russian authorities that have taken this manic step. And what's more, no one's forgotten or forgotten. We will not forget any names of the Council of the Federation and the State word to vote for this illegal annexation. And certainly, within the framework of the future international relevant treaty, which ends in arrest and trial of those who voted for it, all will be punished and brought to criminal responsibility. And Ukraine will return all its territories, all its territories, which were in 1991. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, and the final talk. Paul Andriovich Bakunets, MP's "Trust". Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, dear Ukrainian people! The entire civilized world today, on behalf of the entire Ukrainian people, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, expressing the views of all Ukrainians, is calling upon the international community to recognize the wrongfulness of seeing the cynicism of these fictitious referendums, this illegal annexation of Ukrainians temporarily occupied by the enemy territories. Together we can defeat these invaders, these terrorists. This is the Kremlin's evil that crawls through the boot of man's insatiableness, the bloodthirsty on our Ukrainian lands. Our Ukrainian soldiers will surely defeat these terrorists and these invaders. We're already winning, and we're about to win. Today, we are calling on the world community to help Ukrainians to win this victory. All we have to do is not acknowledge these fictitious referendums, this shameful annexation of Ukrainian territories, strengthen the international community's sanctions against this "Cremle Federation", recognize the obvious -- recognize Russia as a sponsor of terrorism, increase our military assistance and, finally, stress, accept Ukraine to NATO, because the goal of NATO is security in the world, and Ukrainian soldiers ensure the security of Europe and the whole world. Therefore, thanks to the Ukrainian soldiers, we deserve to be members of NATO's international organization. We thank our Armed Forces of Ukraine for this. Hail ZSU! Glory.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. And please take your seats, we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with criminal decisions of the Russian Federation’s leadership on the attempted annexation of the temporarily occupied territories of Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporijk and Herson region of Ukraine (registration number of draft regulation 8091). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:34]] For 315 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next order is registration number 8105. It's a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to an international partnership to support the right to self-determination of the peoples of the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:16]] For 298 I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:37]] For 268. Dear colleagues, we agreed on a report and every faction and group of two minutes. The only request I have is because this is a new decision, let me read it out, a statement, in general, and then we'll move on to its discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u44	The word is given for the presentation of Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, the rulings of the Supreme Council that we voted before, they were more focused on reflection as to what the Russian Federation was doing about Ukraine. This statement, it's conceptually different, it translates the Supreme Council into an active part of the political front of the world. So, with your permission, I'm going to read the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is being proposed. The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international co-operation to support the right to self-determination of the peoples of the Russian Federation. Recognizing the continued position of Ukraine in the implementation of the norms and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crime of Genocide, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the United Nations Declaration on Principles of International Law relating to Friendship and Cooperation between States in accordance with the UN Statute, the Final Act of the Security and Cooperation Council in Europe, Emphasizing the key importance of the need to respect the universal principles of international law, including the principles of non-application of force or threat of force, State sovereignty, territorial integrity of independent states, respect for human rights, the integrity of international obligations, the self-determination of peoples, Strongly condemning the ongoing armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine since February 2014, which is also accompanied by the violent capture of part of Ukraine's sovereign territory, such as that which is contrary to popular norms and principles of international law, Taking into account the numerous resolutions, declarations, requirements and recommendations of international organisations and their parliamentary assemblies, including the UN, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please include, we have agreed to complete this application by the end. . The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the European Commission for Democracy through Law (the Venice Commission), condemning violations by the Russian Federation of Human Rights, politically and nationally motivated persecution and calls on the Russian authorities to honour their obligations and immediately release all illegal prisoners, Stressing also that, in implementing its imperialist policy, Russia has for centuries committed genocide against enslaved peoples, ignored the principles of equality and self-determination of nations, grossly violated the rights of indigenous peoples and citizens belonging to national minorities, Pointing to the fact that even in carrying out the takeover war against Ukraine, the Russian authorities are committing genocide against the peoples of the Russian Federation, in particular by using the announced mobilization thereof, Underlining that totalitarianism and authoritarianism of the Russian authorities pose a threat to the free, democratic development of the peoples of Russia and the realization of their right to self-determination, and its imperial policy is not compatible with the UN Statute, the universal norms and principles of international law, the Supreme Council of Ukraine: (1) Supports the inalienable right of the peoples of the Russian Federation to self-determination in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, the universal norms and principles of international law; 2. Calls for international co-operation to take all necessary measures to: the cessation of persecution by the Kremlin regime of leaders and members of the national liberation movements of the peoples of the Russian Federation; the cessation of deportation and internal displacement of Russian citizens in order to distort the ethnic composition of the Russian Federation; Undisputedly guaranteeing the citizens of the Russian Federation the right to freedom of expression, thought, participation in peaceful meetings, freedom of association, freedom of conscience and religion, and to ensure the free development of traditions and cultural identity of the peoples of the Russian Federation; (4) Addresss the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the GUAM, the National Parliaments of the World States with a call on: consistent support for the Russian Federation's peoples in realizing their right to self-determination and strengthening Ukraine's full support for its victory in the Russian-Ukrainian war with the further deimperization of the Russian Federation and the decolonization of the nations that join and maintain it. Dear friends, there is an offer to support this claim. And our appeal can be described by the ancient Shevchenkov: "Get up, you chains break! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, from the committee, Bogdan Vasilovich, please. It's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u47	Bogdan Jaremenko, 215 constituency, city of Kiev, political party "Serve of the People". Honorary colleagues, the Foreign Policy Committee of October 6, 2022, adopted a decision at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include in the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to adopt it as a basis and as a whole, taking into account technical and legal rights. The decision is unanimous. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the authors of this document, because from my point of view, there is a document that has such a similar weight to the Declaration of State Sovereignty. By means of this document, we think about our role in the world, our responsibility to other peoples. Not only do we think of ourselves as a victim of aggression, we not only see ourselves as a state capable of stopping any aggressor, we are finally talking about our ability to protect and defend other oppressors, other oppressed. Yes, the Ukrainian State cannot feel secure while Russian invaders are in its territory. But we cannot feel safe even when the occupied inner usurper and external aggressor are Belarus, while the temporarily occupied territories of Moldova, Georgia, Azerbaijan. Ukrainian democracy and the Ukrainian nation will not feel free until the peoples of Russia — the Dagestani, the Chechens, the Coins, the Storms, and all. Colleagues, this historical document please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u48	Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, we agreed two minutes from factions and groups. The factions and groups are asked to sign up on this issue. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Zarski Maksim Valentinovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u49	A request to convey the word to Black Jehor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u50	Yegor Chernev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u51	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For 30 years, the Russian Federation has been trying to convince everyone that it is the successor of the RSRS. And what she is exactly the successor of is that she is the prison of the peoples, of the peoples who inhabit the Russian Federation today. Moreover, during military aggression, during the war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, they are also trying to destroy these peoples. In fact, it's the same dagestan genocide, the same Chechens, those storms, and so on. And right now, when the Russian Federation is the weakest because it has entered Ukraine and Ukraine has become a cross between its throats, because the Armed Forces of Ukraine are giving a worthy reprisal to the Russian Federation, right now there is an opportunity for these peoples, the enslaved peoples, with the right to self-determination. As the leader of the Chechen people, the Chechen people, did not say, "Russia will fall when the Ukrainian sun rises." And the Ukrainian sun is coming down right now. And that's why we stand for the self-determination of Chechens, Dagestans, Tubians, Tatars and other peoples of the Russian Federation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u52	Heroic glory! The word is given to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich. I understand, Julia Leonidina Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, welcome. In fact, Russia has been sowing evil, death, and colonization for centuries. And it was naive to think that she would not come to Ukraine, would not start a war, and would not kill Ukrainians. So it was clear that sooner or later she would come here because she came to Chechnya, in the first and second Chechen wars, she had killed 120,000 people, 200 thousand had been wounded, and it was from a million people. And that's what happens to any country, any nation that orbits Russia. Russia colonizes them first, then kills anyone who disagrees with Russian imperialist politics. So, of course, this is a historical document, because we Ukrainians are fighting not only for our freedom and for our independence, but we are giving all the colonized peoples who have been colonized by Russia for the last 30 years, or more, the right to freedom, to their independence. Take advantage of the moment we hold this monster. And we're going to get this monster in Ukraine, and we're going to throw him out into Russia. Take advantage of the moment, get your independence, live, protect your families, protect your lands, and thus destroy this imperial evil that should die and no longer appear in human history. Therefore, we certainly support this decision and will make every effort to ensure that Russia and the Russian nations have the right to self - determination and independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u54	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Kucher Mikoli Ivanovich, the MP's "Trust". Please, Mrs. Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The trust MPs will certainly support this very important, you might say, historic decision. Because it has become clear to all of us today that the Russian Federation is committing genocide against indigenous peoples, using war in Ukraine, mobilizing and exterminating Russia’s national minorities. Russia, at war with Ukraine, deliberately destroys its Nazis and sends them to kill Ukraine. Whether the peoples of Buryatia, Kalmykia, and Mordovia have understood this or not, we will see. But among the officially recognized, already murdered, dead Russian military 40 percent are indeed Nazis. And actually there's a lot more of them. Russia is using war against Ukraine to reduce the number of Nazismites in its demographics. The genocide war against Ukraine should stimulate movements among the indigenous peoples and target them for liberation from the dictatorial regime of the Kremlin. In the victory of Ukraine, a window of opportunity to get rid of the Russian totalitarian dictatorship. We call on the peoples and parliaments and governments of the UN, the Council of Europe, the European Union to support and assist in the realization of the rights of the indigenous peoples of Russia and in accordance with the UN Declaration and numerous resolutions. So our appeal to the international community to support the right to self-determination of the peoples of the Russian Federation is one of the first steps to address this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u56	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, Putin discovered Pandora’s box, which is now virtually unstoppable. In fact, he not only started genocide and ethnocid in Ukraine, he started similar processes at home in this neocolonial imperial Russian Federation. And we're more than convinced that this is a direct and one of the signs of fascism, whose direct followers, this ideology, follow the ideas of Ilyin, Dugin, Solzenicina, are actually President Putin. We realize that we are primarily protecting our territory, ourselves. In addition, we protect European values and European order. We understand that our victory, victory on the front will be directly proportional, will be a cyclical reaction to the corresponding processes of decentralization and self-determination in Russia. But not so many Russians, but small nations need to understand and understand. Otherwise, it will end with the cleansing and genocide of small nations in the territory of the Russian Federation as part of the so - called mobilization. This applies not only to storms, but also to indigenous peoples, Dagestans, Chechens. But this is true of the European peoples, Karelia, this is true of the Khabarov region, where there are many Ukrainians, who are now very actively called in as part of this mobilization, because they are opposed to today's regime of the Russian Federation. So we are convinced that these are inevitable processes. These processes will be bloody. It will not be as peaceful as the Soviet Union was in 1991. But Russia’s defeat in the war and the fall of Putin’s regime is inevitable, and Ukraine has made determined efforts in this report. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u58	Heroim Slava! Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u60	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we make a historic decision, an extremely important one -- the right to self-determination of the enslaved, colonized peoples by this prison of the Russian Empire today in the form of the Russian Federation. And we ask the whole world to do the same. It's very important. Today, Ukraine has broken out of this prison of nations, and with weapons in our hands, we defend our will, and we will surely win. But then we have to not stop, but reach out to those who also have the right to their free lives, and whose right Russia has taken, which is now actually a cancer tumor, because it acts like a cancer tumor, it attacks healthy nations, it turns them into a disease, and it destroys them. Look, it all started with Icheria. In 2000, they finally conquered Chechnya, and after that, in Ukraine today, still unborn Chechen boys are killed by Ukrainians. Because of the Gauliers, the Collaborators, the traitors of their people, like their Field Marshal Don-Don Kadir. Well, what kind of country is that? Friends, they've moved on. And then there was Abkhazia, then there was South Ossetia, there was Crimea, there was Donbas -- the same thing everywhere. Captured, people were turned into meat, and they stopped killing others to take over the new territory. This has to be stopped. The Supreme Council has a draft decree on the recognition of the independence of Iceland. Let's start and make this decision. The deimperization of Russia will begin with the Caucasus. Icekérie's marcho, the Russian Empire must fall, and Kadírov must be executed by the law of the mountains. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u61	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to the national MP Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u63	Pauline Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, we no doubt support this request. We believe that the peoples of Russia, who are now united under the roof of the Russian Federation, deserve better authority. Convinced that our appeal today will come to every nation, every nation that has been enslaved for many years by the Russian Moscow authorities. Convinced that the signal they receive from Ukraine is that the strength and courage shown today by Ukrainian defenders will be felt for themselves, for their actions, for their movements, for their determination and approval of their decisions. I am confident that Ukraine today can become a center for every nation that is now enslaved to Moscow. Today we can demonstrate here in our territory, shelter those centers of national liberation movements that are in many peoples who live in the Russian Federation. And these actions are not just going to be our words and voice statements, but this is going to be the real help and support of every nation, every nation that wants to have independence. I'm sure our appeal will be heard by international institutions, and every nation and every nation after that statement will know clearly that every movement they make, every action they act, will be supported by the Ukrainian state. I'm sure of our victory, confident that our victory will allow each nation and nation to be defeated by the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u65	The word is given to Kisil Igor Petrovich, a deputy group called "Delivery of Ukraine". But I understand they're handing it over to Oleg Voronka. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u66	Oleg Voronko, 103rd District, deputy group "Delivery of Ukraine". Dear colleagues, the Russian Federation now has nearly 200 nationalities, each has its own language, but the number of ethnic minorities is gradually decreasing. The Russian State Machine is a meticulously assimilation of the indigenous peoples, making it impossible to develop another, for Russian, for identity and for identity. In the event of insubordination to humans, what may happen to the Chechen people is that, as a result of the bloodbath and outright genocide, the proselyte forces came to power. We believe that every nation has the right to self-determination, as the UN Statute does. World society cannot be a silent viewer of today’s Kremlin regime’s persecution of national leaders and activists, its shadowy deportation of peoples, and its ethnic makeup. The fundamental rights of these people must be protected. Since February this year, the words "de" have become such a fashionable part of political language. So let's stay in trend. The only possible future for Russia can be its decolonization and deimperization. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" certainly supports this appeal to parliament. We call on other factions and groups to support it as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u67	Please, Your Honor, finish the speech. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction. And I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats because we really are voting on the historic draft of the decree. Please, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u68	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, this is a very important decision that, I believe, the Ukrainian Parliament will make unanimously all the factions present in this room. His goal is to finally ensure that the successor and successor of the Soviet Union, and the Soviet Union was the prison of the peoples, Russia remained the same prison of the peoples, and we will give him the opportunity to do so, so that those peoples who are enslaved by the Russian Federation, who are included in the Russian Federation, who are not in accordance with their will, and who have come there with the arms of force just as Russia has colonized, try to colonize Ukraine, just as Russia is leading the same conquest war against our nation, the colonial war, so that all nations can have the right to self-determination and be freed from this GULAGU, which was created by the imperial regime, the continuation of those traditions, the so-called collectors. They're not collectors, they're invaders. But what I'd like to say is that we're not going to be the first in the list of people in Ukraine to recognize the right of peoples who are colonized by the Russian regime to self-determination. My colleague, Fatherskina, Valentin Nastawajchenko, who headed the Ukrainian Security Service. Thus, in his time of headship, the Security Service was divided into data, where the Ukrainian rebel army decided to turn to the world and allow the occupied peoples of Russia to be released and to have the right to self-determination. So we're going to continue the traditions of nation-building and the decisions that our famous predecessors made and that we're going to try to democratize Russia. We vote yes. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u69	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose to accept, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decree on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to an international partnership to support the right to self-determination of the peoples of the Russian Federation, registration number of Decree 8105. Ready to vote? I ask the honourable deputies to support and vote. [[13:23:48]] For 322 Decision taken. Unfortunately, a leak in the hall is more important than a historic decision. Please, Your Honor, show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, now, one second, I'll just let you know. Dear colleagues, this is the first such decree. We're going to have another vote tomorrow, and I just want to let the faction leaders know, we agreed, the decision is already on the register, so I'm asking you to back it up tomorrow, put it in the hall. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u70	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, your honor, I have a proposal to put to the vote now, as we have done in previous sessions, in order for our discussion, Decree 8105, discussion 8091 to be shown by the "Council" channel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I'm making this offer. Please support and vote, Your Honor. [[13:25:05]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have further agreed on Project 0169 – this is a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Agreement on the Establishment and Statute of the European Public Law Organization, we agreed without discussion, so I'm putting forward a proposal immediately. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Establishment and Statute of the European Public Law Organization (registration No. 0169). Please vote. [[13:25:48]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to come to me with a letter signed by all the factions and groups. This is about the 2022 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self - government. Is it possible to vote immediately without discussion? Let's vote. Signed by all factions and groups. That is why I propose to accept the entire draft Judgment Order in 2022 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self - government (project registration No. 8102). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:44]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill, 8075. This is a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union on the deepening of economic cooperation and the continuation of temporary measures to liberalise trade. Dear colleagues, is it possible to vote without discussion? I'll make an offer to include it. It's 8075. I'll put the offer in the order of the day. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:27:26]] For 311 Decision taken. I understand that there is a common understanding, we vote without discussion. I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Council. I asked you if, without discussion, you waved like that. Dear colleagues, let's address this issue in a simplified way. But if there are no others, we will allow Arthur Volodymyrovich to speak. Ah, they're desirable, then let's do it in a simplified way. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:28:28]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on right away: two in favour, two in opposition. Please record the factions that want to speak. Please, National Deputy Marusjak Oleg Romanovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Who do you want me to tell, Mezentsev? Mezentsev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u72	Give the Mesenese word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u73	Please, Maria Mezenceva.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u74	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A very important vote. What does it mean? Not general philosophies and values, but very specific economic indicators. Pursuant to article 93 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our Committee on European Integration has considered a bill that has been tabled by Mr. Arahamaia, Mr. Gettmants, and a number of co-authors regarding the extension of the agreement on economic issues. It's a continuation of the trade benefits that are applied to Ukrainian goods, it's an increase in our exports, it's the restoration of trade capacity and the support of producers, who, despite the full-scale aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, continue to export on terms of pay, it's also the preservation of existing jobs, and the creation of new jobs. We remember dear friends, statistics on how many new entrepreneurs and businesses were registered after February 24. So we ask for this decision to continue the existing treaty, which has been in existence since May 30, 22nd, and is currently stipulated by the Rules, which will apply until June 5, 23rd. This is the support of the real economy sector for Ukraine to develop, to continue to implement the Association Agreement, and as you remember, this agreement has been extended as a candidate for our full membership. The Euro Integration Committee recommends this decision to the vote. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Devajchenko Valentina Aleksandrovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union. Ivan Grigorovich, please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this ruling stands a little apart from the other documents that we are approving today. It's an extremely important document. And, Ruslan Alexiyovich, one point is missing. In this regulation, it is necessary to add: to the government of the mandate and to the professional committees to ensure that this document is clearly monitored and accompanied by the European Union. Because we have an extremely important positive, effective response from the European community. I'll explain why. Friends, almost half of the budget today is financed by international aid — grants, loans, loans, and so on. But in September, it's half the size of August. I mean, it can't go on forever. Europe is also looking forward to serious winters and trials, prices, energy savings, and these are also additional costs. Millions of our fellow countrymen in the European Union, but up to three years. It's not endless either. The essence of determination and the essence of conversion. We can, we want and we should, and we have to make our own money. And we're ready to do it. That is the essence of this determination and this appeal. It's really what my previous colleague said, he said, it's our jobs, our additional productions, our additional capacities, it's the return of fellow countrymen working from abroad to work. And one more thing. We return at least partial justice, which was slightly discriminated against in the signing of the Association Agreement. Our manufacturers did not have certain points. Fatherland votes in favour. And please support everyone. And the point is, control and co-existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u77	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u78	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u79	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u80	Thank you, colleagues. Of course, "European Solidarity" will support this decision. We are firmly convinced that this once again testifies to our desire to move towards full membership in the European Union and that all trade benefits should continue until we are part of the European Union. I remember when we signed the Association Agreement. It was a personal privilege for me to lead the Parliamentary Committee of the Association. And you know, when a colleague of mine from a failed faction spoke, I was a little surprised when she said it wasn't a matter of values. This is a question of values, because if we ask for benefits, we must also meet the requirements that the European Union has set before us to justify our application and to fully membership: this is also a reform of the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court, and the formation of the IDP and the ICC, and the fair competition of the director of NABU, and the adoption of the Media Act, which does not limit the media, but makes them free, and many other extremely important obligations. Some of them are already being done. But we need to realize that we are not rebuilding a country without real help not only by the state but also by private investment from the European Union and the United States. We see that now all we can export is to the west. Our ports are, unfortunately, blocked until they're released. Some Eastern countries are allies of the aggressor. Our only way to attract private investment to rebuild the same Mariupol, other occupied territories, is to make fair and transparent courts, build democracy and talk about values, not reject them, as some do here now. And it's obviously "European Solidarity" that supports this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u81	Thank you. Please give the floor to Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u82	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u83	Alexander Koltunovich. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the question of deepening integration policy is certainly not peripheral secondary issues, they have economic nature. And even a Eurosceptic like me will still support this draft decision because it's economic. In this. 870 The regulation, more specifically the European Parliament's regulation, refers to temporary measures for the liberalisation of trade, releases a few basic moments, and I will pay attention to this: customs for industrial production, suspension of the application of the system of entry prices for fruit and vegetables. Next, the suspension of anti-dumping duties and import, the suspension of global safeguards. But this is about the external market. I want to pay attention to our internal market, and it is also linked to the free trade zone with the European Union. In the explanatory note to the document you note that 17.9 billion dollars was exports of goods this year, in the past this figure is 26.7. But no one is saying that we have a negative balance on external trade with the European Union minus $2 billion. In this regulation, yes, it is declarative, but we need to look to protect the internal consumer market for certain goods and services. Why not all? In order not to provoke inflation on the most important and sensitive commodities of import and import products. That's the first one. One second. Similarly, we have to reduce this negative external trade balance, also bring other macroeconomic parameters and volumes, and exports, and GDP to the countries of the European Union, because the draft budget for today is 183 euros the minimum wage. We know that it is one and a half in a number of EU countries. Similarly, we have $200 billion -- 500, 1.5 trillion, 3 trillion. In these macro-indicators, the essence of economic policy in foreign trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one more minute asks for a national MP, Dmitrik, and then we go to the vote. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the European Union is today the most important route of Ukrainian exports, the volume of which continues to increase even during the war. Already during the full-scale Russian invasion, we have arranged with our European partners to cancel quotas and import times from Ukraine. These are unprecedented measures that are not even prescribed in the free trade agreements and the Association Agreement. We are grateful to our European partners for their strong support. But it was only until June 5, 2023, a year. Instead, time is running out and the war is not over, and Ukrainian export - oriented enterprises are trying to plan their activities professionally. Therefore, by this decision, we urge our European partners to continue the practice without the customs importation of Ukrainian products until the conclusion of the negotiations on Ukraine's membership in the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union on the deepening of economic cooperation and the continuation of temporary measures on trade liberalisation (registration No. 8075). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:17]] For 301 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next decision, we agreed, don't break up, we agreed without discussion. This is a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the protection of investor rights (register No. 8007). I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Decree 807. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:00]] For 279 Decision taken. The next Order, also agreed without discussion, registration number 8078. This is a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of monitoring the receipt and use of international material and technical assistance in the course of the war (registration No. 8078). I propose to adopt this draft regulation as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:44]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next order. We agreed on the Conciliation Council without discussion, but Arthur Volodymyrovich is still asking. So I have a request, we're only going to give two minutes of the E.S. faction, and then we're going to vote. 8101, this is a draft decree amending certain regulations of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I apologize for the number and personal composition of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please, two minutes. Who's it gonna be, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Let's vote for a reduced procedure to then. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:42:36]] For 253 Decision taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, which one of you will it be? A potter's boy? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. Dear colleagues, two minutes, then we vote, don't break up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u88	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Guys, what are we doing in the first place? Do we even know what's going on? I'm shocked by this decision. We propose to include representatives of the OPCW in the key parliamentary committees. Is that after February 24th? No, do we have any understanding? We're the Gauliers and the Unsuccessful because we haven't reached their areas, are we included in the key parliamentary committees? So let's not stop, let's include Balitsky in the committee on tek, let's include Medvedchuk in the committee on external affairs. He's out there doing some business, so let's officially include him. Why don't we give Medvedchuk a seat? This is ridiculous. We say every Council meeting we begin with what we have died, a minute of silence, "Glory to Ukraine!"and at the same time we leave "Russian peace" in the Ukrainian Parliament, and we give them positions. Are you going to vote for this? How can you explain this to people, explain it to me. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a draft of the Order signed by me, Volodymyr Ariev, Sofia Fedina and your colleague, "Serve of the People", Dunde, which is intended to expel the OPCZ from the Supreme Council. There's every reason, they've been writing statements about the exit of the Faction of the FRA. This is a direct reason for depriving them of their mandates. Instead of sending them away, you're giving this Fifth Column position. What else will you give them? You're saying that we have unconstructive cooperation, well, it's crazy with our own hands of Moscow agents to deploy, give them information, positions. I don't know, we got to the bottom of it. Guys, get your ass together right now, don't make a fool of yourself, finally make the right decision. There's also a front inside, and traitors don't belong in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order amending certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the number and composition of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number of Decree 8101). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:45:45.]] For 228 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next, we have Bill 7737, this is the Customs Tariff Act. We agreed not to discuss it. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Draft Customs Tariff Act (Registration No. 7737). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:46:25]] For 288 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Law (7737) on Ukraine's Customs Tariff as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:46:50]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we discussed it -- in general, but I understand it's the Fatherland faction against it. Do I get it right? Danilo Aleksandrovich, the Fatherland faction versus, in general, I'm putting a cut in the line. Dear colleagues, I'm offering to cut it in half. on shortening the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to prepare for the second half reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:36]] For 285 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. We have the next draft of the Liberation Order. Wait a minute, I have a separate lead here. Ladies and gentlemen, our next project is 8140. 8104, excuse me. This is a draft decision on the release of Shevchenk K.E. from the position of Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the President of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. On October 5, 2022, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the release of Shevchenk Kiril Evgenovich as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. I would like the National Deputies to support a simplified procedure for dealing with the issue. [[13:48:54]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine is hereby dismissed from office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of the President of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for exemption from the post of Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Mr. Shevchenk Kiril Evgenović. This fully fits both article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 18 of the National Bank Act. The release from office of the Head of the National Bank takes place on the basis of his personal statement in view of the inability to carry out further health responsibilities. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, I ask you to support the proposal made, to vote in favour of Mr. Shevchenk's release from office as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u91	Please, Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u92	We considered on the committee the appropriate submission of the President as stated by Mr. Shevchenk: In health he was to be released from office. And, of course, that's an important reason, and there's nothing to discuss here. In fact, we supported that appeal. On the other hand, I would like to point out that I personally supported him with sadness. Why? Because we went through the most difficult times with Shevchenk and his team, leading the National Bank, probably the most difficult times in the history of our nation. This is February, March, and April of this year. On the 7th morning of February 24, the National Bank of Government team was already in place and made decisions that were only necessary and important and effective to keep the bracelet, to keep the banking system, to keep the financial system. In order for people to receive cash from payment terminals, despite the attack, the enemy’s attack is very rapid. The banking system is profitable despite the war. Inflation in Ukraine despite the war is lower than our neighbours, Moldova, for example, Turkey, over other countries of the world. Inflation is consistent with the Baltic countries, and the dollar was so requested, but it's under control. For all of this, I would like to thank the National Bank team for all of this, and I would like to thank Mr. Shevchenk, who led the team that took the hit that took the most difficult hit in the country of time. Convinced, he will remain on the team, find himself in the future, and serve his country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favor, two in favour. Please register with factions and groups, distinguished colleagues. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u94	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u95	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, in fact, the most difficult times in the banking system began in 2014. And in order for this particular structure to happen, this is the institution. There have been so many unpopular laws in this room. In fact, Mr. Shevchenko, the 12th Head of the National Bank in Ukraine's time of independence, has been in the banking system since 1995, i.e. over 27 years, and actually understood and knew what the country was worth, what I was just talking about. So this institution actually kept the relative stability of the currency and the reserves of the reserves both in pre-war and during the war. The pre-war time was also difficult, because in fact all of these cadaveral processes that had an impact on the economy, on the banking system, would have a much greater impact, but the institution works. I also regret to say that he had a difficult relationship with both the President's Office and the Ministry of Finance. We read a lot of his recommendations to the authorities to help him maintain the banking system, and this cooperation did not take place. Unfortunately, he wrote a statement, unfortunately, the authorities failed to agree to talk to him, despite his health, but still try to leave him to run the National Bank. That would be a better decision. You agreed to his release, we'll see what happens next. Nevertheless, I wish to maintain my position at the same level as Kirilo Shevchenko did. And we thank him for his work and the entire National Bank team.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u97	Please, Rocsolana Andrienne Podlas, "Serve of the People." Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I see that we have a new tradition of discussing absolutely everything that is being discussed in the Supreme Council. I think this tradition, it goes something against the state of the country. It seems to me that the issues that are clear and obvious do not need to be discussed from the rostrum, even if someone wants to buy something. Let's make a decision and not waste time. The man wrote a health claim, and there is nothing to discuss here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u99	Please, Zagradni Yuri Ivanovich, deputy group "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u100	Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Leonidovich Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u101	Please, Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u102	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, first of all, I would like to point out that the MP group "For Life and Peace" will certainly support the statement made by the Head of the National Bank. He motivated her by the fact that, indeed, poor health, and in this situation we cannot fail to vote for our release. But I'm a little bit surprised, though, I realize that the state of health may not be good, but it's still good to report to the Supreme Council, the more we work with you in a closed mode and there's no TV. There are some problems that you probably shouldn't talk about on the air during the wartime of the National Bank. We understand how much pressure is being exerted on Ukrainian national currency, what is the problem with lending, what is the problem with budgeting, and in this context I think it would be worth hearing a report from the Head of the National Bank, who is leaving his post. We should personally thank him for the work that has been done in the last period and discuss the things that we have to build with the new Head of the National Bank, how the Supreme Council should support both the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank in this situation. I have repeatedly talked about the need to restore the time of government, the need to communicate with the government, not just to vote with closed eyes for the laws that the country needs. We have to have a dialogue. In that sense, I am stressing once again the need, and it is very strange to me that the Head of the National Bank has not found the opportunity to say good-bye to the Supreme Council in this high office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u103	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, after this we will proceed to the vote, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u104	Surely there is nothing to discuss here if a person has written a statement. Except for one thing: One way or another, every release of Nazbank's head is a drama. I remember at least three of them: Gottari, Smoliya, and now we have Shevchenko. And every time, it was accompanied by some kind of drama. Now this drama outside Parliament is probably good, but still. And despite all this, I really want to thank Nazbank's team, not only the Head of Nazbank, but the whole team for keeping the economy going. Anyway, the payments worked, the banks stood still, the bracelet insisted that at least we would have a completely different situation right now than inflation. And it is true that in many countries, including the European Union, inflation is now greater than in the warring Ukraine. That's why Natzbank proved they were an institution. And the best option is to change the table at the door of the Head of the National Bank and change the surnames, neither we as politicians nor citizens just didn't notice. But this determination, of course, we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 8104) on the release of Shevchenk Kiril Evgenović from his post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:00:15]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you, Kiril Evgenovich, for your work and recovery. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues to remove inaccuracies and inconsistencies in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 September 2022 of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2022. During the drafting of the adopted text, it was established that it contains two new editions of article 38 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. The Budget Committee at its meeting on September 30, 22nd (meeting protocol No. 140) proposed a proposal aimed at eliminating inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the adopted law. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, an offer is made to the Hall for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The text of the corresponding proposal for the settlement of disagreements was provided electronically through SEDO. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give the floor one minute at a time to the national deputies: Yuzanini and Razumkov. After that one minute, dear colleagues. One minute after that question. That's why I give Nina Petrovney first, then Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please, Nina Petrovna, then Dmitri Alexanderovich and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the point is, when we've been looking at this bill for a long time and agreed to 47 amendments, it has key words for setting the cost of the road fund to meet the defence sector's needs first by the end of the 22nd year. And then there was really another standard of up to 50 percent for reconstructing international pass points. Now the committee has proposed an editorial that I think is totally unacceptable, because up to 50 percent of the defence and construction sector, the construction of car passes means that you can spend 2 bracelets and that's going to be considered up to 50 percent. So what we were talking about at the time is that we're supporting defense first and spending the rest of our money on building roads. Now it's completely changed. I'm the author of 47 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Dmitry Aleksandrovich, then let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the bill was voted in favour because there was a rule on first-time financing of the Ukrainian army. What they're trying to do today is the floor. First of all, the Supreme Council did not vote for this. Secondly, the norm is as follows: up to 50 percent. Zero per army is also up to 50 percent. If you vote for this right now, we'll have something with you that will blush in front of our Armed Forces. And the money will go back to the treasury, not to the needs of the Ukrainian army, our protectors with you. So think about what you are doing. The committee today actually burned that bill that was voted in the walls of the Supreme Council. This is what was voted for when it came to the primary use of funds in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Today, again, we are moving on to a large construction site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal initiated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues to remove disagreements and inaccuracies in the text of Ukraine's adopted Act amending Ukraine's Law on the State Budget for 2022 (Registration No. 7669). Ready, colleagues? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:04:37]] For 255 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have the next bill (registration number 8027). This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the creation of a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression (registration No. 8027). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:05:24]] For 267 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:05:44]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've already agreed to a discussion, so two, yes, two, against, and then we're voting. People's factions are asked to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please give the floor to Ukraine's National Deputy, Natalya Igorovni Igorovni, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Dmitri Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u111	Please, Artem Dmitruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the essence of this bill is very simple and understandable: to create a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression, the sources of which will be seized by Russian assets. We're approaching the final model of nationalization of Russian property. Hopefully, it will be implemented very soon. It is only logical that the funds resulting from this should go into two ways: financing the Ukrainian army and the defence complex, as well as rebuilding the Russians. So we need to make the right decisions in a synchronous manner so that the appropriate model of cost participation works properly from the very beginning. This will allow us to move quickly and effectively. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u113	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevni, the "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Pasic Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u115	Please, Alexander Pasicky.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u116	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, from the first days of Russia’s full - scale invasion of Ukraine, the invaders have subverted the attacks that have caused significant damage to our infrastructure. Russia’s war crimes have taken place since the first day of the war. Thousands of civilian facilities, hospitals, Medusas, residential buildings, transport infrastructure, population facilities, and buildings are being destroyed by the invaders, and settlements in Ukraine are being bombarded. In view of the full - scale war that the Russian Federation has solved and is leading against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, the terrible consequences of hostilities, damage and destruction, there is an urgent need for financial security for the reconstruction of objects. Russia has to pay and pay for the war and compensate for all the damage. The proposed bill proposes to establish a Fund for the Elimination of the Effects of Armed Aggression in 2022, which will be filled with money and funds derived from the sale of forced removals of property rights by the Russian Federation and its residents. These costs will aim to eliminate the consequences of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine. These are constructions, reconstructions, capital repairs of war - torn public buildings, civil protection facilities, critical infrastructures, and others. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchisin, the Voice faction. Please, Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the initiative to create a restoration fund for Ukraine is very good for me, and my faction supports it. The only small nuance is that we are now saying that the confiscated assets belonging to the citizens of the Russian Federation should go back to recovery. And that's probably good. I mean, I think that the cost of the reconstruction, sorry, of the confiscated funds can only go for two purposes: to finance the army and to finance the damage caused by the Russian Federation. They can't go for other purposes. But when we look at the version of the law to the second reading, who could not read it now, there are only five points. We can see that from five points, two points do not apply to reconstruction as a result of the aggression of the Russian Federation. What does that mean? This means that de facto you can spend up to 100 percent of your money on things that are not related to the damage done by the Russian Federation. So, colleagues, I am actively calling for the second reading to amend this law so that, specifically in each of the five paragraphs, it is stated that funds can be spent for purposes related to damage caused by the Russian Federation, not for purposes that are not linked at all. Just for example. Paragraph 2: Renovation of critical infrastructure facilities related to water supply, water supply, and heating. Yeah, it's really important, it's got to be done, it's got to be allocated, but it doesn't say that these are objects damaged by aggression -- "a"; "b," here, let's say, they're talking about funds confiscated from the Russian Federation, and they only need to be wasted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u119	Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Irina Vasilovna Frez.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, this bill I ask you to read carefully the contents, not just to push the green button. The bill contains corruption risks that were identified yesterday at a meeting of the committee of profile. So it doesn't fit the existing anti-corruption legislation. He creates discretionary, that is, unlimited powers for Kabmin, who will, in his own discretion, agree with the procedures and regulations when transferring and using the funds of the fund. If we speak in general, the idea is absolutely relevant, correct, and necessary. And "European Solidarity" supports the very idea of creating an appropriate fund. But we demand that, for the second reading, appropriate standards that contain corruptive factors be taken away by the authors and duly prescribed in such a way that they comply with current legislation. I would like to point out that this bill has interesting rules that, for example, do not provide for a transfer, i.e. it does not provide for an entity from the Ukrainian side to which the property rights of the confiscated assets will be transferred. I don't think it's necessary to say how these assets will be distributed among their own. The bill also contains an interesting rule on the transfer of assets on a temporary basis. At the same time, this so - called temporary basis for the right to agricultural knowledge is not regulated by the Ukrainian Code of Masters. As appropriate, discretionary powers, legal uncertainty and inadequacy of anti-corruption legislation do not allow European Solidarity to support the bill in its first reading. I also invite all my colleagues to read the contents of the bill carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Budget for 2022 on the establishment of a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression (project registration number 8027). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:14:57]] For 258. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8027. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:24]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 8069. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of the withdrawal from the market of a systematically important bank under military conditions. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies please vote, Bill 8069. [[14:16:03]] For 289 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the issue begins. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:16:29]] For 288 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:16:51]] For 247 Decision taken. We agreed, with a discussion: two for, two for, two for, that's why. From the report? Yes, then I invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Daniel Alexander Gettmanchev, he's both from the authors and the committee, four minutes ago. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to dispel the myths and fairy tales that accompany the adoption of this bill. We're not going to eliminate or stop any large or small banks in our country, or the banking system is stable, the lending is increasing, the deposits are increasing despite the war, and the liquidity of the banking system today exceeds the liquidity of the banking system in peace times. At the same time, we have a war, and at the same time war creates risks, risks to which we must respond adequately. Risks that we need to avoid with mechanisms for responding to such risks. One such mechanism is a procedure, a simplified procedure to get the bank out of the market. Again, it's not about liquidating the bank, it's about not ending the bank, it's about transferring the bank to the state for one bracelet without having to recapitalize the bank, because there's certainly no resources to recapitalize it. But after handing over the bank, which is insolvent, to the State, to ensure its functioning, to ensure that its liabilities to customers and investors are fulfilled. By the way, I would like to remind you that you and I have passed a law according to which investors, their deposits are provided by a hundred percent at the expense of the Wartime Guarantee Fund. In doing so, according to our bill, the fund will not change the size of the statutory capital of the insolvent bank, the denomination of the shares of such a bank, nor will it exchange the bank’s financial liabilities on an additional issue. Instead of exchanging shares and their subsequent redemptions, the State is imposing an end to the bank’s obligations to the supervisors and owners of a substantial shareholding in such a bank, as well as to the subordinates. Please note this term: "subsanctioned persons." It's in this context, and I know that many people in this room understand what I'm talking about is very important. So the National Bank supports this bill. The bill is also supported by the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers. We have proposed that the committee adopt this bill as a basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the committee in our decision given to the people's deputies. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u125	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this bill. Please. National Deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the Voice political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u126	Please, Ironman Jaroslav's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u127	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I think all wise people understand what kind of bank this is about. Unfortunately, this information, including that of the press, is now a very large outflow of capital from this bank that lies on the shoulders of the state. That is why it is desirable for this bill to be voted on as soon as possible. It's number one. Item two. I know about the concerns of our colleagues about how this law might affect the withdrawal of other banks. Here we may need to mention the banking law that we passed at the beginning of the pandemic. I'll tell you this: the National Bank has as much authority as the regulator, that they're any bank, if they want to, they'll come out like this. Hence, this law does not strengthen or weaken the position. Third. As a nation, we already have an example of the nationalization of a large bank called Privatbank. For this nationalization to pass quickly, and above all, without loss to the state and beyond, it was not reflected in the international courts to draw money from the Russian oligarchs, not from Ukraine for what it seems to be compensation, but also the regulations laid down in the committee's decision. We met twice by the committee, including with Minnesota, to explain. Therefore, it is true that this bill is desirable to vote now on the basis and in general. And I'm sure that the fears that you could read and sound, they don't make sense because all of these things were prescribed in the laws. And let's speak plainly, the subsanctioned large system bank we have only one. And once again, his name, I think they all figured it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u129	Please give the word to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, the faction of European Solidarity. I understand so much that Nina Petrovyn is a Southerner.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u130	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u131	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we must agree that any information relating to interference, external interference with the work of banks, prompts the reaction of all citizens. And we know that today we're just going to talk, and there's already a reaction to one of the banks. Maybe the draft law that's being put forward has a positive purpose in identifying this simplified algorithm in situations that may unfortunately happen in the banking system, but the fact that this bill has caused a mixed message for citizens, we can't take it off the scales either. It seems to me that the very name of the law, just when the author reported, said that this was not about getting a systematically important bank out of the market, and that's what the law is called that. And it's about how the procedure provides for the bank to be transferred first into the Deposit Guarantee Fund and then the Nationalization of the Ministry of Finance, even if it deserves attention and criticism. At that time, some other procedure that clearly says that the bank continues to work changes only the owner of the bank. You didn't have to write about systemicly important banks, because by definition now there are 14 of them, and we have the names of these banks. And now both we and people have doubts, and who, this only one bank concerns questions or many others. So we actually hoped that we would work on this draft law for the second reading, but it's so complicated that the hall wants to vote for it as a whole, so we won't object to you voting, but "European solidarity" certainly can't support it in that way. He needs work to take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u133	The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, after this we are moving on to a decision-making process, I ask the national MPs to take their seats. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we must always be honest with our citizens in our work. I think that, on the one hand, this bill, we can't allow the outflow, which means that our citizens from other systems are saving our banking structure in Ukraine. On the other hand, we cannot allow the Russian oligarchs to earn money in Ukraine under the conditions of military aggression. That's why we're going to support it on the first and the basis, and in general this bill. We hope that this bill will not harm those banks that systematically create a stable, stable, and hopefully a stable banking system in Ukraine. But at the same time, we want to remind ourselves that soon the ninth month of war, and dozens, if not hundreds of Russian-related companies, are still active in Ukraine. This is, I'll call them some: "Oriana" (the chemical enterprise in Kallus, owners of "Lukoil" and Mamedov), the Mikolai Agricultural Plant (Deripasca), the Cromat Ferrous Plant, energy distribution companies, shopping centers in Kiev, brockards, sports masters and so on. But I don't have enough speech to count them for you. So I would like to remind our colleagues of the Supreme Council that the President, in his recent address to us, said that we should nationalize these businesses in Ukraine and not allow them to continue for nine months, as they say, before Parliament could give birth and forbid them from earning money in Ukraine. So let's do this and, without delaying this promise, the more it was sounded, this proposal, from the mouth of the President of Ukraine. This bill we're going to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats! Honorary colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of the withdrawal from the market of a systematically important bank under military conditions (registration No. 8069). Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:28:41]] For 278 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of the withdrawal of a state-of-the-art bank from the market (Registration No. 8069). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:29:18]] For 254 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Next bill, 8045. This is a draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts concerning the privatization of state and municipal property under tax and ensuring the administration of the payment of tax debt. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:29:58]] For the 250. Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:30:19]] For 233 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, report, or immediately: Two for, two against? Come on, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Ruššin, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Ironman.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u137	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, in fact, it's a very simple law. It refers to how to fill the government budget relatively quickly. We have companies that, for various reasons, are sometimes fairly corrupt, by the way, have been led to a large tax debt. Now it's about 2 billion, if not more. If we leave the procedure as it is until we pay off the tax debt to a state enterprise, or state, you can't privatize it. There's no money in the state, in the enterprise, that's all, because most of them were robbed. What does this bill say? That we, as a nation, can sell an enterprise, including a tax debt, that is, a burden, but the person or company that buys this enterprise is obliged to pay this debt within six months. We are solving three problems at the same time: the presence of this enterprise in a state that does not generate profits for us because it cannot even pay the tax debt; the repayment of a private investor's tax debt, which is additional money in the budget; and the third is to accelerate privatization accordingly, at least, about 41 enterprises. The bill was supported by the Ministry of Finance. The bill of conduct was supported. I'm a tax man. All of it. We don't expand, we don't shorten the list of enterprises. We're just making the state make at least 2 billion dollars this year. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u139	The word is given to Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunović, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group. Please, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u140	Please pass the word to Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u141	Please, Mother Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I fully support the speaker who presented the bill, but he didn't tell the whole story. This law is meant to mean that a transaction is to be made, a tax liability. Notice, I emphasize my commitment. It went through, signed the papers, everything else. He accepted this new owner’s obligation to pay the tax debt, but he failed to comply. Well, this has happened, objective, subjective reasons. What will happen next? He will or will enter a factory, making a tax obligation. At the hardware factory. He took out the equipment, sprayed it under the metal as often as possible. Then he gave up that obligation, he didn’t pay, and we lost the equipment. Dear colleagues, there is a mechanism of a healthy idea. But we have to work on it to the end in order to fail to fulfil our obligations and responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u143	Thank you. Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, MP. Oh, I'm sorry, the "European Solidarity" faction. Dear colleagues, after that, we move on to making a decision. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u145	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the authorities have always been very cautious about government companies that themselves declared tax obligations and for some reason failed to pay them. But I think a few weeks ago they started privatizing everything that's in the state, and you think that's right. I think it's completely wrong. And there have already been the first trades, where we see how our so - called investors, or Ukrainians, are chasing after them, who know very well how to deal with the authorities and then buy them. It's very strange to hear again the same rhetoric that all state-owned enterprises need to be given into private hands. Well, why are you so approachable? Well, let's look at our neighbors, countries that have gotten more in the economy than we do, and have better success in the privatization process. I said then that there are a lot of companies that play a big role in social life. And I've been asking the Cabinet of Ministers recently not to sell a profitable enterprise that's very important to me, it's a strategic enterprise for me, it's a flat market for the same region. But we've got so old procedures. Please understand that in 2012 there are procedures for defining criteria for enterprises that can be considered strategic. So we're at war time, we're not responding to modern challenges at all. And so now that we're talking about privatizing a tax-debted enterprise, I'd be very careful here. What will happen if the debt is not repaid in six months? What's going to happen and who's on it. This was not the responsibility of the executive authority before. We now want to give the possibility of privatization through law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, now Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, one minute from the "Serve of the People" faction, and then we move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, to this day these businesses, which are covered by this bill, do not pay taxes to the state budget and will never be able to pay those debts for a few years. It's a road situation. On the one hand, the state cannot sell this nonprofit enterprise, on the other hand, the state cannot get the debt. In doing so, there is management, which is certainly profitable, but only in its own pocket. So the only comforter is the director who sits in the chair of this company. We suggest that this situation should be changed: debts are not cancelled, debts are set aside for six months, and this is the condition of the contract, and the default is the basis for the termination of the contract and the return of the enterprise to state ownership. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u149	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts concerning the privatization of state and municipal property under tax and to ensure the administration of the payment of tax debt (Registration No. 8045). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:39:26]] For 229 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8045. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:39:55]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The lines are not shortened. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next Bill 6097. We agreed, he's out of the question. So no one's going to make any amendments, that's the second reading. No, it's the first reading, sorry, it's the first reading. But no discussion. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on Electronic Identification and Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 6097). Please say this is a Euro-Integration Bill. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:40:52]] For 274 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6097. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:41:17]] For 241 Decision taken. The next is also without discussion, dear colleagues, and I ask you not to depart. I'm making an offer. This is Bill 5643. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code on Liability for Violations of Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights (Registration No. 5643). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:42:07]] For 267 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply line and the licenses to prepare for the second reading. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, out of procedure, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u150	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, we supported this bill. But just so you know, we're making changes right now with regard to liability in the Criminal Code, but we don't have a basic law yet. So I don't think we should cut the lines right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u151	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. He won't be accepted even until the time of the match, because he just ended up on the committee, and I think it's completely unrelated to each other. But I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5643. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:12]] For 229 Decision taken. Yes, dear fellows, the next bill we also agreed that this second reading would not be amended. 6222, draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Elimination of Discrimination against a Sender for Violations of Weight Control Requirements. I therefore propose to adopt draft Law 6222 as a whole in the second reading with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:57]] For 277 Decision taken. The law is to be passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next bill, 8067. It's a draft of the Act of Shareholder Society of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session, 8067. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:31]] For 241 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the issue begins. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:56]] For 221 Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. Well, we didn't cut the line, so it's going to be on the line for the next time. Moving on, this bill is not being considered today. That's too bad. Dear colleagues, the next bill, 7508. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the mechanism for private investment by using the public-private partnership mechanism to speed up the restoration of war-torn objects and the construction of new objects related to the post-war reconstruction of Ukraine's economy, 7508. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:10]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-against, right? Please, two in, two in, two in. Write down those who desire to do so, dear fellow believers. Please give the floor to national deputy Kozir Sergey Vyacheslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u152	Please pass the word to Galina Yanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u153	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u154	Comrades, good afternoon! I ask your support for this bill, because today we have an incredible opportunity to make a real contribution to the reconstruction, the future reconstruction of our country. You all know and see with your own eyes what the extent of the destruction of infrastructure is. We're talking about medical institutions, education, energy, roads, bridges. And it's obvious that our budgetary capabilities and budget forces are not enough to rebuild this infrastructure quickly. So today, both the President of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine are talking about the importance of involving private investment to rebuild Ukraine's infrastructure. And the reform of the state-private partnership is precisely about this. Let me give you just a few examples. For example, about the destruction of medicine. During the 7 - month war in Ukraine, 826 hospitals were damaged by the enemy, and 127 of them were completely destroyed. If you build, for example, medical infrastructure, with exceptional budget costs, it could take you decades. It is therefore crucial to enable private investors, both Ukrainian and foreign, to help Ukraine recover, rebuild. It's also about creating jobs, it's about involving new technologies and know-how. So I very much ask your support, and I invite everyone to improve the draft for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Tzabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u157	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u158	Colleagues, there are some technical comments to the bill, but knowing the persistence of Galina Yanchenko, it is better to vote in the first reading and then work together on the committee to the second. But in general, this bill is really asked for by business associations, and if we can do something during the war to involve more business in all spheres, including from military and medical, it is the simplification of the state-private partnership that is one of them. So let's vote. That's the worst thing we can do, but better yet, I think it'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u160	Please give the word to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u161	Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the philosophy of the bill is necessary today, it is important, and it is a real mechanism to improve the involvement of private investment using a public-private partnership mechanism. You know that this law in this room has already been voted out, but time has changed, tasks and demands have changed, including the issue of the state of war that we have today, and the reconstruction of the state. The bill contains many amendments that have been made on individual committees and that have not been discovered today by the mechanisms that we should consider in the first reading. The work between the first and the second readings is going to be very big work, and we talked to Mrs. Galina today, and we talked on our committee. Because today, changes to the procedure and drafting of bills are also leading to a change in the mechanism. Changes in the procedure and preparation of these small municipal projects should also be improved. I want us to really work between the first and the second readings out of the effectiveness of removing potential corruption risks. There are more than 14 pages of notes. A warning today is given to GNEU, sorry, 19 pages. Today, the Committee on Ecology, the Committee on Education, Science, and the observation of the State Department have concluded. This bill, I hope, will be adopted in the second reading. If we take all of these warnings into account and properly introduce the system's regulations, the mechanism, it'll allow you to increase investment, it'll also allow you to increase involvement. And most importantly, take down completely corrupt risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko. Dear colleagues, after that, we move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u164	Please pass the word to your colleague Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u165	Please, Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u166	Thank you. Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, let's really figure this out, because both the name and the password and the terms are great. Something really needs to be restored, done quickly, effectively. But I'm drawing your attention. First of all, it's a really powerful copyright team. Sometime again, 40 deputies signed there, distinguished Mrs. Galina Yanchenko, other active deputies. Everyone wants to rebuild something, everyone wants to use public-private partnerships. Not bad, but let's read the comments of the GNEU, about which a colleague of Cuba just mentioned, 14 pages professionally, well, in fact, sorry, they're breaking this bill with such a powerful copyright team. And the first question. Is it clear that both the government, the MPs, the secretariat, and the assistants, and the experts in the 225 days of war, understand how our infrastructure is being destroyed at this time, cannot write a quality document that does not contain such a huge conclusion by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of Ukraine? And once again I want to say, the Fatherland faction, I'm personally, our leader, we understand very well, we need to rebuild. But this recovery cannot turn into another money - laundering mechanism by its companies, its contractors, both at the state and local levels. And all the procedures that are laid down in this bill are for setting up a business for wives, brothers, weddings, besties and so on and so forth. So, I'm sorry, we're thinking with you, but we have a lot of doubts.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, also National Deputy Antonina Prijejsko, and then we move on to acceptance. And one minute, there'll be Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Then we move on to making a decision. Please, Foreigner.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the need to adopt this bill dictates the very life and circumstances in which we now live. We are faced with the task of rebuilding tens of thousands of public buildings, hospitals, kindergartens, and we are working on some mechanisms. One such mechanism is a state-private partnership. But the thing is, this model is fairly bureaucratic and provides for a rather complex, consistent and long-term procedure. This is justified in peacetime because such a procedure creates certain safeguards and mechanisms to avoid corruption. But now we have a slightly different time, we have a war, unfortunately, and we need to work on other mechanisms that would challenge the procedure and give us the right to rebuild our destroyed public buildings, gardens, kindergartens, hospitals. So the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group will support this bill in the first reading. For the second reading, we're going to work on all the inaccuracies that are now being developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u169	Please, Coltunovich. Then we make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u170	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! I support the words that have been said today regarding the restoration of all those objects that need to be modernized and restored to this day. This is also a question of building new objects related to the postwar reconstruction of the economy. But to tell you the truth, it's a very questionable mechanism for involving private investment with a public-private partnership mechanism. In fact, it's worth to understand that today this element is virtually not realistic. That's the first one. The other one. In general, involving any investment in Ukraine's economy today in today's state of war conditions is actually zero if not minimal. In my opinion, something else has to be an economic, macroeconomic and monetary concept. We've been discussing the resignation of the Head of the National Bank today, and accordingly, the interest rate policy of the National Bank on the accounting rate, on credit, on mortgage lending, and so on. So from this point of view, this has to be a slightly different set of measures, just for the reconstruction of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this issue, and we are moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as part of the first article of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the mechanism for private investment with the use of a public-private partnership mechanism to speed up the restoration of war-torn objects and the construction of new objects related to the post-war reconstruction of Ukraine’s economy (project registration number 7508). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:57:14]] For 245 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply line and the amendments to prepare for the second reading on. You don't have to, do you? All right, I'm sorry, then the question is off. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next bill 7712. This is a draft of the Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:57:59]] For 263 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:58:20]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether we can.? Let's do two, two, against. Please record only the factions that want to speak. Please sign up. Please give the floor to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u172	Please give the word to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u173	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The faction "European Solidarity" proposes to approve as a basis and generally this bill with technical and legal rights. The purpose of the bill is to bring the law into line with the changes that have taken place in the legislation on households and in relation to the corporation of state energy companies. Section 2 of article 11-1 of the Law provides a similar standard for state enterprises. And it is appropriate for a military state, when there are no risks, to accept changes to the law. Under the conditions of full-scale armed aggression and the need for large-scale enterprise costs to restore the energy infrastructure of the law, it will create favourable conditions for the use of targeted funds, control systems, and efficiency of Ukraine’s energy systems. It will also ensure the achievement of strategic goals for the state, the implementation of investment projects, and the key thing is that we can control the priorities that need to be done at one time or another, even including a period of risk. In addition, given the high technological complexity of energy objects, their construction, we're talking about modernization, reconstruction, over a year ago, and it's worth a lot of money: shopping outside Ukraine, risk courses. In this regard, we suggest that we generally support and approve the changes. This will enable efficient management of both the cost and the energy system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u175	Please give the floor to national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Roxolani Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u177	Roxanne Andriyevna, please, Podlas.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u178	Colleagues, this is a very short and very simple bill, which tells us that for energy enterprises, particularly for Ukrhydroenergo and Energoatem, the rule is that dividends are paid after they have made their capital investments, which are provided for in the financial plan. I think that's what we need to do to enable them to develop and invest in their core funds. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u179	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction. Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, thank you for your opportunity. I'll tell you now. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I'm going to try to explain to you what this bill is really about. First of all, I point out that the Ministry of Finance is very cautious about this bill, warning that in its implementation, the budget may not receive a significant amount of money at the level of 2 billion dollars. I'll tell you how this happens. Last week, Mr. Vitrenco, the beloved monocoal manager, traveled around half of Ukraine to piazza on the construction of so - called blacksmiths and TECs on a reed. So he says we don't need gas, gas is very expensive (but it's not very expensive in Ukraine), so let's all go to the crash, and I'm going to go with NAC "Naftogazu", says Vitrenko, I'm going to finance these projects. Well, that's great. I don't even want to talk about technical, economic justification right now, about the tariff that's going to be on three, but I'll explain what's going on. Vitrenka, instead of extracting gas or paying taxes and dividends to the state, spends money that he considers to be excessive in his accounts, building all kinds of objects that are highly questionable without a proper financial plan, without permission from the government. Well, what is it, please explain it to me? The budget, what, is it unnecessary? We have too much gas, is that what the population is collecting and paying for gas, is NAC Naftogaz using for other projects? And this law is intended to allow such as Vitrenco to finance these questionable projects where money is washed away instead of payments to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, the final speech is Julia Leonidovna Klimenko. Then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the bill is made up of one line. So please, let's vote yes. We're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u183	Beautiful. Optimistic conclusion of the discussion. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property (registration number 7712). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:05:29]] For 249 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7712. Please vote. [[15:05:56]] For 218. They're not shrinking a little bit. Next Bill 7735. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise to improve the administrative and administrative provision of judicial expertise. I'm proposing to include it in the agenda of the day session. [[15:06:29]] For 216 As long as we don't bring it into the order of the day session. But, dear fellows, anything we haven't brought in today, we can bring in tomorrow. So please don't. Be optimistic. Dear colleagues, next bill 6134. This is a draft Consumer Rights Act. 6134 is a European integration bill. I'm offering to consider it as a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:07:20]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Let's do it then. What I do, I don't want to, either, but we have people who want to. Leave them after that? We can't. Rules don't allow it. Please sign up: two in, two in. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, don't split up, there will be two Euro-Integration Bills now, I'm asking you to support them. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Veliczovich Mikoli Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u185	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u186	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The European Solidarity faction will support this bill. The project proposes to implement a number of European Union directives and regulations. First. Identify principles on which consumer rights are based, in accordance with EU principles. The other one. This is to extend the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act to the food sector in part of the consumer's economic rights in online stores, marking the price of food sales. A list of information on the products and subjects to be given in the course of electronic commerce and the responsibility for the lack of such information and the responsibility of the service provider is also provided. We're also talking about allowing the Maintenance Service the right to contact the Internet service provider to restrict access to websites. They are also exempt from their responsibilities and adequate stock exchange funds are being set up. At the moment, consumers are entitled to trade in goods for one or the same if the repair of the goods purchased by the consumer requires more than 14 calendar days is not available. GNEU comments. Between the first and the second readings, it is proposed to create a register of declarations of electronic commerce subjects, but the project is difficult to understand what declarations are being made. And we have to make this clear between the first and the second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u187	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u188	Please hand over Anna Lichman.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u189	Please, Mrs. Litchman.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u190	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As noted by Stepan Ivanovich, this bill is designed to bring national legislation on consumer rights closer to European Union legislation and to harmonise the consumer rights system with the principles and approaches and practices of the European Union. Colleagues, the adoption of this law will allow compatibility between the consumer protection systems of Ukraine and the EU, increase the level of consumer protection in the field of electronic commerce, create a level playing field for electronic commerce by operators and for honest competition, reduce business burdens by eliminating outdated standards, and eliminate the possibility of unfair commercial practices. It should also be noted that this bill foresees the introduction of mechanisms for the pre-trial alternative settlement of consumer disputes. I would also like to add that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion of October 29, 2021, does not deny the possibility of adopting the bill. At the same time, there must be a point to its completion. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union, in its conclusion, notes that the bill does not conflict with Ukraine’s obligations under the Association Agreement and requires some further work. In its conclusion, the Committee on Economic Development had reached such a decision that it had been recommended that the draft law should be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u191	Thank you very much. Please, Your Honor, the final speech, Jaroslav Romanovich Juršin, and then we will move on. And then there'll be Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, and then we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u192	It's a little short. We're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u193	Maximum. Thank you. Please, Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u194	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. This bill will be supported by our faction. Of course, it's progressive, it has this particular feature, it fits European standards, and it really protects consumers, and that's good. The only thing I saw very carefully was that he was dissatisfied with the professional associations, the providers, which are those structures that, in fact, think that they were a little bit deprived of some rights, of the ability to protect consumers. So, given that we have to support them, that this is a small, medium-sized business that we have to support, we really need to consult with them in preparing the second reading, with profile associations, and take into account their normal proposals and really go to a normal bill. We support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and let us move on to making a decision. Before I make a decision, I'll have one small trailer. In order for you to understand, the current Consumer Rights Act was adopted by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic in 91. So I have a big request, let's make a real path to deradating legislation and make a Europeanized law about consumer rights. So, dear fellows, I bet. I can't even scream on the microphone, guys. Dear colleagues, I propose the adoption of the draft Consumer Rights Act (Registration No. 6134). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:15:06]] For 272 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6134. Please vote. [[15:15:32]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill is also Euro-Integrated, is a draft of the Collective Agreements and Contracts Act. I'll bet. It's 7628. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:16:02]] For 224 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-con? Or we can. Can we? Arthur, come on, look, come on, everybody. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two factions require no. Okay. Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please, Maksim Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u196	Please give the floor to the colleague Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u197	Please, Galina Mikolayevna Trelyyakowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u198	Thank you, dear friends. It's really a Euro-Integration Law, set out in the new edition of the Collective Contracts and Agreements Act. He solves a lot of problems for the labour community and the labor community in making such collective agreements. In particular, we today have the problem of artificially removing newly created subjects of the collective agreement. This bill decides that. There is a problem with the formation of joint representative bodies. This is also provided for in the bill. There is uncertainty about the scope of collective agreements. This law cleans it up. In addition, we have ongoing problems when the absence of a wager in some areas leads to the failure of such collective agreements. The Ministry of Economic Development has made collective bargaining statistics, and we can see that the number of collective agreements has dropped significantly over the last five years. From the figure of some 60,000 in our country, it has decreased by nearly 20,000 such collective agreements. This indicates that the social dialogue at the company level works incorrectly and that labour groups do not protect themselves by creating such collective conditions. Moreover, collective bargaining does not take into account the processes that are now taking place in the context of decentralization. And this bill also solves these problems. It is a great request to support him because he is fully in line, and according to our headquarters, Mrs. Stefanishina, European conditions and directives. Please vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u199	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u200	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u201	Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u202	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, this is a really important subject, and we strongly support the very idea that we need to bring these things to order. And indeed, the old edition of this law, adopted in 1993, which is long overdue and does not meet the conditions of today. Yet, friends, there are a number of comments to this bill, which are expressed in the form of GNEU. And the main thing is that we're actually in article 21 of the project we're proposing to exclude the current positions of article 7 of the law on the participation of the labour force in the formation, distribution and use of the income of the enterprise, if provided by the statute, and changes in the organization of production and work. And the position of the grant guarantee is narrowed down only for those who are directly signatories. It seems to us that this is not in line with European standards. We say it's a European law, a European integration law. And EU legislation, in particular Article 153 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, establishes that, in order to achieve the objectives of the Union, it supports and complements the activities of Member States in the areas of representation of the interests of defenders. Protection of workers and employers. So, my friends, I have a request. I can do this for so long and this, but the right direction is very important. But let's, if these are Euro-Integration laws, make them immediately so that there is no doubt that they really meet European standards, they really do match the way it was adopted in the European Union, which is our future, and I hope that it is very fast. And this flag that stands in our rostrum should really be our guide. So now we're going to hold on, and we're going to urge, if he doesn't get the votes now, to work on, if he doesn't, let's work on the second reading. And to the fullest extent, it should be European, not in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u203	Please give the word to Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u204	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice. Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u205	Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u206	For.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u207	That was Mr. Cabal's speech. Thank you very much. Please, there's still the Fatherland faction. It is written down, but it conveys the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, this is the case, they say, of slowing down. I don't understand that the Cabinet of Ministers, without consulting the social partners properly, passed a bill. Look, this is a violation of the 87th International Labour Organization Convention -- the right to freedom of association, the violation of Convention No. 98 -- the right to collective bargaining. The bill does not explain many things and does not improve, on the contrary, it does not make sense. I propose, in this case, to consult EcoSoCom, the Economic Social Committee of the European Union. We want integration, and we don't need any mistakes and we don't need to tell us that we're in a hurry or making mistakes. Then this bill stipulates that the terms of the collective agreement will not extend to all members of the labour force. How's that? Will part of the people of the labour community be left outside the regulations and enforcement of the collective agreement? So look at how parliament works now, the more in terms of war, we can't properly make all the necessary legislative decisions regarding those challenges, and people at their businesses, their institutions can through brief negotiations conclude collective agreements to resolve both social issues and others. Now here's the next one. It provides that a joint representative body will be established to negotiate on behalf of the team. It's not clear how many joint representative bodies there can be, and how does the employer determine who to work with, if the 87th, 98th Convention foresees that the unions represent people who are hired to negotiate, and it's not clear that there's going to be a substitute for some other public organization? How? It doesn't have one either.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats and prepare for the decision. Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Collective Agreements and Contracts Act (registration number 7628) in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:24:57]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:25:22]] For 222 For 202. We won't. We'll be looking at Euro-Integration for longer – never mind. Thank you, colleagues. We have also adopted this important bill as a basis. Then, colleagues, we agreed, almost all the rest of the laws -- this is the second reading, without amendments, there will be only one or more amendments. No, I'm saying a few. I'll just talk, and we'll make decisions. So please don't split up. 7673. We agreed no one would make any adjustments. This is a draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act on the conduct of demining work, including during the war. Did I put it right? Therefore, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical amendments, the draft Law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act on Mine Action, including during the War State (project registration number 7673). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:26:37]] For 283 Decision taken. Next bill, 6230. We agreed, too, that no one makes any adjustments. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving civil protection legislation (project registration number 6230). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:27:17]] For 274 Decision taken. Next bill, 5270. Is someone going to be okay? We can vote. I'm making an offer. They will, won't they? Nina Petrovno, call the repair number immediately and then justify it so that we can find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u210	Let's start with 9 revisions. And in general, it seems to me that all of our draft laws have colleagues who know their essence, because this change is certain of tax legislation, it's very important today. It was this draft law, already prepared for second reading, that much changed about e - residents in fact after the first reading. Because when we said that this necessity was caused by the fact that we're being approached by atheists who can open accounts in Ukraine and work through the Ukrainian bank without being Ukrainian residents, we've now allowed all non-residents to open accounts, do all kinds of activities, including trade in goods. It seems to me that there is some kind of ephemeral expectation that someone would be, in general, violating their own legislation, doing trade, opening accounts in Ukraine, at a time of such instability relative to what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 9th amendment, authored by Nina Petrovna Jujanina, was rejected by the committee. Nina Petrovna asks to be taken into account. I'll bet this amendment on it. Please vote. [[15:29:07]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, do you have any more? Here's the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u212	The following amendments 44, 45, 46. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u213	Please give two minutes instead of these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, it was very difficult, you did not vote on the 9th amendment. I don't mind the state taking the money out of the air. If we had succeeded in opening accounts and working through Ukrainian accounts, they would have paid 5 percent of the tax, and banks would also be tax agents that would keep this tax and pay us in the budget. But my 9th amendment was about giving our own entrepreneurs, the FOPs of the 3rd group the right to be e-residents, because they basically do all the cash-free work, so they don't have any problems with our verification bodies, and the bank that would keep them taxed and reported on them -- that would be enough to keep our entrepreneurs from being checked. And unfortunately, you're willing to give someone extra benefits, preferences, I don't know who you're talking about, but you've left yours unaccounted for, and unfortunately not. That's why I'm making these adjustments, by the way. We're on the first reading, I'll repeat it again, we've only accepted activity for the Aitish, and the author of this draft law has explained this very necessity. I don't understand why for our FOPs we're not taking steps to meet right now, and I'm not talking about cashiers that are still intact, and it's not clear whether we have to use them or not. Still, we make such concessions for someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u215	Thank you. If possible, the brief position of the committee, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u216	Nina Petrovna, if you want to make it, it'll be a separate law. And I'm not sure it's a good idea to give our tax access to bank secrecy. This can lead to a reverse result. Briefly, what's the law about? There are a lot of foreigners who want to work as Ukrainian electronic residents. This is first of all very popular, because after Estonia we're going to be the second country to do it. Secondly, we do have a large number of these people, of course, thousands of people to whom we speak, okay, work and pay money in the State Budget of Ukraine. Well, about 10 million, God forbid we collect. This law supports Minfin, tax, Natzbank, Mincifre. Guys, we're not going to make this law any worse, and we're going to raise a little bit, but still, money into the budget, and we're really going to show that we're a divisive country. So I'm asking you to really support this law, it's done with your accounting, and I'm sure it'll show a good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u217	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, we don't put these to a vote. Are you going to perform? You have three more amendments. How much longer, two more minutes, huh? Two minutes, Nina Yuzanin. Will there be no one else? Then we go to the vote. Please, Nina Petrovna. Invite people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u218	Colleagues, I don't take these amendments into account, because the law is rewritten for second reading. It's true, it's taken into account all the criticism that's been in this room. But at the same time, you're saying that you're not sure that entrepreneurs want us to give access to the bank's tax secret. What's with the tax? Where do you see a tax ear here? If the National Bank is a tax agent without disclosing the information before tax, it maintains the tax and reports to such an entrepreneur. So don't twist it, please. I don't think we're doing anything for our entrepreneurs right now. Is that why you're sending me to file a separate bill? Why, then, do you allow yourself to be rewritten into the second reading quite the opposite of your draft laws, as will be the following? And by the way, this bill that we're looking at right now has been proposed as an experiment in the Transitional Positions of the Tax Code to predict all of these norms. But for the second reading, you can imagine that the body of the Tax Code has spread rules that, well, whether they work or not, do they actually work, or do they actually conflict with international legislation, it's still not clear. That's why I am, despite what you're saying, supporting everyone. I'd support him, too. And I support those projects where we can take the money out of the air. But don't forget yours. First of all, their entrepreneurs are now reinvigorating. And small businesses started to work. When you talk about 50 percent of the economy being restored, it's small and medium-sized business that's restored because they're faster, and they can respond faster to all the challenges. Thank you. I'm not betting on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our second reading of this bill. No one insists on their amendments anymore. So I'm making an offer. People's deputies, take your seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and some other legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation of entrepreneurial activities of e-residents (project registration number 5270). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:35:03]] For 252 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill we also said on the Conciliation Council that there would be no discussion is 3361. Well, don't make it. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the first steps of deregulation through civil liability insurance. I offer to accept it in the second reading and in general. Do you want confirmation? How much do you have, Nina Petrovna? Please begin with the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u220	The point is that the whole law has been rewritten in the form of a single amendment. And in this one amendment, I am concerned about only one point, and I would ask that these words be removed so that there is really a deregulation in the field of fire safety and responsibility for the lives of citizens who may be affected by small and medium levels of danger. That's right. Well, that's a major correction, I'm on it. 2nd. Oh, oh. 8 amendments, I think the author probably knows more. Here you have to make sure that the amount of insurance under the insurance contract cannot be less than 20.1 million dollars and 13.4 million dollars for small-risk enterprises. Because that means you're going to have to pay $134,000 a year or $201. And it's quite obvious that now, when.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, the 8th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Getmantsev and colleagues. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, that's not true. The amount is determined by the market voluntarily. And what's more, don't believe us, you open a committee meeting where two insurance associations say that for a small business, if he wants to, and if he wants to, and he's now, it's going to be about 200, 200 conditional units, 200 dollars. What Nina Petrovna says is that I ask you very much to support this amendment, it's important, that the amount is, how much it pays. An example. No matter how much you insure a car for civil damages insurance, but there's an amount, at least if I'm right, 150,000 dollars, it can't be different. So it's set up, it's agreed with business associations, business associations that represent insurers, DDSNs, Mineconomy and others. Please support this amendment, it is important and business for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, you have heard the argument of one side and the other. The 8th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Getmancev, Iron, and others is considered by the Committee. At the same time, Nina Petrovna asks that the committee take such a stand for confirmation. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. So I'm putting 8 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[15:38:30.]] For 236 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. Nina Petrovna, we agreed, one amendment. I offer to accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the first steps of deregulation of business through civil liability insurance (registration No. 3361). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:39:26]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next bill, 6101, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the efficiency of economic operators. We agreed that there would be a 47th amendment being made by Dmitry Alexanderovich, yes, please. You won't, will you? Can we put this bill up then? Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! I propose, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the efficiency of economic operators (registration No. 6101). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:40:23]] For 235 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The following, too, agreed without making any amendments, 2515. It's a draft law on introduction. 2515. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Administrative Responsibility for Illicit Trade in Fuel. Duhtkov Dmitry Alexanderovich. You didn't say anything about that, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u224	Ruslan Alexiyovich, we said, here are two revisions and one in the next bill because they don't apply to these laws. If we're talking about these adjustments, this is number two and number five. One of them excludes the possibility of being relieved of administrative responsibility by passing on material on administrative offences to the public, organizations, or labour groups. And 5 fines, the possibility of being relieved of administrative responsibility in a minor offence. The question here will not be answered by this bill and sufficient debate. So I'm going to ask you to put number two and number five on confirmation. And I don't support them, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare two amendments for confirmation. Amendment No. 2 of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee counted it. The National Deputy of Razumkov is asking for confirmation. So I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 2. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:42:15]] For 232 Decision taken. The factions. Next amendment of the Medyanic People’s Deputy. It is considered by the committee, but the national deputy of Razumkov is asking for confirmation. I'll put a 5 on confirmation. Please vote. [[15:42:46]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Strengthening of Administrative Responsibility for the Illicit Trade in Fuel (Registration No. 2515). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:43:29]] For 260 Decision taken. The law is to be passed in general. Next bill 7365. This is a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Strengthening of Administrative Responsibility for Violations of the Arrangement and Use of Registration Signs of Means of Transport. We agreed, one Amendment Bat, one Amendment Reasonable, and we vote. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u226	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, please place number 97 on account of the amendment. We keep this amendment valid for the moment by providing citizens with license plates for means of transport. Simply put, we leave behind the State the right to a certificate of registration of means of transport, and to a license plate right behind the government authorities. This position, I think, has support for quite a bit of the room. If it is not counted, we will not vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you. Please place number 97 on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u227	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Now before I give my word to the committee, it's, this amendment, partially taken into account, you insist on taking this amendment fully into account. What is the position of the committee, please, Medic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u228	The committee fully supports the proposal of the Batenka People's Deputy and asks that the amendment be fully supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u229	Thank you. Dear colleagues, that's why I am. See, once again, 97 amendments to the national MP Batenka Taras Ivanovich. The committee counted in part. Taras Ivanovich asks for full consideration, the committee does not object. Therefore, the honourable colleagues put 97 amendments in the full edition of Taras Ivanovich Batenka. Please vote. [[15:45:21]] For 276 Decision taken. Now let's move on to the adoption of the law. Oh, excuse me, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u230	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, number 88 of the People’s Deputy Pauluk. We even talked to the author, and they agree that this amendment does not apply to this bill. It refers to what allows the National Police to sue the Court of Appeal for an administrative offence provided for in article 130 of the Ukrainian Code, namely the management of a transport vehicle or a ship in a state of alcohol, drugs, or other drunkenness. That doesn't fit this bill. That is why the authors agree. If desired, a separate bill can be passed, voted on, and supported. But this bill does not apply. So that we don't create colonies, I suggest we don't support it or take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-06-m0.u231	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I think it's a good idea not to do that, too. Thus, 88 amendments to Paul’s people’s letter are partially taken into account. The National Deputy of Razumkov puts it on the stand, you've heard the argument, that's why. I understand that the committee does not object to this amendment. So I'm putting 88 of Paul's amendment, which is partially counted, on the vote. Please vote. [[15:47:00]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Let's move on to legal decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Administrative Responsibility for Violations of the Installation and Use of Registration Signs of Means of Transport (Journal of Law 7365). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:47:45.]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next Bill 7444. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I understand, the air alarm has been declared. Well, then, friends, come on, I have an offer. Dear colleagues, then let me declare what needs to be done. Everything we haven't got, we'll do tomorrow. I apologize for such things. Dear colleagues, the list of issues that were previously agreed upon, we have done virtually everything. So thank you all. The day’s agenda is closed, interrupted by air anxiety. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We work together to win. And the glory of Ukraine!
