ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our decisions: the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under military conditions and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on February 24, 22, as proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexanderovich Zelenski, is taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council. I'd like to invite you to the President of Ukraine's meeting room. Hello. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are participating today in our video session of the European Commission President Ursula von der Ljaen. Hello, Madam President. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, attend the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please welcome the government of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the Chamber of diplomats of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there is the Ambassador of the European Union, Head of the EU Representation in Ukraine Matti Maasikas, Ambassadors of the European Union Member States, delegation of the Inter-Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Austria, Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to our good tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the State Hymn Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are now serving for the fifth month of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine. In response to Ukraine’s sign of candidate status with members of the European Union, the enemy has subtly increased the shootings that are primarily responsible for civilian casualties, and the most terrifying is the death of Ukrainian children every day. The barbaric rocket strikes on Kremenchuk, Lisichansk, Kharkiv, Kyiv, Zitomir, Dniper, Mikolayev and other of our population sites reaffirm the fact that Russia is not a place among the civilized world. Tonight in Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk district, about the first night, a rocket strike in a multi-story residential building has already killed 18 of our citizens and 31 of them, three of them children. Such crimes do not last long; evil will certainly be punished. The Ukrainian people will not break. Therefore, I would like to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of our compatriots who died as a result of Russian armed aggression. and the courageous advocates and protectors who gave their lives for Ukraine. Their Kingdom is a heavenly and everlasting memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you and please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am delighted to invite you to the first word of President Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Dearly Present! The new history of Ukraine and the European Union has begun, and we're not around now -- we're together now. Not two neighbors, such as borders and barriers, but one European family with common values and common destiny. And it's not just words, it's not eloquent, it's not some expectation or some political calculation there, it's a legally established status. Ukraine has become a candidate for accession to the European Union. 115 days between the submission of the Ukrainian application for entry and the European Union's response is a record short term. We were united, just as we were for our defenses, we acted in unity, just as we were for the protection of our nation, our land. We did not stop for a moment until the European Council adopted a positive decision, just as we did not stop for a moment until we won the victory, the victory of Ukraine. [[Applause]] We realize that Ukraine's European integration is a guarantee for all generations of our people to live free and secure lives based on the best human values. And that is why it is an honor, a great responsibility for each and every one of us to participate in the realization of the European aspirations of our nation. What is 115 days? That's a lot of things: hundreds of negotiations, meetings, phone calls, hundreds of shares, rallying, concerts to support Ukraine and our application, hundreds of approved decisions. These are hundreds of different updated procedures and thousands, thousands of pages of an ideally filled questionnaire that we got from the European Commission. It wasn't easy, but we did. Congratulations. [[Applause]] We have created an extremely strong foundation that no one else can destroy and on which we can make our European future our present. Ukraine is fighting for its valuable choice — to be an independent state in a large family, a free family, a new family, a European family. The Ukrainians are forced to defend their independence, the security of every human being, that Ukrainian mornings begin not as tragic as today's Russian rocket strike against Odessa and the area, with numerous victims, and that Ukrainian mornings are as peaceful as the mornings of every capital city in Europe now in the 21st century. I very much want all those in positions of state today to accept their duty to work for the sake of European choice as a struggle for our state, a struggle for Ukraine, for you and me. We have to prepare the state before the start of membership negotiations as intensively and as responsibly as we prepared the application decisions. Today the flag of the European Union will appear in this Hall. [[Applause]] And it's not just a beautiful gesture, it's not just a symbol, it's supposed to be a symbol of our task, it's the task of all of us, all of us branches of power, first of all. There will be no breaks in our work to approve any decision that is necessary for Ukraine’s European path. And so these are the decisions that will benefit Ukrainian society, Ukrainian families, Ukrainian citizens. The acquisition of membership in the European Union is not just a geopolitical or a political pursuit, it's specific things, it's specific advantages that benefit every person's life in Ukraine, every company, every state institution. In recent times alone, we have made no transportation, no airline, and we have had as much open access to the European market as possible without taxes and quotas. We have joined a joint European energy network and now have the power to export to the countries of the European Union. [[Applause]] This is a revolutionary solution for our economy and for our state. In turn, there's a customs visa, a digital visa, which is Ukraine's accession to the Digital Europe programme. We need to speed up the work on industrial carnage. And of course, we usually have to reach a decision to cancel the pay for roaming between Ukraine and the countries of the European Union on a permanent basis. [[Applause]] The European path is just such a decision, each of which strengthens our state and each of you. Together, they create new opportunities for all of Europe. The realization of Ukraine’s potential makes Europe stronger — stronger! - along with Ukraine. Many decisions will depend on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on each of the deputies, on how much you, honourable national deputies, are willing to work for this path and on how many government officials will work in coordination with you and with our diplomacy. The association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union has already been implemented by 63 percent, and 37 percent of it remains a task for all of us, for our state. But you have to develop, protect against colleagues and adopt dozens of important bills. It's not going to be easy either, but there's no alternative. Even if you know that you won't raise applause with one decision or another, but if this decision is necessary for this difficult European path of our nation, you have to make such decisions. Today we sign a joint statement that is a signal of the unity of all branches of government and a testimony to our determination to achieve the strategic objective of Ukraine, namely, full membership in the European Union. And signing this statement is the same as signing an application for the fifth day of the war. We went to apply 115 days, and our path to membership is not to take decades, years. We have to get through this fast. As far as possible, it is up to us. To do our part, we have the perfect opportunity to allow our friends in the European Union as quickly as possible, so it is consolidated to approve another historic decision for us. Let's sign it. [[Applause]] I would like to invite the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council and the Honourable Prime Minister. Now you can have your applause. [[Applause]] Okay. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today I want to thank every European nation and every leader who has applied for our country. [[Applause]] There must have been so many negotiations in such a short period of time. But all of them, all of these negotiations were subjective, all of them thoughtful, sometimes unforgivable. And I want to thank you all, our Kabmin. Thank you so much! [[Applause]] Everyone and everyone and everyone knows. And really, it's a complicated job that's actually been successful. And a great personal contribution to this success has been made by Ukraine’s great friends, who are, remain, confident, and will be our great friends. This is President of the European Council, Charles Michel, and President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Lyaen. [[Applause]] And today I have the honour to invite Mrs. President of the European Commission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ursula, I want to thank you once again for your leadership in, indeed, building this powerful, strong historical relationship between Ukraine, between Europe, really, which has become our new history, a new European history, a common European history. Glory to Ukraine! And the word Ursuli.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Volodymyr, Mr. Golovo Stefanchuk, Prime Minister Schmigal, members of the government and honourable deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Thank you so much for inviting me to your special session. A few days ago, on the day of the Ukrainian Constitution, President Zelensky, you, Mr. Volodymyr, said that your victory was near, it was near. And, of course, the Travel Army continues to kill your brothers and sisters, they continue to occupy your land, they steal your grain, and they destroy your cities. You're defending yourself very bravely. Europe will be as much behind Ukraine as it takes. We will not rest until you have defeated the enemy. Your brave men on the forerunner weigh their lives in order to defend their land and their people. And behind the front lines, millions of Ukrainians are fighting to support them in the back, so that their country has a brighter future. It's a very brave generation. They have visions. They see free Ukraine as part of a European family. I can see it very clearly when I come to you today. You've kept your state, your democracy. She's alive and alive, despite all the trouble. When I came to Kiev twice, I saw with my own eyes from the beginning of the war, how you worked Parliament even in the most difficult times, when bombs were falling directly on Kiev, and you were building barricades to defend even the Council's premises. Ukraine applied to the European Union a few days after the attack. And yet you've been able to give us all the information just in record terms so that we can have a reason to do what we did. We have worked days and nights to support you, but it is your efforts that have led to this success. You have mobilized not only your institutions but also your best people and your country’s highest energy. Thousands of civil society experts have shown what Ukraine has achieved from the Dignity Revolution. And because of these efforts, you have earned the approval and respect of all the member states of the European Union. This is an extraordinary sign of trust. Ukraine now has a clear European perspective. Ukraine is a candidate country for accession to the European Union. This seemed incredible five months ago. So today, most importantly, we have the opportunity to celebrate this historic milestone, the victory of determination, the victory of commitment to the cause, the victory for the entire movement that began eight years ago in Maidan. You've gone so far since 2014, you've decided to choose democracy, life in the rule of law. And this choice of Ukraine has already made for itself, for its own good. Mr President, you once told me that everything that Ukraine would do for EU membership would do so. Because that means a modern-day flourishing country, just like you wanted to have. And the next step is everything within reach for you. But there will be a need for diligent, sincere work, commitment to the cause, and above all unity for the purpose. Today, the international community is mobilizing support for your efforts to rebuild your beautiful country. The next Monday, together with President Zelenski and Prime Minister Schmigal, I will participate in the Lugani conference to rebuild Ukraine. Your European road, the reconstruction of your country will go side by side, Ukraine will lead forward, huge investments will come to your country. And in order to strengthen this influence and to foster business confidence, investments need to combine with a new wave of reforms. And you've set your agenda, your reform agenda, and you've done a lot. So fight corruption and you will defeat it. Prevent corruption. This has been your task since the Dignity Revolution itself. You've created a mind-blowing machine to fight corruption, but now this institution complex needs real teeth. And it is necessary for these institutions to be led by the right people to be the Attorney General of the Special Prosecutor's Office, the new director of the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption. They should be appointed as soon as possible. Take steps to reform the Constitutional Court. Legislation also needs to be chosen by judges as recommended by the Venice Commission. The institutions must live so that they can truly be true of the actions of your people. Let's think about the impact of oligarchs, the excessive impact on the economy. Today, Ukraine is the only country in the Eastern Partnership that has passed legislation to dilute the ticks of oligarchic power on the economy. Now we need to focus on the implementation of this law. And in a legal way, it's appropriate, given all the conclusions of the Venice Commission that we're looking forward to. Media law is also needed to combine Ukrainian legislation with the current standards of the European Union, which governs the regulation of independent media devices. So, in summary, honourable deputies. You've already approved a lot of laws, you've set up a lot of institutions. Now this has to turn into a positive, forward-looking, lasting change. Of course, reforms always take time. That's how democracy works. You need to be careful, work around the clock. For example, no one expected you to have people in your new offices who would have to go ahead and take up arms. But you're on a certain road, you've shown that you can pass the right laws, even though the war is raging. And every day has an extraordinary weight. You know how much work you have left. The word "Council" means the Council, where they advise, where they counsel and acquire common wisdom. I am sure that your common wisdom will serve Ukraine, serve Ukraine when it comes to reforms and the future of your country. So today I came here with a very simple message: a long road ahead, but Europe is on your side. Step by step, we will follow our path, passing a bad hour until you open the door leading to your bright future in the European Union. I believe in Ukraine's European future. The reason for that is simple. The reason is that Ukrainian people are eager, they're determined, they're passionate Europeans. You want to make a European dream come true in your beautiful country. And as President Greensky said in his speech, I quote, "Europe is not there. Europe is here. It's in your head, it's in your mind." When Europe is in your mind, then it will come to your country, it will cross your threshold. So your country is your future. And you're the only one who can do it. You should change this country for the better, and this will be your final victory. Free, prosperous, alive Ukraine, the sovereign Ukraine, which will finally be reunited with the European family. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we aim to achieve full membership in the European Union. We understand that the granting of candidate status does not mean an immediate accession to the EU, but we have a very difficult path ahead. But we are sure that Ukraine will do well to overcome it. In these days, the words "Ukraine is Europe" have spoken a thousand times. They're so deep in meaning to us because today we're protecting our enemies from not just Ukraine, we're protecting all of Europe, we're protecting democratic values, we're protecting our human right to freedom, we're just trying to decide our own destiny. In the Ukrainian Parliament, there was a dream that even in this call, Ukraine would get a clear legal definition from the EU: Ukraine is a candidate for accession to the European Union. And so that the flag of the European Union could be added to this room. Today, this has become a reality. Therefore, I ask the National Guard of Ukraine to introduce and establish the flag of the European Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Heroim Slava! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it suits both colors and meaning, don't you? Dear colleagues, let us thank the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexander Zelenski, the Honourable Madam President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Liain, the Prime Minister and the Government of Ukraine, the Ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union for their participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council and the ceremony for the introduction of the flag of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Let's start with pleasure. Today is the birthday of the people's deputies Kabachenka Vladimir Viktorovich of the faction of Fatherskin and Yuri Yuriovich Aristov, "Serve of the People". [[Applause]] We wish you good health, fruitful work, as Ukraine’s fastest victory. And more money, Yuri Yuriovich, to all of us. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed that today we would work in such a format that we would have time to speak from representatives of the MPs and groups. So if you'd like to sign up for a statement from the rostrum, please. It's been three minutes. Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Platform for Life and Peace. Which one of you will it be? Coltunovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The declared vector of economic integration certainly needs structural economic reforms. In this regard, we will have concrete proposals, first and foremost to the economic bloc of the government, and to the National Bank to form an appropriate institutional basis for deepening integration processes. First. These are the economics that have to provide a specific macroeconomic forecast. It has to be updated, they do it, and it has to be medium-term with the achievement of sound and specific macroeconomic parameters. This is about the volume of exports and imports of goods, and overcoming the negative external trade balance, and GDP per capita, and much more. The other one. Minfin must provide a new Budget Declaration. Budget policies must meet the challenges of time. And from this point of view, it's precisely the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine in the Budget Declaration that we have to point out new indicators for the income, expenditure, marginal deficit, which will be a government debt, and borrowing, which is not important. Third. The National Bank, which also has to integrate and smooth its policies with the European Central Bank, is also required to provide appropriate forecasting in monetary policy on the account rate, on the gold reserves, on other parameters that are precisely there. an exchange rate aimed at deepening integration processes in Ukraine. Next moment, fourth. Finally, the government, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has to provide a comprehensive programme for economic recovery and technological recovery. Because without economic reforms, it is very difficult to deepen and implement them in the external economic sphere. Next moment, five. Of course, the progressive implementation of European technical regulations and standards, what the President said today, is 63 percent. That's very good. But we have to understand with you that in order to really integrate them into life, there has to be an economic basis, adaptive models of macroeconomic and monetary nature. Because, for example, when we take a vehicle, we have to match our transport, freight, and environmental standards. If we take food, they have to meet the requirements of veterinary, sanitary, and phytosanitary control, which are also entirely different financial economic resources. And most importantly, without economic policy, without structural economic reform, we will not be able to compete in the external and internal consumer markets. In international integration processes, however, this is most important because they compete with domestic and external owners. So once again, without a new macromonetary policy and an integration policy model. In this regard, we ask for all these documents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u7	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, "To the future," Anna Constantine's Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Indeed, it is a pleasure to become a candidate for the European Union. But we need to keep in mind that to do so, for full membership, we need to work very hard and accept very many changes and reforms, including in Ukrainian legislation. You know, I'd like to emphasize the unpleasant things that we don't really like to talk about right now, but they're present in our society, they're present in our country. And you know, after the last trip to the front and front seats, I'm just, you know, overwhelmed by emotion. First, there's a sale of humanitarian aid in frontal cities. And nobody's changing that, nobody's controlling it, nobody's fighting it. People are gathering, Europe is collecting a charity for us, people are sacrificing, people are taking away from themselves, and we just have a charity in many cities that's being sold. This is unacceptable today. Secondly, I think everyone has heard this morning that we have the Cabinet of Ministers want to reform forestry and make it possible to fully corporateize forests and then transfer them to private property. This is unacceptable, but in a warring country. We need to understand that forests belong to the people, and we must not interfere with these issues today. Next. You know, I've seen that when there's a total fuel shortage in the military, when the military decides who goes where, because there's no diesel, in the same town of Zaporozhye, it's just a way of driving utilities and watering holes or watering trees in huts. Tell me, where does communication with local authorities go? Who's in control? Why doesn't anyone do anything about it? You can't let that happen in a warring country, because we're losing things and opportunities that could give our soldiers even more momentum to victory. Therefore, we need to raise these questions so that local authorities can cooperate properly with our military and our volunteers. Local authorities also have to help volunteers, because there are a lot of questions when, for example, boys repair large trucks on the WTO, help our military, and when there is a need for repairs in command times, no one is helping them. Dear colleagues, our victory depends on it, and so does we.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u9	Thank you, Anna Constantine. Yes, "Delivery of Ukraine," please, Kisilov. Who's going to perform? Ephimov, please. Welcome. The "Deliverance of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u10	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! During the last week, many breakthroughs took place. We were told, "Yes" in the future, membership in the European Union, transportation failure, commercial electricity exports to the EU, 144 of our heroes, Ukrainian supporters, returned home. At the same time, the enemy did not stop the terror; he continued to attack a peaceful country, our civilian population. We, the Parliament of a warring country, will not stop the fight for truth and justice for a second. The Ukrainian Union MP Group believes that the key to the success of our fight is unity and mutual support. Last night was the International Day of Parliamentarianism. Our Supreme Council is not the first time in its time of independence at critical times for the country to show justice and wisdom. Despite the factions and factions, there is no cuneiform power to the opposition, we are the only political team called Ukraine. This is a manifestation of true patriotism. Gentlemen, I truly believe in the potential of this Supreme Council. Not only do we have to put out fires on all fronts, but we also have to move the country through reforms. By the new year, we have a homework to strengthen the EU's candidate status through real steps: seven sound lines in anti-corruption policies, judicial reform, issues of national minorities, the Media Act. The Ukrainian Liberation Group stresses that Ukrainian authorities and our European partners can count on our full contribution to this process. At the same time, we look forward to a presentation of the new Ukrainian Marshall Plan, which will take place in Switzerland in the daytime. As we rebuild Ukraine after the war, which will be transformed and changed, the answers must be now. We also propose to make an official presentation of this conceptual and fundamental programme at the next meetings of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u11	Thank you. "Serve of the people," Aleksiychuk. Ruble. Yes, please, Vejacheslav Rubleov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, Mr. President! Today, reforms are always needed in order for the country to develop and move forward. Sadly, however, in military times there are reforms that can harm our country’s progress and development. Today, my fellow national deputies and I know that this is a reform they want to implement in the forest sector. During the war, this reform can destroy both the sector and we will lose the country's economy. Because as early as 2001, existing state forestry companies had reached their best in 30 years, they had paid record 8.9 billion taxes on all levels of budgets. It is estimated that five months this year, from 7.3 billion to 8.5 billion during a war in the woodlands. Appropriately, this shows the efficiency of the work. Today we know that in the wartime, woodchoppers are helping our troops, our border guards, which are fortifying our borders, and most of all, the foresters today are also fighting alongside the military in the direction they need. Today, Kabmin wants to set up and form the only Nazi company that will lead to the centralization of all taxes. Last year we carried out a decentralization reform, a reform that was needed and most successful in our country. Today, if we take these taxes from local communities, we will lose the gains that were. Today, most of the communities and Carpathians, Carpathians, Volini, are based on the fact that they receive the necessary funds from businesses. Most importantly, I want to say that we will not allow the forest sector to be destroyed today. We believe that Kabin will not make such a decision. And our appeal, the deputies, will be answered by both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. I'll give it to Ollie Smogluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u13	Dear friends, we have learned with indignation about the plans of the Cabinet of Ministers to form a single unitary commercial enterprise instead of legal persons - individual forests. In addition to the record payments to the state budget that have been going on in recent years, as well as the help of the army and the population in the settlement, the evacuation, and so on, forests have a major social function. This decision, which is to be adopted by the government today, is directly contrary to the forest strategy by 2035, where it is clearly written that enterprises are individual legal persons without the right to further privatization. We already have a devastating experience of the Ukrainian horsery, a corrupt enterprise that is going to privatize, Ukrispirt. We don't have to come with you to the same rakes. I warn Kabmin of such a shortsighted and destructive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u14	Thank you. "The Voice," Klimenko Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Today we have a very difficult task, ahead of us, in front of the whole country. On the one hand, we have to fight, on the other hand, we have to build. And these two processes need to be done in parallel without stopping. And if we need weapons to fight, the heavy weapons that we ask of all international partners, and we urge you to also ask all international partners. It is a heavy weapon to win on earth, to win in the air, and to win at sea. To unlock our seas and eventually unlock our ports and feed not only Africa and Asia but also many other countries. But the main task is with you and me in the back. To build and enable people who have lost their homes, who are forced to move temporarily to other territories, to provide them with housing, normal living conditions, warmth, schools, and jobs. These are the four main blocks on which the Cabinet of Ministers should focus and all of us are taken together. Unfortunately, at this point, we don't see any programs talking about how we're going to bring back 6 million people who have gone abroad. No social programs, no return programs. We don't know if the school will open on September 1st. The Ministry of Education can't clearly say whether children can go back to school, and whether parents need to come from abroad with their children, or whether they should be sent back to school abroad. At the moment, between the first and second readings, you and I have something stuck in Bill 7198 about damage to property. He can't get to the hall in the second reading, although many people in the Kyiv region, for example, either in Chernigivsky or in Sumska, have returned to their communities where their housing was actually destroyed, but they don't even know what to do, how to calculate the damage caused by the Russian Federation. We draw with this law. We don't count damages, citizens can't understand how to do that, and we lose the chance to document these damages and then get them as reparations from the Russian Federation. So, colleagues, we call on executive power, and we all focus on four main points. The first is housing for citizens. It's warm for citizens It's school and social infrastructure. And the fourth is work. People lose their jobs, people lose their wages, the economy stops, and they stop paying for both municipal and other payments to our citizens. So please, let's just focus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u16	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Or "European Solidarity," which one of you? Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze. Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, at no time do Russian atrocities stop. And now, in these moments, there's a rescue operation in Bilgorod-Dnistrowski, in Odessa, where rescue workers get from the collapse of the victims of another Russian missile attack. We see that this is the price of our choice for freedom both for independence and for democracy. Without success in the battlefield, the Russian forces try to terrorize us and intimidate us with this terror. But I want to answer this by the author of the world's first Philip Orlik Constitution: "No matter how big the violence of Moscow is, they don't give the Moscows any legal right to Ukraine." And in that way, colleagues, 300 years -- not a few months. And that's how long we're going to fight Moscow. And it is not just a struggle of two nations, for it is a struggle of civilizations, a struggle between good and evil. And it's up to us now, from our mobilization, that it's up to us to work together and to fight together that we can survive, and whether we can realize that dream that we've come so close to. That's why we're like "European Solidarity", as statesmen not only for 115 days, but also for the previous eight years, before the historic decision of the European Council to grant us the status of application to join the European Union. We're talking to you, colleagues, we can't have any other way but to introduce quality, immediate and rapid European integration reforms. The terrible losses that we are experiencing impose a tremendous responsibility on us because the better men and women on the front are now dying, whose position has helped us to move the country to change. We have to triple our efforts with you, and this job has to start now. And we just heard Mrs. Ursula, President of the European Commission, remind us of that. Let's not pretend that we don't understand something, because we have now, right now, to assign new paratroopers, independent paratroopers both to SAP and NABA. We have to continue anti-corruption reforms, we have to take into account the conclusions of the Venice Commission for the implementation of law and individual laws. We need to take into account the opinion of the opposition, build strong independent institutions, and ensure a balance of power. That's the only way we're going to win and be able to finish what we started during the 14th Year Dignity Revolution, and ensure Ukraine's entry into both the European Union and NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u18	Thank you. Fatherland, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, 128 days of war in Ukraine, 128 days of the Ukrainians paying the highest price for applying to join the European Union. Ukrainians give their lives, defending the European choice, protecting the European continent, doing it themselves, doing it in a win-win, doing it every day, every hour, every second. Ukraine has become a candidate for accession to the European Union. We have a homework assignment, and the first part of this homework, it's written in the Recommendations of the European Commission, and that's what President Ursula von der Lyain mentioned today, is the fight against corruption. Instead, what are we offered? We are encouraged not to fight corruption. We're offered completely different things. Today, many colleagues have talked about privatizing the forests that we are offered so as not to fight corruption. We have a second equipment, a totally horrible equipment -- 264 billion for NAC Naftogazu Ukraine, which is offering to run through this company in a corrupt way. And which, by the way, instead of dealing with the debts that are in Naftogaz, which have been created by corruption during this period of power, we're just offered to write them down. What is 264 billion? That's 8 cruisers like Moscow, that's 55 F-16 planes, that's 50 batteries of the Iron dome, that's 900 tanks of M1 Abrams, that's 1,500 bayractors, that's 32,000 javelins. Instead of buying all this, we're offered a completely invalid, completely commercial, totally corrupt device. In Ukraine, enough of its own gas. Sadly, some 7 million people left Ukraine. Unfortunately, in Ukraine part of the industry is now in occupied areas. So it's quite obvious that the gas itself is enough to provide both the population and industry, and the gas security of Ukraine, the gas independence of Ukraine. Unfortunately, we are offered completely different things. By the way, I disagree with the President of the European Commission: Ukraine's European path began not in the 14th year, Ukraine's European path started in Maydan in 2004. Then people went beyond European values. Yes, there was a break in the dark times of Yanukovich. But Ukraine’s European path began in 2004. So let's not turn ourselves into a country that has been a candidate for the European Union since 99 and, unfortunately, has not become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u20	"Trust," Bacon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, from this high rostrum, it should be noted once again that Ukraine is fighting for its valuable choice, Ukraine is struggling to be free, new, in this family of democratic European states. Today, when finally in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, near the blue-yellow Ukrainian slope of the European Union, it definitely captures everyone's soul. But for this important historical moment, we would like to thank all the Ukrainians, especially the defenders and the defenders, those who have been giving their lives most dearly for over 8 years and over 128 days of large-scale war, risking their most important heart with love for this pro-European Ukraine. We thank the soldiers of the famous royal 24th Brigade. We thank the soldiers of the 63rd, the 80th Brigade. We also thank the courageous advocates of the territorial defense of the 103rd Brigade, who, without fear, went to the front and courageously defend this pro-European choice. Thus, our protectors and protectors have a low margin. A low margin for all the Ukrainians who caused us to get this important status as a candidate for the European Union family. Of course, there are still many tasks ahead of us. And after we've lost our energy, after we've lost our transportation, we've got a customs car, an industrial car, and we've got a lot of steps to take. Today, however, when we go to the government, we want to say that it is precisely not the time to do corporate work, to privatize forests. The whole room is clearly against changing governance in the forest sector in such an unpublishable way during military times. So we urge the government not to change leadership, not to change the governance of the forest at this time of war. We are definitely preparing a call to Kabmin, a call to the President of Ukraine to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u22	And we have a break with the replacement for the performance, "To the Future" and "The Servant of the People." Alexei Silent, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! On June 27, the Russian terrorist federation committed another act of violence against a civilian object at the Amstor Trade Center in my native peaceful Kremenchuc. They released a 12-meter ballistic missile with 900 kilos of explosives at Silpo, Comfy, Toy Building, Good Day Pharmacy, perfume shops, clothes and pet store. The cremationians used to go to Amstor with their children, buy gifts until New Year's, until their birthday, and for the fliers, it's memories of childhood and dreams of the future. The Rashists instantly destroyed all of this. Families lost their children, relatives, and loved ones. They're gone, destroyed by a 12-meter ballistic missile -- peaceful civilians who just lived, burned alive. Today, Astor in Cremenchuca has become known to the world, but over 20 confirmed dead, more than 30 missing persons, more than 60 wounded, and 25 hospitalized persons. The work on finding victims is still ongoing. In these days, as the destruction of the destroyed Amstor takes place, a mist of terror and hope hangs over Kremenchuk. The horror is that many have not been able to contact their mother, father, or loved one on that terrible day, who may have been released to work in the morning or to feed their pets. And hope, for many believe that their relatives are still alive. Unfortunately, many of the dead can only be identified by means of a DNA test taken from the remains of the bodies. There was hell on the ground, there was metal and glass melting in Amsterdam. After this terrible tragedy and what I saw at the scene and in the eyes of the relatives of the dead, Russia is not enough to recognize as a terrorist state. The world was supposed to do it by February 24th, by June 27th, when they hit the Amstor Trade Center, and until today, when they were firing at the peaceful buildings of the Odessa region. Now the world has a terrorist to execute, otherwise the next ballistic missiles that the terrorist country launches will be the Pentagon Mall or the Gallery's Lafayette in Paris. We will never forgive or forget that. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of all those who died on the day of the terrible terrorist attack in Kremenczuk, who died in the Odessa region last night and who died for Ukraine in this terrible war.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. Before we go to the day - to - day issues. And please, Alexander Sergiyovich, the announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u25	In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Yakovenka Evgen Hennadijovich, as part of the "Resurrection of Ukraine" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held to predict the results of the vote on matters of order. Please prepare and participate in the signal vote and press the "Z" green button. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the vote, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the signal vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats. Please vote. [[10:20:19]] For 255 I see. Thank you. Therefore, dear colleagues, let us move on to the issue of the day’s order. The list of questions was previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board and given to you, so let's start with the first. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and let us keep quiet in the hall so that everyone will hear everything we vote for will be clear and you have made your decision in accordance with your will and will. Dear colleagues, once again, if you would like to invite all the national deputies into the hall, we will begin our work on a daily basis. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we are beginning with questions that are practically unnecessary or need a comprehensive discussion. So, dear colleagues, we start with question 7503. We agreed to consider it without discussion, but we need to hold a series of votes. That is why I am announcing a draft decision on the implementation by the chiefs of the Cremian and Rubižan City Military Administrations of the Sevierodonet region of the Luhansk Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (7503). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:22:01]] For 284 Decision taken. I'm questioning the adoption of a whole draft decree on the implementation of the Cremian, Rubižan City Military Administrations. Excuse me. Draft Decision on the implementation by the Chiefs of the Cremín, Rubižan City Military Administrations of the Sevijerodonec Region of the Lugansk Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (project registration number 7503) to be adopted as a whole. Please vote. [[10:22:48]] For 281 Decision taken. It's been accepted in general. Dear colleagues, we agreed further, we have a series of European integration laws, we discuss only two of them, we vote the rest without discussion. And then we agreed that the first one we're discussing, the second one we're just letting the authors who want to speak, and then we're voting without discussion. So I'm going to go to Bill 6464, and I'm going to go to Bill 6464, and I'm going to go to Bill 6464-1. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of intellectual property rights. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:23:45]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Kudin Denis Igorovich. Please, Denise Igorovich. Are you asked to speak or not? Dear colleagues, would you mind if only two for, two for, no speeches? Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your presentation. Have a seat, please. He's so clear. Thank you. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mikhajlovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u27	Please hand over Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u28	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, today is a real day and especially now it is an important historic step to be seen in the agenda and to make decisions that bring Ukraine's legislation closer to the European Union's standards of legislation. The other one. When it comes particularly to intellectual property legislation, we see a balanced clear and transparent mechanism for the protection of intellectual property rights, which is a sign of a high level of development of the state, of law and of man. At the same time, during wartime, making such decisions is particularly difficult, but it is really difficult, but it is a necessary process that we must make today. The other one. Both the bills, and the government 6464 and the alternative to them, are equally necessary in our movement towards European integration. And since we want to implement the five important articles of the Association Agreement, in terms of the complexity of the approach, Bill 6464 is better, it has been voted on the committee. At the same time, we should take into account the European Integration Committee’s comments on the need for full consideration of the provisions of Article 242 of the Association Agreement, as well as the comments of the GNEU. In general, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" will support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u30	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National MP Papiev Mikolaajovich, MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Today, a historic event took place in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it was the introduction of the flag of the European Union. These legislative acts, which we are considering, including the current bill, are also Ukraine’s obligations to implement European legislation. Today, both the President of Ukraine and our senior guest, Madam President of the European Commission, it has been clearly and clearly stated that there will be bills that not everyone will like and that we just need to take to make our steps towards the European community more decisive. And that's why we're going to vote on this bill in the first reading, our MP group, and we're going to make our proposals for the second reading. And, Mr. Head, I'm addressing you. There is now some misunderstanding of the diplomatic passports of Ukrainian national deputies. I would very much ask you, Mr. Head, to direct the Minister of Foreign Affairs to explain to the Regulatory Committee of October 4, 2017, regarding the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and the use of diplomatic passports by the National Deputies, this is an explanation that was made upon the request of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs would know that the Ukrainian legislation is higher than any enigma of officials. I would very much ask you to make it clear that the Cabinet of Ministers is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not the Supreme Council of Ukraine is accountable and accountable to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would very much ask that these European standards be clearly understood and, if not, that you, well, somehow make these issues clear to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, it's Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Head. We are now discussing two bills essentially: 6464 and 5552 with all the alternatives. Dear colleagues, indeed, today we have placed in this Hall the flag of the European Union, noting that Ukraine has been granted the status of candidate for the European Union. In fact, we have homework. Indeed, we must do it, we must do it as quickly as possible, so that we do not repeat the fate of countries that have since the late 1990s run for membership in the European Union, nor have we been able to become full members of the European Union. To do this, we must do our homework in a good way. To that end, we must not give birth to and bear fruit in corruption, but rather fight corruption, as stated in the recommendations of the European Commission, and as the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, has said today. Unfortunately, the proposed Bills 6464 and 6464-1 do not meet the requirements of the Association Agreement as discussed by colleagues (Article 242) or a series of European directives. We believe that legislation must also be introduced for first reading, which fully meets the requirements of European Union legislation. As far as 5552 is concerned, we would support the bill of our colleague, Ms. Vice-speaker of the Parliament, Elena Condratuk, who, in our view, is much better, much more complete, with all due respect for other authors, but who is more fully, more clearly reflecting and regulating copyright situations and does not violate the leading European directives. Of course, I would urge you to support 5552-3, but I understand that mood is different. And under these conditions, the first reading of "Paternity" will hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u34	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u35	Thank you for turning on the microphone. In fact, I would like to say that in Bill 6464, there is another alternative -- 6464-1 -- and in fact, we and all business in Ukraine are supporting 6464-1, not the basic bill that is now being proposed in the voting room. So we urge you to take the best parts of the alternative bill, transfer between the first and second readings in 6464, the basic bill, in order to really fit the directive, because it's a lot. It is still far from European integration and from the directive of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone's attention right now. Take your seats. Dear colleagues, this flag that we have set up in the Supreme Council Hall is not just a great joy and a challenge, it is a great responsibility for each and every one of us. And at each session, we're going to vote on the relevant Euro-integration laws, and so I ask with the utmost responsibility to refer to the voting for these bills. That's why I'm moving on to the announcement. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of intellectual property rights (registration number 6464). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:33:53]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. This is the first Euro-Integration Law adopted after the European Union flag was established. Congratulations, fellows! On the basis of the rest. The next one, we also have a series of bills: 5552, 5552-1, 5552-2, 5552-3, 5552-4, this is the draft Copyright and Related Rights Act. We agreed not to discuss it. But the authors insist on the performance, don't they? Okay, then we just get to the speakers who want to, and we're going to the vote. That's why the first bill. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Buymeister Ludmila Anatoliyevni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, today our meeting began with a pleasant but sad occasion at the same time. We have indeed been granted the status of candidate for accession to the European Union. But we had to pay a very high price for this status. Our protectors and protectors and all the people of Ukraine are paying for human lives today. And this is our duty to you to adopt laws that bring full membership into the European Union. And to make it not the title of the bill, but in fact, as the President of Ukraine said today in this room, these laws have had a positive impact on the development of the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian society. I've heard very often from our partners in the West that Ukraine has been a pirate country for thirty years, has not protected copyright, and has not given priority to the protection of talent, and we are a very talented nation. Today we have to change that. That is why today we must base our support for this bill. But it's not over yet. We will still have a very big job to do to reconcile all the provisions of Bill 5552 with the legislation of the European Union so that they can actually work. And we're ready to do this work as quickly as possible, not in the area of turbulence, but in good quality cooperation between all branches of government. So there's an agreement that the committee will work on the second reading of all the amendments together with the Ministry of Economics. And we're going to make a really quality reform that Ukraine deserves, which everyone in Ukraine deserves today, any cultural product or other inventions. Thank you very much. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u38	Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk is invited to attend under Bill 5552-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of a large number of people's deputies in Ukraine, I present an alternative bill of 5552-1 on copyright and related rights. What makes it different from other bills? First of all, he was involved. He was joined by a large number of Ukrainian national deputies who worked directly on his position. Secondly, a large number of scientists have been involved that have adapted all European Union directives to this legislative act. Thirdly, it does not destroy the existing system of intellectual property rights but merely complements it. It does not intervene in the process of liquidation of the state organization Ukrainian authorship, the agency of copyright and adjacent rights. He doesn't propose to attach a state organization to a national intellectual property body, he builds a new system in accordance with the decisions that have already been made in this room and the only intellectual property policy. So I'm very grateful to the committee that this is the bill that was recommended for adoption in the hall. Dear colleagues, this is a very important decision that we will make together, because intellectual property is the part that the entire European Union will pay particular attention to, and this is the part of legislation that needs maximum adaptation to asquis communautaire. So, honourable colleagues, I ask and urge you to support the position of a large number of national MPs who have drafted and signed this legislative act. Thank you, colleagues. And I hope you'll be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u40	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Olena Kostvena, please. What's your number? The number after Vátrovitch Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u41	Windman then. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u42	Vladimir Mikhailovich. You have 5552-2, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u43	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On the day of widespread Russian aggression, our Parliament finally returned to the protection of Ukrainian culture. Recently, this Hall has adopted very important laws aimed at protecting Ukrainian music, the Ukrainian Book. I hope the President will sign them soon. Ukrainian cultural products are created and developed and promoted by national authors, performers, and professionals from various creative industries. In this world, it is already established that financial models and the guarantees of creators' interests are provided primarily by the copyright institute. Sadly, though, this has not been the case in Ukraine. I know it both as a national MP and as an author of my own experience. In Soviet times, Ukrainian authors were deprived of the ability to exercise their own copyright, and the copyright system did not exist. Unfortunately, we're just beginning to create it after the declaration of independence in the 91st year. When it comes specifically to these bills that we are considering today, they will create respect and economic incentives for the work of Ukrainian creators, as well as guarantees for the protection of their rights. The authors, performers, and other legal owners will finally receive the guaranteed right to a just reward. As far as my bill is concerned as an alternative, what makes it different from the one supported by the committee, 5552-2? I think it's more functional to prepare a second reading than the one that supported the committee, because it already contains changes to all of the intellectual property profiles, i.e. it allows for quick and effective solutions to the underlying intellectual property problems in Ukraine. The reform of intellectual property is an important element of our integration into the EU, which has already been discussed today, so it is very good that we are adopting it today. But it is also important to remember important European values, such as freedom of speech. So the return to Espresso, Prime and Five channels is not just an end to the brutal lawlessness that still prevails in Ukraine, it's a step that will shorten our path from applying to EU membership, it's a step that will eventually accelerate our return to Europe, our return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Olena Kostvena.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! You know, really, a paradoxical situation, because in Ukraine there are so many talented people who don't have a fair reward so far. And we need to find out that fact, and thank all the creative people, the singers, the actors, absolutely right now. And it's not just who's doing mass show business right now, it's a lot of creative groups that are now up to defend Ukraine. Little did they unite in opposition to Russian aggression and Russian narrations, which were always present here in Ukraine and scattered. The sphere of intellectual property is one of those areas that needs absolute regulation and protection. I'm very pleased that in the last summons we passed a basic law that talked about the effectiveness of managing collective governance and protecting the rights of authors. And according to all the directives, and we are talking a lot about European values today, about European directives, we need to put absolutely all the legislation into one piece. Few, it should have been, should have been consistent not only with the laws and regulations but also how the sphere would be managed. So this is going to depend on the Ministry of Economics to coordinate these actions. Because once again, I want to repeat that the fair reward that all creative people demand must be made in Ukraine. I would also like to thank the authors who have joined our alternative bill, particularly Maria Ionova. We did a lot of work with her, just the work we have. We would very much like to have a working group actually created on the profiling committee. And we absolutely support the adoption of the law today in order to move on. And we demand that the working group work very and very transparently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, from the Ministry of Economics, Kudin Denis Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The government has developed an alternative bill before what is currently being considered. This is actually a review and an update of the Copyright and Complementary Rights Act. Today, the key challenge is digital economy and increasing its development. Accordingly, most of the provisions of this law are aimed at strengthening the protection of copyright in the digital economy. The seven basic provisions of this law. First. This is a simplification for right-holders to remove illegal content on websites and distribute it to all copyright and adjacent rights. The other one. It is an automatic acquisition by employers and subscribers of computer programs and databases created as service works or as part of the execution of contracts. This is very important for Ukrainian IT companies. Third. This is the introduction of a special regime for the protection of non-original databases, including those created by artificial intelligence, traditional expressions of culture. Four. This is a solution to specific cases of copyright implementation for the effective commercialization of the creative product. Fifth. Ensuring the long - term commercial value of music records by increasing the flow of the co-executive rights of performers from 50 to 70 years of age. And finally, to regulate the procedures for making common licensing contracts on the Internet on the basis of public offerings. In any case, we suggest we take it as a basis, with further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've completed our discussion of the bill, we're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I would still ask that we do not scatter votes under European integration laws, and let us vote in a way that supports the direction of European integration. That is why I propose to adopt the draft Copyright and Competitive Rights Act (No. 5552-1) as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with part one of the first article 116. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[10:46:46]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. The next bill, and we agreed to vote without discussion, so please don't disagree. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt Bill 6244 as a basis, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. This is another Euro-Integration Law 6244. We'll take that as a base. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:47:34]] For 275 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill, 5616, is also a Euro-legislative project. I also suggest that we agree without discussion. So I immediately propose to adopt the draft Law on the Legal Protection of Geographical Indications for Agricultural Products and Foods, the Protection of Rights and the Application of Quality Schemes, including traditional guaranteed characteristics for agricultural products and foodstuffs (Registration No. 5616). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:48:29]] For 297 Decision taken. The next Bill 6478, also without discussion, is also a Euro-Integration Bill, a draft Law on the Water Management of Condensal Waters. My proposal is to adopt the draft Water Management Act (Registration No. 6478). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:49:10]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have also agreed without discussion to vote on a number of ratifications. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the right to maintenance (project No. 0127). We'll take that as a whole. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:49:53]] For 298 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next bill is the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Elimination of the Legalization of Documents by Diplomatic Agents or Consular Officials (No. 0130). We agreed to accept it without discussion. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Elimination of the Legalization of Documents by Diplomatic Agents or Consular Officials (Registration No. 0130). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:50:46.]] For 297 Decision taken. Next draft of Law 0131. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters. We also agreed to make a decision without discussion. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters (Registration No. 0131). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:51:33]] For 295 Decision taken. Next bill 0132. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Judgments in Civil or Commercial Matters. We agreed, too, without discussion. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Definition and Enforcement of Foreign Decisions in Civil or Commercial Matters (registration No. 0132). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:52:16]] For 296 Decision taken. Next, Honorable Fellows, 7404. We agreed, too, without discussing the basis. Right? Therefore, respectable colleagues, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the conduct of war crimes (7404). Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to include this issue in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:52:55]] For 258. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the conduct of war crimes (registration number 7404). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:53:25]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is still a suggestion to cut the half-line for making amendments to the second reading. Dear colleagues, I propose that you cut in half the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading. Please, to the newly adopted Bill 7404. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:54:02]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on. 7426, we also agreed without discussion. This is a draft law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code for Ukraine's Final and Transitional Provisions to increase the flexibility of local budgets and increase the operationality of decision-making. First, I'm proposing to include 7426 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:54:39]] For-286 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine to increase the flexibility of local budgets and increase the operationality of decision-making (7426). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:55:12]] For 270. Decision taken. And, dear fellows, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7426. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:55:40]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following bills. And we have the next one with a discussion, this is the second reading, 7310. We agreed we'd give it up. Now, one second, I've got my walk. Vlasenko, three minutes, and we're going to vote for this bill. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, three minutes and then we vote. People's deputies, please don't go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the ideology of the bill is correct: during war, simplified mechanisms for establishing the facts of death and birth must be established. This is a perfectly correct bill, and his committee on this part has worked out the right thing to do, to apply a special procedure. But the only problem is that this rule cannot be distributed throughout Ukraine, as proposed by the bill. Because the situation is different: to establish birth or death in occupied Herson, in Donetsk, Lugansk regions, in other areas or in Chernigiv region during occupation is one procedure, and establishing birth and death in Lviv is a completely different procedure. There were many myths around the bill, and at least this was explained by a discussion on the profile committee. Some colleagues are not fully familiar with today’s procedures. I mean, today, you don't have to go anywhere to establish the fact of birth and death in Ukraine. If you have a child born somewhere, you can do so elsewhere in Ukraine. We have civil status registration agencies working in this direction, essentially extraterritoriality, so you can do it anywhere. The only question is the list of documents that you should submit and so forth. So once again, for those who have moved from occupied areas, for those who have moved from areas where fighting is taking place, and therefore do not work for civil registration agencies, there is only a need to create special procedures. What's there to be absolutely peaceful about? What's with the absolutely peaceful Lviv? Yeah, I know it's all over the place, my colleagues told me on the committee, but it's not about where it's going. This is the question of where the national Ukrainian institutions actually work, the question is where fully restored essentially to the sovereignty of the Ukrainian State, you don't have to create simplified procedures, you don't have to work on normal standard procedures, there are no problems with that. And where the territories are occupied, or where the possibility has been destroyed, or the possibility for the authorities to establish such facts has been destroyed, special procedures need to be put in place. So the honourable colleagues, once again, I do not call for a vote against this bill or to support it, each will determine for himself, but unfortunately the logic in this bill. It's partly there, but it's partially gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. People's deputies, take your seats, we're moving on to making decisions. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of the establishment of legal facts under conditions of war or state of emergency (registration No. 7310). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:00:08]] For 264 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next one we have without discussion, don't split up. This is a draft law amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges on the conduct of judicial proceedings under conditions of war or state of emergency (7315). Dear colleagues, I propose to include Bill 7315 in the agenda of the day session. [[11:00:48]] For 235 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges concerning the conduct of judicial proceedings under conditions of war or state of emergency (Registration No. 7315). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:01:21]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next is with discussion. This is Bill 7316, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Master Procedural Code of Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[11:02:03]] For 261 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[11:02:25]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favor, two in favour. And we vote. Please sign up: two in, two in. People's deputies, please don't go far, because in ten minutes we're voting. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorevich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u51	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u52	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In fact, this bill -- it was such a, you know, hasty reaction to those events that took place in February-March. And that's why our colleagues registered him in April. Unfortunately, at that point he probably had some sort of logic in his registration, even though what's inside is clearly contrary to both the Constitution and the series of codes in its original form. But right now, in July, passing these laws, I don't think it makes any sense, because life has shown that the judicial system works. It's working properly, and the precautions that are contained in this law are not available right now. For example. Allowing appeal and cassation institutions to deal with all cases in writing without notice is a gross violation and a narrowing of the constitutional rights of defence provided for in article 22 of the Constitution. We can't allow it right now, especially since it turns out in practice that there is no such problem. Likewise, thanks to God, there is no problem of absenteeism, such as the secretaries of judicial proceedings. And instead, they had to execute their powers to anyone from the court apparatus, whether they could do it remotely. There's no problem. They're working. And in the courts, we don't see any complaints from either side of the case or from the judicial authorities about the absence of court officials. The same applies to the possibility of reporting through the messenders about the participants in the court, the timing of the court hearing, and other reports. And if a person just got a job, not looked at it, but it's believed that the person who sent it to the judge recorded the moment that the message was received by the appropriate addressee, it's properly reported. We realize that this is a very serious problem in the state of war because not all regions, even those in which there is no direct military action, are well connected, are working as messaging agents.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u54	The word is given to the national deputy Babi Romano Vejacheslavovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the courts continue to work in a state of war. But this bill we're trying to bring the rules of the judiciary into line with the state of war that we now have, to facilitate certain procedures and to simplify. First of all, about the individual issues that are going up. Yeah, we're really simplifying the procedure, offering to simplify the message procedure. At the same time, procedural periods and procedural actions will take place and will be carried out by the court only if the person confirms that he received a message in a messenger, an essay, or otherwise. It is also suggested that certain court procedures be simplified by extending the scope of written conduct. It is, in principle, in the administrative process, but it is proposed to expand in civil and economic processes. Again, this is written guidance, it is applied by the court, but the party has the full right to get out of the written simplified conduct. If she wants to be present in court, she comes to court and listens to the matter in general. There are also certain procedures that have been applied to us, rules that we have applied in COVID, to extend to a state of war or emergency. Colleagues, I ask you to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, instead of Zimbaluka Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Afterwards, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. And then we vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. And I give the floor to Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Head. Today, on the day of the entry into the Ukrainian Parliament of the flag of the European Union, I would like to point out that the European choice is not about forest corruption or corruption in Naftogaz. The European choice is about ensuring the rights of citizens. And first of all, one of the fundamental rights is to defend the court. This is about European choice, and everything else is a story for kids, you know. On this day, the bill, which I agree with my colleagues, is questionable from the point of view of the Constitution and substantially narrows citizens' rights to judicial protection, is extremely unacceptable. So we're depriving citizens today or restricting citizens' rights to a fair trial. For how many years we have criticized the Constitutional Court for the fact that 99 percent of the cases they have dealt with have been dealt with in writing, opaquely, improperly, without accountability to society. And now we're going to do this for the machination plant. I mean, what is it? Is that an improvement in justice? It's an facilitation of people's access to justice, or it's a series of mechanisms that will then be used as used today in article 615 of the Criminal Procedural Code in a new edition through abuse, by depriving people of fundamental rights. "Paternity" has always advocated European choice. Fatherland has always advocated the independence of the judiciary. We agree that today the judicial branch of power works during the war. Of course, it doesn't work like it does in peacetime, but it works. And this bill, maybe I agree with my colleagues, would be relevant in February. Today we have to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u58	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to pass the word to Gregory Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u60	Gregory Mama. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report two bills -- 7315, which we voted in the first reading, and 7316, which we are currently considering. These bills are a little bit abnormal -- wartime and extraordinary time. With these bills we allow the court, all of us, with the understanding that the military situation will end, will enter a state of emergency, that is, a constant pace of the court's work. But the pace of the court's work, it's not about asking the hearing. We need to think about how to simplify the procedure for bringing citizens to court, considering an objective case in fact, rather than being quarantined, and comparing a military situation with a quarantined SOVID. What do we have here? Did SOVID run out or did the quarantine run out? Let's still figure out what procedure and what we're running with, and why we can explain how to simplify the appeal to the court and everything else. We're going to stick to this bill because we're counting on it not to work in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Master Procedural Code of Ukraine (registration number 7316). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:11:47]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we're sending them back first, aren't we? I'll bet you an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Wait a minute, now. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to re-read Bill 7316. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:12:40]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. This is the last decision I can make. If it is not accepted, the bill will be regarded as rejected. So let's go back to work, colleagues. I'll ask, let's not lose this session if it's necessary. I'm offering to return the subject to draft Bill 7316. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:13:23]] For 216 The bill is considered to be rejected. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, if I may ask the National MPs not to run at the last vote, but to be in their seats, because each of your sprints is a lost vote for the bill, it's the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because someone doesn't run for the last 20 meters of their lives. Dear colleagues, 6306, draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the provision of medical care. It's a second reading. I have a letter from Vlasenko asking for seven amendments to put on. Let's see, is someone going to bet their amendments on it? Nobody. The owner asks for seven to bet on confirmation and asks to replace it by two minutes. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please. Please, stand here.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head, this bill is, in fact, a continuation of a completely disgraceful reform of the name "Doctor of Death" Uljana Suprun and, on the other hand, an attempt to usurp control of hospitals. There are a number of amendments in this bill that do not correspond entirely to legislation or common sense. I know that my colleagues want to make further amendments to my statement to Amendment 14, which allows for today's district military administrations across the country, in fact, for no reason at all, or for any deliberate reason, to release the chief doctors of the district hospitals from their jobs. To our conviction, this is completely wrong. We need, when we talk about medical reform, about real medical reform, on the day that the European Union flag was introduced, we need to take on better European Union practices and talk about insurance medicine, not about campaigning for what we're offered. Can you please call me any country of the European Union that works and abracadabra, which is now being pushed into our ranks in the form of medical reform? Where are the hospital districts, where is the liquidation of part of the medical facilities, where it all works, except for the sick imagination of the reformers who reformed it? By the way, I would like to remind you that the presidential election program of President Vladimir Zelensky and the pre-election programme of the "Serve of the People" faction is approving and approving insurance in Ukraine. This is the European direction, this is the European vector for the development of health sector reform. Therefore, "Paternity" will not support this bill as a whole. Mr. Head, but I'm asking you, if no one will support you, to put you on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u64	Yeah, yeah, I figured there'd be 14 amendments for confirmation. Do I get it right? Batenko was good, wasn't he? Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! I mean, according to the bill, we worked for a long time with both the Ministry and the Professional Committee. Thank you, Mikhail Borisovich, and the Ministry, for taking into account a number of our comments. But we will support the bill, even though there is a discussion about it as a whole. But with regard to the amendment, I ask for confirmation of Amendment 14, which gives the government the right to introduce temporary administrations in state or municipal health institutions in the area where the state of war has been introduced, i.e. in fact throughout Ukraine. Friends, we're talking about the problem hospitals where there are no doctors, but there's a general situation in the state where there might be abuse. That's why I think the committee had to work out this amendment, clean it up, take over the entire territory of Ukraine, allocate the territories that were temporarily occupied by Ukraine, then this problem would be removed. And yes, in that way we can't vote for this amendment. And please place it on confirmation, Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u66	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. I will give the floor to Mikhail Borisovich from the committee, and then I will invite the national MPs into the hall, because we will vote for the 14th amendment that will be put to the confirmation. Please, Mikhailo Borisovich, the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u67	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. First of all, I'd like to thank the "For the Future" faction for the constructive. As for the 14th amendment, Taras Ivanovich, you might say a little bit about it, but not really. The 14th Amendment does not authorize the military and civilian administrations, it authorizes the government to appoint a doctor-in-chief to the hospital if the chief physician has even fled Kiev. Today, Kiev lacks four major doctors who have gone on evacuations, insufficient in Kharkiv, and there is no military action in Chernigow, where there are no occupied areas. Therefore, dear colleagues, I am very much asking that the government of Ukraine, a collegiate body, be given the opportunity to appoint temporary hospital managers when the war is taking place in the country. Thank you. And thank you, and I ask you to uphold the law in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the 14th Amendment, I'm putting it on the stand. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:13]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we are now introducing a bill as a whole. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the provision of medical assistance (project registration number 6306). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:59]] For 248 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 6199. We have a number of amendments, but Puziyczuk, instead of 12 of his amendments, asks for two minutes to perform, and then we're going to vote. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, this law, it's right, but it's technical and it's standardizing technical issues. The Ukrainian society today is awaiting a decision by the Constitutional Court regarding the status of agricultural land, and it wants to hear the answer to the question whether Ukrainian land can be sold. Therefore, a key decision of the Constitutional Court must be obtained before considering such bills. Two years in the Constitutional Court is the submission of "The Fatherland" to an unconstitutional law on the sale of Ukrainian land. But unfortunately, for two years there has been no decision by the Constitutional Court, and it is your responsibility, your esteemed colleagues of greatness. Today, during a speech by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Läin stressed the need to ensure the work of all judicial branches of government, including the Constitutional Court. And, Your Honor, today you have absolute authority and you have to ensure the unbreakable work of the Constitutional Court, which should be considered within a reasonable time by the submission of national deputies, including on such important issues as the submission of the "Paternity" on the status of agricultural land. Can Ukrainian land, especially today, be sold during wartime? And with regard to this bill, "Paternal Motherhood" is maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can come to a decision. Whether someone else would like to support their adjustments or put them on the stand. To consider your own or to support others? None. Then let us move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the provisions on notarial and registration in the process of acquiring land rights (registration No. 6199) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? Ready, Your Honor, once again, to accept on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments? You're ready, aren't you? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:23:17]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, what about the second time again? I'm proposing to re-read Bill 6199. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:23:56]] For 219 The decision is not taken. All right, the law's broken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Then we agreed on two statistical bills: 5886 -- we discussed it, 5108 -- no discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] One, I said, 5886 -- with discussion, 5108 -- without discussion. Then we move on to 5886, this is a draft of the Ukrainian Official Statistics Act. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[11:25:02]] For 228 Decision taken. We're looking at a reduced procedure. Once again, we are now in the consideration of question 5886, who has forgotten. Okay? Let's move on. We agreed: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Head, colleagues, please give Mrs. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u72	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, of course, are in great need of a bill, and it really takes into account the European Union directive in part, and it can potentially transfer us to a new level of meeting, an analysis of statistics. So it's important, at least in the first reading, to approve and continue to work to stop being the "cheese" he is at the moment. Because it has many incomprehensible positions, conflicting positions, sufficiently vague formulations, non-systemic terminology, and there is a direct denial of one standard to another. Therefore, it is important for us to take as many of you as possible into account, in the context of obtaining our candidate status and today's calls and promises, the directives governing the countries of the European Union in the collection of statistics, in particular, to pay attention to the identity committee, that we need to take into account Rules 1922/206 and take into account all positions relating to gender equality and the congregation. to collect relevant information for analysis. Thank you very much. And we will support him on our first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u74	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Well, once again, I would like to stress, my fellow country's European choice is not fraud, it's not corruption, it's not data manipulation. The European choice is about human rights and about ensuring that some real things are reflected. These are not simple laws on statistics, and these laws on statistics produce things that have not previously appeared, such as the possibility of an electronic population census, or electronic population census. There are other mechanisms that can help manipulate statistics, such as the disappearance of statistics from government purchases, and they are simply cleaned up. It's probably not necessary to get statistics, it's not necessary to get information on government purchases in a European country. Maybe we should just put it in the shade and start doing some manipulation. Indeed, these two bills do not correspond to a set of European directives, so it is impossible to say that these bills are adopted to fulfil our candidate status. That is why the Fatherland, as a pro-European political force, cannot support even in the first reading the laws that violate the guidelines given by the European Union directives. If anyone is prepared from the pro-European parties for compromise, that is, of course, their holy right. But when it comes to European directives, human rights, the right to receive honest, fair, reliable statistical information, "Fatherland" will protect citizens' rights to the last. Again, I would like to say that our domestic work as candidates for the European Union must be done qualitatively, even at the level of the laws of first reading. A low standard of law has now been passed with reference to article 116, which testifies to the inadequacy of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u76	The word is Klimenko Julia Leonidini, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, Bills 5886 and 5108 both refer to statistics, statistical activities. I want to tell you that since we have made a choice: we have become a candidate and we are moving towards membership, we must first and foremost implement with you the best practices of the European Union, including Eurostat, in our legislation. Not to invent a bicycle, not to invent additional problems that will then become a barrier to integration into the European Union, namely to adopt a directive from the European Union, to implement it in this legislation, as well as the best practices that exist in the European Union. If we don't do that, no one will trust our statistics, of course, and that will then be reflected in Ukraine's indicators, starting with a gross national product, ending with per capita income. So I'm asking you very, very much, please let's work out these bills, and so that they meet the requirements of Eurostat and the requirements of the European Union Directive, which, unfortunately, is not the case right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u78	The word is given to Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunovich, "Platform for Life and Peace." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. See, this is a very large document, actually complex: 5,108 and 5886. Both laws apply to statistical activities. I'll pay attention. The only thing that's been said about the positive is that I'm going to focus on the negative that's in this document in 5886. It's the Official Statistics Act. We're all working with statistics. See, there are key standards that are unacceptable. The first is that the project includes a standard for the register of respondents to statistical observations. The second is the concept of experimental and different from official statistics. What's "experimental statistics"? Next. Excluded standards for the availability, publicity and openness of statistical information, its sources, and its methods of compilation. So it's going to be hidden and the methodology, the individual statistical information, the way it was collected, calculated and so on. This is also an unacceptable moment. The next moment. The rule of socio-economic, demographic, and environmental aspects and processes is excluded. To tell you the truth, it's very strange to see data like this when we, well first of all, the Ukrainian State Statistics Service, its website gives us full information about all the socio-economic parameters that we have in the country. I mean, the norm is, in my opinion, unacceptable. Next. The National Council for Statistics is being established. It's also not clear why. Norms for ensuring equal access to statistical information and publishing basic statistical methodology have been excluded. Also, statistical information that is not provided through state statistics is not now part of the official state statistics. In my opinion, all these standards say that this law must be enforced. The draft law on pre-processing is because in this case we're going to get a narrowing of information. information in general space that will make it impossible for us to do our full-time work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Honorable colleagues, an important bill, with many good points. Let's do this between the first and the second reading, I have an offer, if possible, please support. So let me put to the vote the draft Act on Official Statistics, the proposal to adopt Bill 5886. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:34:23]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed not to discuss 5,108 at once, because they are connected in some way. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning State statistics. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding State statistics (registration No. 5108). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:35:02]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Then we have Bill 7370 along with an alternative 7370-1. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve individual provisions of pre-trial investigation under military conditions. On the Conciliation Board, we said we'd talk about it. So first, I ask you to vote on the inclusion of these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:35:45.]] For 237 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:36:06]] For 234 Decision taken. We agreed two-in-a-two-in, right? Two in, two in. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u82	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, we're all, I think, very impressed by the speech of the distinguished President of the Eurocommission Ursula von der Lyaen, who built her speech on principles. And it seems to me that when we talk about what we need to focus the activity of the Ukrainian Parliament on adapting our legislation to European legislation, it's very right, but it has to be a real adaptation based on principles. So now we're looking at a bill that in the midst of other bills unfortunately reinforces the functions of not a democratic but a police and a repressive state. And what scares us is that that's what it feels like. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sit down so you can see who's speaking. Colleagues! I ask the Presidency to pay attention to that right now. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u84	Colleagues, take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, I spoke to you five times during my speech because I was being disguised. Please add 30 seconds to the performance. My speech was covered up in front of me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u86	We heard you very well, Irina Volodymyrna. I've been talking to the fight, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u87	I wasn't heard or seen, I'm sorry, yes, and I couldn't focus on the speech, because in fact there's not enough political culture in this room even when the opposition is covered with backs. And I think the Presidium should be paying European attention to that. There is no such thing in any European Parliament. Thank you. Now I'm going back to the bill. It is very important to note that the European Union is values. And we have a feeling that the state of war has pleased the government, not only because war is at the moment, but because the functions of the police, the repressive state can be strengthened by noise. This bill is about increasing the functions of the police and the repressive state. We thank the committee that reviewed some of his positions, and the opposition factions recommended that we eliminate situations that reinforce him.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u89	Please give the word to Batenku Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u90	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, we will support this bill. Moreover, in the context of the Conciliation Board meetings, in fact, at the request of representatives of various factions and MPs, it was possible to remove the precautionary measures in the form of a four-month custody measure. The committee heard us. Thank you, sir, to the head of the committee. And there are positive norms in this bill that have allowed for prompt and effective investigation of war crimes, especially in those areas where active or close to them. So I think that these laws are in time. We propose to support it on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u92	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Then Vlasenko and then we go to the vote. Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u93	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Dmitri Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u94	Artem Dmitruk, please. Please, is Dmitri in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the need for changes to the Criminal Procedure Code today dictates the very reality, since it is virtually impossible to carry out a fair investigation into the state of war and the acute stage of war under normal rules and procedures that are applied in times of peace. Some of them simply lose meaning in conditions where, for example, the cause of death is obvious -- the specific fighting actions of Russian military personnel against the Ukrainian civilian population. The application of normal legal standards of pretrial investigation under wartime conditions also results in tremendous pressure on authorized authorities that fail to carry out all their duties. These changes are proposed to improve and simplify appropriate standards during the war period. The "Delivery of Ukraine" group urges colleagues to adopt this bill in the first reading and to take all the remarks into account for the second reading. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u97	Thank you, Mr. Head. For almost three years now, we've been expecting, you know, some comprehensive reform of the judiciary and the law enforcement system. Instead, we get some, you know, laws that just, like a salary, kind of patch a hole. I want to remind you that we don't have a WCC for 2.5 years? It's been a year now. We have problems, no matter what anyone says, but problems in the law enforcement system. By the way, this bill touched on the famous article 615, which I have already mentioned today, which is unfortunately systematically abused by prosecutors. But I look forward very much to the reaction of the Attorney General's Office to these abuses and practical conclusions. Because it's a totally insane story when the prosecutor, without anyone in a working court, takes a decision on the arrest of a person and then in a court of law tells us that the court did not work on Sunday, and that's why the prosecutor made that decision in 615 articles. This is what Mr. Tahtarov, the first deputy prosecutor of the Podil district, made in one of the false prosecutors. Well, not the D.A.'s office, but individual prosecutors in criminal proceedings. I am grateful to the committee that the most controversial norm has been taken away even before the first reading. But once again, we're expecting not some kind of Latvian bill that just solves the problems that come out every minute and every second. We continue to look forward to the system-wide reform bills of the judiciary, to the continuation of the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the continuation of the reform of those bodies mentioned today by the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Ljaen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. People's deputies please take their seats, let's move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedural Code for the Improvement of Certain Precautions in War Conditions (project No. 7370). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Are you ready to vote, your esteemed colleagues standing back and talking on the phone? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:44:56]] For 238. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill 7370. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:45:25]] For 228 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] You'd still have a nice vote, you wouldn't have any prices. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Decision taken, 228 in favor. The next two bills are the so-called 5688-P blocking orders, 5689-P. Let's go to the first one. 5688-P: Draft Decision to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on second reading and in whole, the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the creation of favourable conditions for the inclusion of large-scale investment in industrial production. According to article 48, it is considered as a reduced procedure, so let us proceed immediately to the report. I invite you to report to the author of the decision, the initiator of the National Deputy of Ukraine Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u99	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Julia Timoshenko and I have registered the Bill of Order 5622 on the lifting of the vote on the so-called Industrial Parks Act. If he remembers and has studied history, the modern history of Ukraine, then a similar law has already been in force in the territory of our nation, from 2001 to 2005. And according to statistics, only in 2002 did GDP fall by 3.4 percent, precisely because of the operation of this law, which, according to the authors, was supposed to exempt all types of taxes, including local, land taxes, taxes and payments on the infrastructure of those enterprises that would work in the industrial park area. I don't think if the president approves and signs this bill in Ukraine, they'll start investing. Because, first of all, by believing in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, only victory before Russia's aggression in war can give rise to investment in our country. This bill, if approved, creates a large, corrupt component of what is called the so - called actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u100	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Yes, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, some colleagues wanted to talk to you, so I ask that you only sign up for those who would like to speak with you in order to shorten the time to discuss these issues. Please record two in, two in, and no, but only those who want to speak. Please give the word to Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u101	I'm happy to give the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u102	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I think that when we adopted this draft law in the second reading, we made all the remarks, they're critical, and hopefully the President won't sign this law. I took this sample and I would like to take it with me to the delegation, which will be July 4 and 5, in the west of Lugano, Switzerland. I would like all of them to take with them information on what kind of tax systems in Ukraine are already operating. I don't know what kind of program our government is going to go with that might offer if there's recently been so many changes in the country that they can't work with them and work with them, or there are other reasons, but the community around Ukraine knows about it and doesn't invest in Ukraine. So the reason is something other than what you're suggesting. I still want to go back to what today, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, here in the Hall we should be discussing an economic development programme or an investment engagement programme that your government is still going with for its presentation to the international community. Why don't we Ukrainians who live here work and pay taxes know about the things our government is going through? Why is this happening, we're doing it for someone, not ourselves? I'd like to call again, though, to count with Parliament, to hear what Ursula von der Läin said, that we're talking to you here, we're making decisions, not about us. That is why I still demand that the initiative be considered in Parliament. Please schedule a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u104	The word is given to Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u105	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, allow me to continue. I think this bill is going to work the way that now in Ukraine is going to work as "investment babysitters." Where are they? Are they deciding "uncles" again? Because of what is important, in the continuation of the words of the reverend Nina Jujanina, that in order for the state to invest, it is essential to create the conditions, the so-called investment climate, to complete the judicial reforms that Sergey Vlasenko was talking about. Finally, it is necessary to appoint an anticorruption prosecutor, the director of the NABU, and to carry out reforms so that law enforcement authorities today will be on the watch for the rights, not repressive authorities or so - called force structures. Because of this, honourable national MPs, we propose to support the draft decision to repeal this law. Otherwise it's not going to be an investment climate or an industrial park, it's going to be another offshore zone or a black hole. In 2005, the government of Timoshenko had already repealed the same law, and only then did the budget actually begin to be replenished, and they were all in equal conditions, irrespective of where a registered enterprise in Ukraine was registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u106	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, of course, a lot of right words were said about the schematics that were voted in the basic law, and then they were transformed into changes to the Tax Code and the Customs Code. But at the same time, I would like to. Now, I don't agree with the report that in 2002 -- and I've been paying attention to that -- maybe my colleagues have less attention -- that we had a fall in gross domestic product. I would like to say that, in fact, the period 2002-2004 in Ukraine's history is a period when the highest rates of economic growth are fixed. And I'm going to confirm this by the Ukrainian State Statistics Service because in 2002, I counted Statestat, GDP growth -- plus 4.1 percent. When they replaced the methodology, they counted -- plus 5.2 in real GDP, in the third year -- plus 8.5, and in 2004 -- plus 12.4 percent in annual GDP. Yes, there was another law at the time, it was different from that, but it's also necessary to know, and this also needs to be counted in order for us to understand with you what economic instruments were used, what was economic policy in order to accelerate the economic growth of gross domestic product. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, and then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u109	Please pass the word to the Engineer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u110	Please, Grunchkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u111	Congratulations, fellows of honor! Thank you very much to the initiator of this decision to Michael Zimbaluku for taking the initiative in this regard. But I'd like to make a slightly different point. I understand the motivation with which this was accepted, and I realize that I remember times when free economic zones were imported. Under two machines, meat echelons or something else were imported. But I can't agree with that and that's why. Dear Mikhailo Cimbaluk knows the Lviv region very well. In the Lviv region there are two beautiful cities – Novoyavorysk and New Division, which were created in their own time under the production union "Sirca". So these cities are very different from each other. Unfortunately, in the middle of the New Order there are houses with bangs inside, I had a factory and I'm pretty often in this town. And in Novoyavorysk, I was two weeks ago, and I asked myself, why do you have such a thriving city and new buildings that are constantly being built, built? And they answered me because we had a free economic zone. So where am I leading? I want to say that at a time when the main asset in the economy is people, not coal or oil, or any other useful fossils, or the territory where the asset becomes talent, then countries start to create special jurisdictions for those talents to coincide. And they also create investment and communication capabilities. And it's the industrial parks that concentrate these possibilities for these people. Without industrial parks, we can't talk about any competition in the world economy, we won't even drag anyone here, even in peacetime, if we don't have at least these tools. But that's not enough, so I'm asking you to take these down.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. It is proposed that the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the creation of favourable conditions for the inclusion of large-scale investments in industrial production (Registration No. 5688-P). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:58:30.]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed, since the second order is the same, we immediately vote on the second order. We talked about two of them right away. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I propose to adopt a whole draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to create favourable conditions for the inclusion of large-scale investments in industrial production (registration number of the draft Decree 5689-P). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:59:20]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Orders are considered rejected, laws are free to sign. We've taken out the blocking orders. Dear colleagues, we have a draft decree to establish a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on international humanitarian and international criminal law in the context of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine (7491). We agreed without discussion, but we need to give the floor to Mr. Bakumov, who will declare a conflict of interest. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u113	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I publicly announce a conflict of interest. He is solely responsible for the fact that the draft decrees contain what I choose as the head of the appropriate commission. I myself will participate in the discussion and adoption of the decision on this issue, with regard to the creation of a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. All right, then, if you don't mind, Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov, a few words that the commission wants, and we're voting. Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u115	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In common terms, this commission is a lus ad bellum, a right in war or the law of armed conflict. For the vast majority of the nations of the world, this right is dead because it takes effect only with the outbreak of armed conflict and regulates the conduct of the warring parties. In the face of Russia’s armed aggression against Ukraine, this right for every Ukrainian has become alive. The presumptuous actions of the Russian Federation that violate the laws and customs of war, such as rocket and artillery strikes on civilian objects, objects needed to survive civilians, medical institutions, cultural values, the use of hidden or remote mines, untried munitions, are a fundamental violation of international humanitarian law. And a major violation of these standards is war crimes in international law that do not have a period of time. The creation of a commission is necessary for: compliance with the IHL requirements for means and methods of warfare or the so-called Hague right; the second is the protection of persons who do not take or stop participating in armed activities, victims of conflict (this is the civilian population, prisoners of war, wounded and sick persons), the so-called Geneva law. The commission will deal with war crimes, crimes against humanity, crimes of genocide, and crimes of aggression. We will work on mechanisms for the most effective cooperation with international institutions, including the International Criminal Court, with the aim of bringing war criminals of the aggressor state to justice. We are a free nation that recognizes and respects the values of a civilized world. Humanism, human centerism, and the further development of civil society are our goal. We long for peace and the limits of violence, but we will defend ourselves by all means and methods permitted. Thank you for your attention and please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u116	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer, let's move on to making a decision. I propose to accept, in general, the Committee's proposals, the draft Ordinance establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on international humanitarian and international criminal law in the context of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine (registration number 7491). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:03:15]] For 277 The decision is taken in general. Dear colleagues, we have yet another bill, and after that, we have a personnel issue. 7251: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning labour relations optimisation. As far as I can tell, there are 27 amendments to Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluka. He's asking for five minutes, and then we go to the vote. One second, 27 amendments, five minutes -- that's the deal. Please, Irina Volodymyrna, what else are you? And she's still taking off all of Nina Petrovna's modifications, and she's also about twenty amendments and five minutes. So two times five, and we go to the vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u117	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in fact, Bill 7251 created a working group on the committee. And I would like to thank all the participants in it, which included national MPs, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, trade unions, employers, representatives of the public. And it's like they found almost a consensus before the task force shuts down. And proposals were made to the committee. The committee recommended that the second reading should be supported and voted on as a whole. But Julia Timoshenko, Vadim Yvchenk, and a number of national deputies from the faction, were making proposals. As the Head of the Supreme Council said, 27 rights were not taken into account. Before the work of the working group was closed, there were, in principle, a number of problematic issues that the "Paternity" faction could not support in the second reading and in general, because the bill amended a number of laws that would take effect after the end of the war. This is what we think of as the general liberalisation of labour legislation, which is unacceptable in terms of the state of war for workers who are already in difficult working conditions. Next thing. The bill provides for the deletion of article 81 of the Labour Code: the right to an annual leave if transferred to another place of employment at the request of workers transferred from one enterprise, institution or organisation who have not used the previous place of work in whole or in part the annual basic leave and who have not received a financial compensation, the annual leave of full duration is granted until the six-month period of continuous work after transfer. It is also excluded from this article, 83rd, of the Labour Code, that if a worker is transferred to another enterprise, the institution, the organization of financial compensation for the unused days of his annual leave, as he wishes, should be counted against the enterprise where he went to work. There is also a change in the valid norm of article 115 of the Act on Work and Article 21 of the Law on Vacations, which pays the employee’s salary for the entire time of annual leave no later than three days before the beginning of the holiday. The standard is as follows: the pay during the rest of the vacation is paid before the beginning of the vacation. What works now. Unless otherwise provided by legislation or by a contract of employment. It also excludes the valid norm of article 9 of the Ukrainian Labour Relations Act. It is suggested that workers who have children (except those defined in article 8 of this law) may participate in night and overtime work, weekend work, holidays, and nonwork days, as well. To conclude, once again, before the second reading, what was improved was done for the support of trade unions and employers. Unfortunately, there are things that I've said that don't give us any reason to believe that this bill will be balanced if approved, because once again, there are norms that will change labour legislation after the war is over. It's unacceptable. This is what we fought before the declaration of war on Russia. We believe that it is unacceptable for us to adopt such laws during a state of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin, five minutes. And after that, I ask you to invite the national deputies to the hall, and we'll vote. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u119	Mr. Head, speaking last time, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I have asked you to find an opportunity for the members of the Supreme Council, your colleagues, to find time and listen to the plan for the restoration of Ukraine with which the delegation is going to Lugano. If possible, arrange for us to be aware of the matter as well. It's about this bill. Please understand the project and all the questions raised in it are not easy. Because, on the one hand, there are employers, and this is the economy of Ukraine, which is now stagnating, which can't take any extra pressure. And on the other hand, these are our citizens who are now outside Ukraine, these are women with children who are hired workers and they're being asked a lot of questions. And when you're from the Supreme Council's rostrum, you're all saying that we need to make the most of it and take the changes so that every person who's temporarily moved or is outside Ukraine knows that we're waiting for him in Ukraine. That those 6 million women with children outside Ukraine will be able to return to Ukraine and have jobs. And when you hear employers who are really exhausted and unable to hold jobs, please listen to people and the country’s tasks. A working population for us is the spirit of gold. We need to understand that these are the people who are going to restore the economy of Ukraine. Therefore, we proposed a ban during the period of military release or dismissal from the employer’s initiative, which during the period of such a state of war went beyond the territory of Ukraine or which acquired the status of internally displaced person, and a compulsory leave at the employee’s request without saving the salary for the period of military status. The employers did not agree with this norm because we have no military status, and they believe, and somehow the committee went to find a compromise to ensure that the employer, at the request of an employee who has left the territory or acquired the status of an internally displaced person, has given him mandatory leave without retaining the salary for the duration specified in the application, but not more than 90 calendar days. I want all the women who have addressed me and you, the national MPs, to hear this right now, to communicate with their employers, to write statements, and to be sure that they can return to Ukraine. I hope in 90 days we'll have a state of war over, and we'll win. There were also standards that were totally unacceptable to reduce the length of additional leave for participants in hostilities and injured participants in the Dignity Revolution from 14 to 7 days. I thank the committee that, given the complexity of this issue, has completely excluded the standards from this project. And it's also a very important thing. Dear colleagues, this bill solves the issue for teachers. Here is the settled issue of leave of 56 days, not 24 days. You know that the law now has limitations, for a period of martial law, they only have a right to leave for 24 days. And since July 1st, our teachers have to get to work. For them, this is a very important question, and in most teachers, the vacation, which ends on July 1, will continue on the basis of the changes that we are now considering with you. I agree with my colleague that the law is not simple, but we have already adopted a number of changes that we are now changing. So I think the profile committee actually did a very good job on this bill. We've been taking part for more than 20 hours in the work of working groups, and I've already realized that there might be a discussion and she's been on this committee. We're going to vote in advance for this bill because it solves the problems that our citizens have come to us. And then we're going to work on improving, maybe those norms that would definitely not be possible to be excluded from the Labour Code and other legislation that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the vote, to the decision-making process. Take your seats, dear fellows. I'm making an offer. Ready, fellows of honor? Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to accept in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical law. Excuse me. Adopt, on second reading and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the committee with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the optimization of labour relations (registration number 7251). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:16:19]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u121	I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council sign the bills adopted today as a whole and send them to the President without delay. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u122	Wait a second. Dear colleagues, I am very much asking you to support this proposal, because I am still on a mission, and I really need to sign the bills that I have adopted today. Please support this proposal. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u123	I'll bet you a vote. Please be supportive. [[12:17:09]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor. And let's move on to the final question today, but it's very important. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 17, of the Constitution, are appointed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. On June 2022, in accordance with legislation, I applied for the appointment of Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Today, according to part two of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is invited to consider the nomination of Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich for the post of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. Dmitry Valeriyovich has considerable experience in headship of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is primarily known as the issue of respect for human and civil rights and freedoms, the establishment of European standards for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in national legislation, the realization of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons and citizens of Ukraine who live in temporarily occupied territories, and many other very important issues relating to the fate of people. I want to emphasize, and we all know that, over the years in Parliament, Dmitri Valeriovich has demonstrated that he is deeply aware of the protection of human rights and freedoms and of the citizen, he has solid ideas about how to improve parliamentary control in a state of the sphere. I am confident that his principles, perseverance, sense of justice, professional and human qualities will contribute to the achievement of such a high mission for the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the requirements of article 208 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure of the Committee and information on candidates for office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, were given to you electronically on June 27, 2022, through SEDO. Information about the candidate was also published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine on June 21, 2022. Dear colleagues, the profile committee has proposed such a procedure for discussion. A candidate for the post of Human Rights Commissioner, up to 5 minutes; a question for the candidate, up to 9 minutes; a report from the Main Committee, up to 3 minutes; statements by MPs and groups, up to 24 minutes; speeches by national deputies, up to 6 minutes; decision-making. Dear colleagues, we cannot simplify these procedures. Anyone who doesn't want to talk about it, don't talk about it. Is this the procedure proposed by the committee? Thank you. So let's get to the point. Accurate With Whom? Irina Volodymyrna, clarification? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u125	Thank you very much. I'd like a clarification on the questions to an honorary candidate. There will be questions from factions, and we insist that there have been questions from deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u126	Look, questions. We have a question for a candidate from the Ukrainian people's deputies, up to 9 minutes. So three of the first ones to sign up, they're asking questions. No, it's not. If you want, I'll put it in for confirmation. Dear colleagues, I then put to the vote the procedure proposed by the profile committee that I have heard above. I would like the National Deputies to support the offer of a profile committee. Please vote. [[12:21:03]] For 230 Decision taken. Irina Volodymyrna, the hall has been defined. Thank you. In accordance with articles 31 and 37 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I give the floor to the candidate for the post of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights of the People's Deputy Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich for the public declaration of conflict of interest at first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u127	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I now claim a conflict of interest. I'm not taking part in the vote. I did not take part or vote, just when Parliament voted in favour of the procedure, I no longer took part in it. And I will not take part in the vote during the approval of the duly nominated Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u128	Thank you. Well, don't leave anymore, because. I invite you to speak for the candidate for the post of Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, Mr. Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinz. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u129	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, distinguished presidency, respected citizens of Ukraine! I won't be here long. I think in this room right now everyone realizes that our country is in a state of war with the Russian Federation. And of course, the scale of the responsibility that the Ombudsman, the Human Rights Supreme Council, will bear, is enormous, because, first of all, the Russians are killing civilians, women, elderly people, destroying critical infrastructure, leaving our citizens without heat, light, food, every day the Russians are killing our protectors and protectors. And certainly, the Ombudsman in his office every day should be responsible for the protection of the rights of all Ukrainian citizens every minute. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out to you right now that human rights are the center of our Ukrainian state policy. It's symbolic that today a flag of the European Union was introduced, namely European values, where it is always emphasized that there is a human being in the center, and human rights is the guarantee that the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian Parliament today understand that, and this is why they vote, and this underlines. Honorable national MPs, the protection of human rights cannot be limited to the Ombudsman. He has to do this with the Ukrainian Parliament, with our President, with our Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with local self-government, because this is such a wide area where one person, even with a large apparatus, cannot protect all the rights of all our citizens. So I've always stressed and understood in my position as the head of a professional committee that's been working for several years to protect human rights that the Ombudsman can't cooperate without Parliament. He can't and he won't. So I can tell each of you that the doors of the Ombudsman in the event of today's positive vote will always be open to the national MPs, to your representatives, to the representatives of the Ukrainian government, to the local self-government, because only together will we carry out this mission of honor. Yeah, it's going to be hard, that's for sure, I've already said that, and every single day, Ukrainian citizens are going to demand results. And I definitely want to turn the Office of the Ombudsman from a structure that's been doing statistics every day that's been running statistics, how much has it been said, how much have they redirected to the citizens of Ukraine, to the other criteria: how much have we helped each citizen of Ukraine every day? It's definitely not going to be a process for the process, it's going to be a concrete result. And when we're with you, at least every day we'll be helping hundreds of Ukrainian citizens, that'll be the result of our joint activity and, of course, the Ombudsman. I'm sure you and I are going to have a good time, because I said that on the basis that every vote in favour of the bill that came out of our committee, he was going to win 300 votes. So we've already shown that when it comes to the rights of our citizens, we can remove political differences, political slogans, incomprehensible statements, we can remain statesmen and vote in favour of decisions that protect our citizens and our state. Convinced that the war will end, and it will end with our mutual victory. I know that every day we do this to you and we participate in it, and I know that in your position, if you support my candidacy today, I understand exactly what to do, how to do and who to do with. And these will certainly be the successful processes that I will personally be proud of, and will be proud of every national MP who will support my candidacy today. Together to victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u130	Heroic glory! Thank you. Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, I would like you to sign up for a question to the candidate for the post of Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights. People's deputies are registered, please. Please, Nina Petrovna Jujanina, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u132	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u133	Thank you. Mr. President, freedom of speech, the right to work are key values, key human rights. For four months now, the Ukrainians' right to freedom of speech has been violated by the closure of three democratic Ukrainian channels, which, by the way, were highly respected in your native district of Volnovas. Similarly, the right to work as journalists of these television channels is violated. And unfortunately, you didn't find any words in the profile committee to uphold that right. I have a question. How will you, as the Chosen One, defend your freedom of speech? And the second question. You were the initiator of the amendment to make the Russian-speaking TV house popular. Now it's FREEDOM, which has billions of dollars in its scarce Ukrainian budget. Who does this FREEDOM channel work for, if in your native Wolnovas, where we've been with you all the time, and we've been standing on the IEDC, talking to people from temporarily occupied Donbas, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u134	Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u135	Thank you for asking. Well, about why our committee didn't consider the issue. First of all, there's a profile committee. Secondly, there was no appeal to our committee. So it's perfectly logical that we didn't raise that question. On the subject of freedom of speech. Like any of our citizens' rights, if we make a statement, including from the people's deputies, we will be dealing with both the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's Office. And about the repair. I've been talking to the people's deputies, including the faction of European Solidarity. You know, my position is that I've always applied for quotas, Ukrainian quotas. And even we held separate meetings of our committee when this matter was settled. You might ask if I'm telling the truth right now, to my colleagues who are in the field of television profile. All the issues dealt with by the Lubinian himself have always been aimed at protecting Ukrainian national interests and the Ukrainian state. Thank you. I think you can confirm that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u136	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Kucherenk Alexi Yuriovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u137	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sergey Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u138	Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u139	Thank you, sir. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Dmitre, it is clear that Russia does not carry out any international instruments, no conventions, and we already have, unfortunately, a host of captives, whom their authorities, criminal authorities qualify not as prisoners, but as criminals. I want to talk about how you're practically, not statistically, as you said, but you're practically going to react quickly, quickly. Because already in the Russian Federation, people, our Armed Forces of Ukraine, our military contracts, have received sentences, life sentences for protecting our Fatherland. How will you respond in practical terms to retrain the prisoners of war and exchange or take them home after victory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u140	Thank you for asking. It's probably the most painful question we're all concerned about right now. And that's the first question that I'm going to do in case of a positive vote. How will we do this? Well, of course, the Ombudsman's status allows for direct communication with the ombudsmen of different countries, including the ombudsman of the aggressor country. For us as the state of Ukraine, it doesn't matter what verdicts our heroes received in the territory of the Russian Federation. For us, these are our citizens, to whom we will use all the mechanisms to get them out of the shadows of Russian prison and to return to their homeland. So, believe me, it's going to be direct communication, I can say it outspokenly. It's not going to be a public job, but it's going to be a job. It will also be communication through our international partners, through mediators, but this will be the main question that I will be dealing with again in the event of a positive vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u141	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Veliczovich Mikoli Romanovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u142	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u143	Irina Volodymyrna's character. Hello again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. As you know, the illegal release of the previous Human Rights Commissioner, whose work we had to ask, but right now I'm talking about the procedure, has sparked harsh criticism by members of the Great Seven of Representatives and public organizations. How can you explain that your committee was directly involved in the illegal release of the previous Ombudsman? That's the first question. And the second is dignity. Today the word "dignity" and the Dignity Revolution is unfortunately not mentioned by President Zelensky, but three times referred to Ursula von der Leyenne. How can you explain your attitude toward the dignity of the people, the dignity of the opposition, the dignity of the opposition, to the fact that one of the leaders of the opposition has been humiliated without leaving the border, demeaning his right to privacy? When the dignity of the generals who are fighting for Ukraine today — General Marchenko, General Pavlovsky, was demeaned, illegally holding them in prison only for political persecution. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u145	Thank you for asking. As a matter of fact, the procedure. According to the Ukrainian Law, a procedure was applied for which the Ukrainian Parliament voted. Indeed, this procedure prescribes the participation of the Human Rights Committee, which I lead. And according to the provisions laid down in this law, our committee held meetings, we considered the initiative of the national deputies. I ask you to see what decision our committee has made. We didn't discuss the initiative, we didn't support it, we didn't support it. We discussed what was an initiative, and as a committee, we were able to look at this initiative in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. You can see how I voted personally. Were there any questions? Maybe the question is, that's why the Ukrainian Parliament is here. I can say that I personally voted with a yellow button, not because I had no questions about my job. But believe me, from this even rostrum, I officially thanked the previous Ombudsman for his work, the previous ombudsman. I sincerely believed that every official who did the work for the benefit of Ukraine, yes, there were mistakes, as I am sure, that each one of us deserves respect and dignity. So believe me, I've personally shown, in my opinion, everything that I've been allowed to do, both my morals and my dignity. And for the facts listed above, again, am I ready to do this? Yeah, I'm ready. I don't think that's a question, that's not a problem in the case that again you're asking me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity political party. And that's the final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear Mr. Dmitre, as you continue to ask, are you prepared to defend and defend the rights of General Marchenk and Paulowski on the foolish things that have been revealed against them? They're military. And what. Give a political assessment of these matters, please. Next. Will you continue to protect against political persecution? Because you realize that democracy, the political part of the Copenhagen criteria, is extremely important for joining the European Union. And will you likewise protect the rights of opposition so that no one will influence you, including the leadership of the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u148	Thank you. For me, there is absolutely no difference between the General of the Armed Forces of Ukraine or the Ukrainian domestic woman, or the Ukrainian National Deputy, or the doctor, teacher or anyone who has a Ukrainian citizen's passport. If his rights are violated, the Ombudsman cannot simply or cannot do so. That's why it's very simple for me: so I took it as a principle to be the head of the committee, and that's how I acted. The same principles will apply again in the case of a positive vote now in the Ukrainian Parliament. With regard to political evaluations. You know, you probably know me very well, and we've been working with you for over eight years, and we've been in different situations. I thank you for coming and coming to Donbas and helping both the military and the civilian as well as the very many national MPs do. I guess I didn't always make political slogans. I knew there was a state, there are people, we need to do specific things, we need to help with concrete actions, let's say. So, with all due respect, I've never done, and I'm sure I won't do political slogans, grades. I understand that more politics is less than business. Unfortunately, this is what happened to us. So in my position, I'm definitely going to be doing business, definitely not politics. And believe me, there's no way, both legal and non-legal, everyone knows me. Is there any way to influence it? Well, I think you'll see it in the work that if there's a human rights issue, the Ombudsman will be dealing with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u149	Thank you. Thank you. Please take your place. Honourable National Deputies, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations, Ruslan Alexanderovich Gorbenko are invited to the floor. Please, Ruslan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u150	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Today we choose the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During the war, parliamentary control over the observance of human rights and freedoms is a particularly important task that a person with high authority of social trust, experience of law enforcement, as monitoring the observance of human rights and freedoms is an extremely important issue not only in our state but also in partnership at the international level. In accordance with established procedure, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyyovich, nominated Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich for office as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. We know about our work together on the committee, not in words, but in action. He proved his competence, independence and justice in the promotion and protection of human and citizen rights and freedoms as head of the parliamentary committee. He is known in the rights-based community, as our committee has engaged a wide range of public and international organizations in the process. In accordance with the requirements of the June 21st Act, the Voice of Ukraine printed information about the Lubinian D.V. as a candidate for the post of Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for information and public awareness. The committee lacks any information on the circumstances that would prevent Lubinez Dmitr from taking office as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine with human rights. In accordance with the requirements of the law, our committee reaches a conclusion to the Supreme Council regarding the nominations for the position of Commissioner for compliance with the requirements of the law. Committee at its meeting on 27.06 p.m. In accordance with articles 5 and 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, and part 3 of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, he reviewed the application of Lubinz Dmitry Valerijovich's candidacy for Human Rights and, following the discussion, approved the decision to approve the opinion of the Committee on the nomination of Lubinz Dmitry Valerijovich for the post of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights that the nomination of Lubinz Dmitry Valerijovich met the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, and the absence of reasons that prevented him from taking office. In the event of the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Lubinz-Dmitry Valeriyovich as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights and the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend him for the term of office of the National Deputy of Ukraine, taking into account the absence of other circumstances that would prevent him from taking an oath, the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall, in accordance with article 217 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, consider the question of the formation of an oath authorized on the date of his election. All committee deputies voted in favour of this decision. Please consider the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u151	Thank you, Ruslan Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for statements by the MPs and groups. Just write down who wants to speak. Anyone who doesn't want to, please don't sign up, we'll cut time. It's coming down, please, from factions and groups. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, today's parliamentary day has begun with two speeches: President Green and President Ursula von der Lyaen of the European Commission. And by their philosophy, they were two very different performances. One said that the route from applying to the application to the application was only 115 days. And in the second, the leader's speech, there was respect for the Ukrainian Parliament, three times for the Dignity Revolution and the high price that Sky 100 paid for Ukraine to become a European state, that the journey to the European Union began in 2014, and, crucially, the principles of value and institution. What there was no word in President Zelenski's statement. And that's why today I'm going to talk from our faction not about the candidature, but about the principles, values and institutions that have to work in a democratic and European state. Our faction had a reference to the previous Human Rights Commissioner, but it was really important that any assignment and any release should not be based on rules and regulations. And you're starting this assignment today from what was unlawfully released from the previous Commissioner, and we're still going to get an appeal from the European Court of Human Rights. The other one. The values mentioned three times by Ursula von der Lyain, honoring the death and sacrifice of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100th, more than the Ukrainian authorities, in which it all began 115 days ago. So Ursula von der Ljaen spoke of freedom of speech as a key democratic value. Unfortunately, we have heard that we did not refer to the political censorship of the profiling committee, so we have not heard about it from the future Commissioner. Although there was no day in this Parliament if we had not raised the issue of freedom of speech. She referred to dignity as a key position that should unite all of us. Can we talk about dignity when human rights, the right to opposition, and the right to privacy are violated every day? What really matters is the democratic values, which are certainly the same as respect for each other. The right to defend their General Marchenck, General Pavlovsky, who today, despite the humiliations that have destroyed their good name and reputation for three years, have endured, they are protecting the state today because they are officers, and that is honor and dignity for them. Our faction will abstain from this vote and call for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u153	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I don't quite agree with the previous speaker. And once again, Ukraine's path to the European Union started not in 2014, Ukraine's path to the European Union started in 2004 with a certain break in the dark times of Yanukovic. So let's be honest and honest. The first Midan was Maidan for European values, Maidan 2004, for a violation of the right to vote. This is the point of reference of our European vector of development, and here, I think, it's a completely obvious thing. As for the Authorized One of Human Rights. Mr. Dmitri, welcome to position! Welcome to the opposition! Because in fact, the Human Rights Commissioner is an opposition to power. The authorities will tell the Commissioner that there's nothing wrong with human rights, that there's nothing wrong with opposition, with freedom of speech all right, with everything all right. And the Commissioner should speak clearly, no, the honorable authority, no, with human rights there is a question, with freedom of speech there is a question, with the detention of a person in prison there is a question and so on, and so on and so forth. So this is a completely opposing position. And I would like to wish the elected Supreme Council of Human Rights to see my work in such a key, to realize all the possibilities to protect human rights. Because European choices are human rights, protected by human rights in all spheres of human activity. And the key figure, one of the key figures, here comes the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. Yes, I agree with the thesis that the previous Commissioner has been released from violations, and that is absolutely correct. But that doesn't mean that this place should be vacant. And yes, everyone has the right to appeal to the court, but the Commissioner has to work. The only thing, Mr. Dmitri, and one more remark. Unfortunately, not an ombudsman, but an ombudsman, if you want to use feminism. Oh, yes, I wish you a good job. And once again, welcome to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u155	The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, especially to us, it is a great honour for our parliamentary group to consider this issue today on such a symbolic day that, alongside the introduction of the flag of the European Union, our colleague's candidature for such a high office as the Human Rights Commissioner. You know, it's all in comparison: and this war is also in comparison, and the whole struggle of Ukraine is in comparison. Russia and human rights are, of course, incompatible things. In terms of Ukraine and human rights, we have not proved that in our history, there would be at least a separate twentieth century, how many dissidents we had in Ukraine and how many dissidents there were in Russia. Incomparably less. And this tells us that the struggle for freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, religion under the conditions of authoritarianism and totalitarianism of the last 20th century was more orderly if we took even all the allied republics of the former Soviet Union. We also proved this by blood, then by blood, and in the 21st century, when we chose our freedom on more than one field. It's all a burden on you. Not only by means of a symbolic burden but directly by working for the future Authorized by human rights. I want to say that I know Dmitry Lubintz personally very well as a man of courage, because he's from Walnobach, who is temporarily occupied as a man of labor, because he passed not one bill, not one law that works today, on internally displaced persons and so on. The committee that he headed, the important function that he was going to perform, hopefully, on the question of the depopulation and reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories, and not one more law in this direction that we need to adopt. So, my friends, I believe that the question of human rights, freedom of speech and freedom in general is a matter of blood on our flag, and we will carry on this fight with dignity, and we will choose a victory. And in this context, the work of human rights is an integral part of our sovereignty and our ongoing struggle for independence. Our request to support the candidature of Dmitri Lubinz as an integral part of the entire Ukrainian Parliament, of all factions, of the parliamentary groups that work there today. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u157	Heroic glory! Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please, instead of Joofe-Paulenko, please. After that, two more performances, colleagues. Please, National Deputy Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The war was very much an update on the importance and role of the Commissioner for Human Rights. We sincerely hope that the newly appointed ombudsman today will be aware of the question that is in relation to this official, to this person, to this advocate of society. The demand for his work to be different from that of his predecessors. Unfortunately, a traditional error in the activities of the ombudsmen was made when they switched ministries. No, the mandate of the Human Rights Commissioner is a mandate to protect the rights of a person. And what's more, during the war, when citizens and the country are faced with a host of new challenges, answers that are common to fellow citizens, and different for each individual. More than four months of war. The principles in the work of the Ombudsman should also be changed. The emergence of new social groups, the creation of conditions for their access to human rights, is or is not the most important task for the Ombudsman. The citizens of Ukraine during and after the war must have new and adequate opportunities to protect their rights. A separate conversation is about protecting the rights of a child during a war. The war called for the emergence of new groups of children who need increased attention: these are children who have lost their family but who do not have documented the death of their parents; these are children who are forcibly separated from families with changed surnames and names as a result of racist adoption, which is now taking place in relation to our children who have been kidnapped in Russia; these are children who have forcibly changed their citizenship from Ukrainian to Russian; these are children in whom parents are forcibly deported and are actually in unconfirmed slavery or captivity; a particular problem is the protection of children who are in occupied areas. Sadly, this list cannot be completed today. All these children have the right to be protected from the state because they have been orphaned by war. No offer, unfortunately, to protect these children, can we hear from the Cabinet of Ministers, we can't hear from the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights. I hope that the protection of the rights of the child, children who have suffered and suffer from war today, will become one of the priorities in the work of the Human Rights Commissioner. We also hope that the newly appointed Commissioner will be able to unite his work with the Human Rights Commissioner, the child’s rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u159	Please welcome national deputy Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the Voice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u160	At a time when hundreds of our country's defenders and Ukrainian citizens were and are constantly enthralled by Russian aggressors, Russians, not having a Human Rights Commissioner or having a bad, ineffective Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, we have no right. So anyone who is currently running for office is facing a huge number of challenges. And it's a shame that Mr. candidate for the position of Commissioner is having personal conversations now, not listening to what the representatives of parliament are saying to him. Mr. Dmitri, Mr. Dmitri, may I have your attention? Yeah, I really hope that the practice of hearing parliamentarians, not solving some cool stuff right now, is going to be in your work. So we are very impressed by the first priority that Mr. Dmitri has announced in the work of the Authorized, possibly elected Commissioner, is the job of releasing our fellow citizens, our military, our civilian. That's really what's worth paying attention to. I would also very much like Mr. Dmitri or anyone else to take this position to hear the proposal of the rights community and finally to develop a competitive selection mechanism for the appointment of candidates for the Human Rights Commissioner. We can do this. I think the Commissioner's office can take a proactive position here, given the cooperation with law enforcement. I would very much like a similarly proactive position in the matter of discrimination. Well, for example, recently, one of the advisors, either the President's Office or someone else, began to abuse the position of public activists. Unfortunately, the previous Commissioner has repeatedly ignored this position, discrimination, and I very much hope that the next or the next Commissioner will take an active position on this issue. But most importantly, regardless of who is chosen and chosen for this office, the priority of liberation by all forces of our captives should remain. I really hope it's not just words, and it's going to be real. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Volodyna said she refused to speak. But, I get it, it's backing up, isn't it? Dear colleagues, is there still a need for discussion of MPs, or can we move on to making a decision? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there no need to discuss MPs? We're voting, aren't we? So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. In accordance with paragraph 17 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal for the appointment of Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:03]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear National Deputies, I hereby announce the appointment of Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Please, the Committee (for a second, do not break up) along with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Apparatus to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have made. I give the word to Dmitri. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian national deputy Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich wrote an application for his delegation’s credentials in connection with his appointment to serve as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. I have a statement. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am putting to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National MP, Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, in connection with his personal application for the appointment of a deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:34]] For 246 Decision taken. I ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Dear National MPs, now in accordance with the proposals made by the Professional Committee in its decision, we can move on to the conclusion of the oath of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights. According to article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights makes a personal oath at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Dmitri Valeriyovich Lubinetz, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u162	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I would like to thank all the people's deputies who have now supported the selection of the speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament and supported my candidacy. For those national MPs who didn't vote. We didn't vote, I thank you, too. But I can say that I will do my best to make sure that you have not supported it in vain today. Thank you all Parliament. Thank the citizens of Ukraine. And I swear as the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. I, Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich, taking the office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, solemnly swear to defend honestly and conscientiously the rights and freedoms of man and citizen. To carry out their duties in good faith, to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and to be guided by justice and conscience. I pledge to act independently, impartially in the interests of a person and a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-01-m0.u163	Let's say hello to Dmitri Valeriovich, who is very responsible for taking up office. Hello! Dmitri Valeriyovich, this is not our responsibility with you, this is our shared responsibility, because Parliament voted for you. Ukraine has always been and is different because it is a country of free people. Save your freedom. You are authorized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Keep that in mind, and may it be your happiness. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. The time and place of our next meeting will be announced in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and our victory. With us is the truth, God is with us. Glory to Ukraine!
