ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary is resumed, I would like to highlight the need for the continued enforcement of the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the beginning of the plenary session, its passage and the decisions that have been taken in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council is working in a single plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposals of the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. According to good parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin work with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, the seventh month of the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian nation to a criminal Russian invasion. Ukraine’s defence forces bravely and successfully liberate our settlements, systematically destroying the racist invaders and their military techniques. We bow our heads to their exceptional courage. I also ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of Ukraine’s defenders and protectors, who sacrificed their lives for Ukraine’s happy and independent future. We also honor the memory of all innocent civilians killed by the barbaric Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear National Deputies, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the daytime affairs of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I'm asking representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. The word is given to Pavelka Yuri Alexiyovich, please, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u2	Colleagues, we've all had the opportunity to get acquainted with the State Budget project next year. And we support the logic proposed by the government and the authorities, the number one priority is to support and strengthen the defence, support the Armed Forces, social protection, and the Ukrainian soldier's financial security. The State Budget project has a second priority for social support for the population, and in fact, I would like to stop in more detail on these programs. In 2023, the government plans to change not only the amount of social security expenditure but also the order of the distribution of funds. There were three major programs: "Social Protection of Children and the Family", "Social Protection of Citizens in Difficult Living Conditions" and "Supporting Lowly Provided Families". How these programs work, for whom and for what purposes the funds will be allocated, is unfortunately unknown to us. During the past five and a half years, the Interim Child Protection Commission has witnessed numerous child - protection crises, and as a result, we have voted on the establishment of the State Child Protection Service. The law is currently signed by the President, and I hope that the President will sign the bill and the service will be created. At the same time, no article on the creation of this service and on the strengthening of child welfare is included in the draft State Budget. Unfortunately, the war intensified those negative phenomena that we talked about in this room more than six months ago. Unfortunately, the State Budget for the following year does not provide answers to how to protect a child who has suffered from war today. At the same time, every plenary session we vote to increase the powers of those bodies and services that work to protect and support families and children. This is because services are being reduced and the number of people are being reduced, which is working to protect children. Moreover, the budget provides for a reduction of more than 11 billion expenditure per government authority in the following year. I'm warning you to shorten the staff of the Child Services. Unfortunately, when a reduction takes place, it starts with those who work directly with children. The president of Ukraine, requiring a reduction in expenditure on state enterprises, stressed that it is those who do not meet the needs of this special time. I stress that the protection of children and the appropriate services that work for their support and protection are at the forefront of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u3	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the Voice faction, and then Jonah. More loyally, Sofia Fedina, "European Solidarity". Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u4	Pass the word to Pippa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear and dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, colleagues! I very much ask that you listen to me and pay attention, because this is not my question, this is the question of our Ukraine and our Armed Forces. Do you know who went to protect Ukraine on February 24th? The U.S.S.A., the volunteers immediately appeared who gave their last money and savings but bought armor and everything possible for the front. We have a problem, a norm that is very strangely applied, confusing income and income. When a volunteer brought a car as a humanitarian aid, putting his money in advance, the last family savings that his children need, and we say, unfortunately, on a black day that our grandparents knew about and were always preparing, and this black day came February 24th, and before that, March 1, 2014, when he fronts his car money, does he get income or income when he gets the money back? The problem with this standard is, first of all, in law enforcement, confusing income and profit. Because most volunteers are extraordinary, honest, and crystalline people, otherwise they would not be sacrificed. In matters against Odessa Oles Dizndra, Nazaria Ostrovsky, Świoslav Litinski, these are people, and most of whom I know personally, and these are people who didn't make money, but put their last. And everyone who helped them knows that. I call on everyone, first of all the law enforcement committee, to review all the rules that apply to the Criminal Code that we voted on about in March or April. And I urge the National Police to read what income is and what income is and not to confuse norm and law enforcement, and to really look for those who try to abuse humanitarian aid, rather than give up the last of their children to help the U.S.S. What's happening right now is that a bunch of volunteers stopped their activities because they're afraid, afraid for their lives. They fear that this standard is being applied incorrectly. I'm very much asking you to create a working group, deal with the notion of "humanitarian aid," "voluntary aid," "implementation of the Criminal Code," once again with the National Police to talk to the committee about the difference between income and income, that's what we're studying at school. And I believe that this trust that volunteers have, the Supreme Council, and most importantly, the Police will.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Sofia Fedina from European Solidarity, then Schwacko, "Slut of the People", then Bakunec, and on the list. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u7	I would very much like this room to listen and pretend to care. Because I'm reminded that when the Moscow invasion began on February 20th, 14th, the first to hold the Ukrainian state, the first to help the Ukrainian army, which went to the front in rubber caps and without proper form, were the Ukrainian volunteers who had replaced the state for a period of time, and as long as the state was on a level of power, it was the volunteers who allowed the army to fight. Yes, we've started with berets, shapes, socks, excuse me, cowards, food. But when the state started to grow stronger, the 17th, the 18th, the 19th year, the volunteers were already working on very specific projects and had the hope that they'd forever forgotten the needs of the army, the zero needs of the army. Unfortunately, on February 24, 22, the volunteers faced the same problem: there were no vests, no helmets, no uniforms, no berets, no heat visions, no long-ranges and all that was needed. And who became the foundation of the state? Again, our volunteers, who beyond all obstacles, outside their own interests, outside the interests of their own families, did all they could to secure the army. Today they're pulling cars, hoppers, technicians, summations, uniforms, berets, which are missing again, because according to the official military nomenclature, they're barely 42 percent, and today they're starting to hunt down volunteers who since the 14th year honestly, actively and transparently provide for the army. It's no different than the discrediting of the volunteer movement, and so the weakening of the power of the Ukrainian state. I'm going to point out that the law enforcement officers who started their anti-voluntary march from Zacarpathian Army Support Movement and Galina Jartsev, they started the search, the investigation without any available documents, now they're having a nightmare, they're breaking procedures. Only in Lviv, 46 runs. And that means that all volunteers stop their jobs because the law enforcement team has given them a nightmare? I very much hope that the Supreme Council will stop this impenetrable, because without volunteers, we will not be able to hold the army back as it should be. One second. I suggest that all military administrations report back before the nightmares of the volunteers, because it's only from the question of the report that they're starting to have a hysteric. And yes, we won't let the volunteers get hurt. Volunteers and the army are a great force! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u8	Please, Schwaczko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u9	Please give it to Dmitri Lovethy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u10	Again, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u11	Dmitri Luboti.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u12	Please, Dmitri Lubota.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u13	May I have your attention, my friends? As soon as I returned from the district, it was the Kupian district, the Izum district. Ruined cities, villages, destruction, decay, pain in everything. Katowni in Kupyansk and Shevchenkov, hundreds of graves of the murdered and tortured insulators. I'm torn by one question: What is the fault of these people? What is the guilt of that little girl, with whom her entire family is in the grave, all generations? I'm asking, what did they do? Only one: they were Ukrainians who wanted to be free and live in their country, on their land, protecting their own. Not long ago, they lived, breathed, loved, and dreamed. I ask you to honor the memory of a minute of silence for the dead. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. This inhuman cruelty has only one name: the genocide of the Ukrainian people, Mordor, the original evil. This "Russian peace" is killing our people, destroying cities and villages, trying to destroy our DNA. But they'll never be able to do that, because our DNA has a free gene, it's crystallized for ages. And today, in our Ukrainian DNA, Izum and Butch, Irpine and Kupyansk, Mariupol and other cities and villages of our homeland, where the original evil tortured and killed us for being Ukrainian. Today, in our Ukrainian DNA, the memory of our war heroes, knights of good, those who have fallen on the battlefield, and those who are immediately destroying Russian invaders today. Ukrainians never forgive Russia, the murderous states, the grief and pain they brought to our land. We will remember that for centuries. And we will win, for our people are the only ones more than ever, for we have a President who unites a civilized world to help us in this battle of good and bad, for God is behind us, for we are the Truth. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u14	Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainians! Of course, from the first days when Russian missiles flew to Ukrainian cities, we owe the bravest to our soldiers, who showed their courage the steel heart of the Ukrainian soldier and the Ukrainian people. We owe it to all those Ukrainians and people who helped and helped and wanted to help our soldiers. This is our volunteers. Because as far as anyone could, he added to the army, to the defense. Someone more, someone less, someone organized and organized large congregations. Of course, it is not the time to test these people who are wasting their time to help our army win. Risking their lives, also from the early days, the floods of the invader’s missiles and our rescue workers, the emergency workers, whose calendar day we had on the weekends, actually celebrated their professional holiday. And they also need to be given great thanks, honor, for risking their lives by considering the floods, but they did save the lives of our Ukrainians, Ukrainians, and children. And they continue to do so, although their wages do not always match their risk of life. Hence, they clearly need to increase their wages, allowing them to combine their work with other official work in order to increase their family’s wallets. They need to follow European practices and create new volunteer wives of firefighters, especially in remote locations. Because the Emergency Service, working in large cities, concentrates its work very much there, especially after the enemy strikes. And somewhere in the locations, we need to create more -- like in Poland, in Europe, little volunteer wives. And you and I clearly need to help them, to add to those people who are making these voluntary wives, extra benefits, rights and guarantees, so that we can develop the way our neighbours are developing -- Poles, as all Europeans are developing. I believe that every Ukrainian who helps gives his hand to our army to win. So glory to all volunteers, glory.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u16	Please, Crybaby. But she's giving the word. Is there a "Deliverance of Ukraine" group? Ephimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! The classic autumn session is part of the budgetary process in the Supreme Council. This year we have a double responsibility. We need to understand how the state and our people will live next year, and at the same time, how we will go to our victory and our peace of mind. Clearly, it is a complex resource of a warring country. The main priority is the army, our security and literally our struggle for the right to exist. We must also preserve our social expenses and protect the Ukrainians. Convinced that we should invest more in building our own defence and industrial complex. In the proposed budget, 42 percent of the funding for the Ministry of Defence is development expenditure. We are very grateful to our partners in the world for their help, but our own OPC is a long-term strategy and a guarantee of our national security. Special attention is needed in a community where there will be no central heating, and we must support them. The government has allocated 1.4 billion dollars to the material reserve. These funds must be turned into generators, fuel, solid fuel, and all that will help our people survive the winter. It is vital that we respond as quickly as possible to important needs and medical equipment. For example, there is a serious question at Kramatarsky Hospital Number 3. The CT scan is overloaded because it diagnoses the health of patients in the entire region, and a large number of whom are being tested are our advocates and they need immediate treatment. The problem was officially addressed to Health Minister Viktor Kirilovich Ljashka. Based on the answer, a positive solution may linger in time in connection with bureaucratic procedures. I urge the government to respond quickly to this question. Gentlemen, our struggle for independence is unstoppable, and we must be prepared for everything. We are witnessing the enemy intensifying the attacks on our energy. The goal was to get revenge for the success of the Ukrainian counterattack in Kharkishte, the demoralization of Ukrainian society, and the nuclear terror of the world. But it won't work. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u18	Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, after that I ask all my colleagues to come to the hall, we are moving on to the agenda. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u19	Colleagues, the Kharkiv counterattack and the September month as a whole can be a turning point in this war, thanks to the heroic efforts of our Ukrainian Armed Forces, which carried out an exceptional military operation that turned out strategically on the front. In the example of mass burials that have been rolled up by residents under Izum, the world has seen even greater atrocities by Russians, which can even exceed what we commonly call the Buchan tragedy. A tortured body with a blue-yellow bracelet of a defender of the 93rd Cold Yar Brigade Sergei Owl showed the world the handwriting of a man-hating roadside regime. We will not forget our fighters, we will not forget our peaceful inhabitants. And Ukraine is asking and calling on the international community to help us to investigate these serious crimes to the end and punish the perpetrators. Crimes don't last long, whether it's rocket attacks, whether it's torture, whether it's rape, or it's robbery. And the appropriate interim commission of inquiry on sexual violence will be voting with you today. We also look forward to the scrupulous and responsible work of the International Criminal Court in Ukraine and the full promotion of their activities by our law enforcement system. Colleagues, we are starting budget discussions in Parliament that can be as brief as possible in terms of wartime. We understand that half of all state spending will go to the defence sector. Therefore, it is also important to see in this budget the actual filling of the fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression, certainly with the support of our international partners, to provide all social benefits to our citizens. The 38 billion-dollar deficit for the next year, which is coming out of the mouth of government officials today, is a large number that Ukraine can cover without printing and increasing inflation, but only by negotiating directly with our international partners and supporting them by lending and by grants. So if the budget deficit lasts five billion dollars a month, and next year it's guaranteed $3-3.5 billion a month, it's reduced not only by the devaluation of the national currency, but also by the economic recovery, which is inevitable after the deep decline of the economy. So the point of falling GDP, as well as the point of growth, depends on military action in the country. And we believe that Ukraine is on its way to victory and that soon we will have an unforgivable time to rebuild the state, reform and optimize the state apparatus, the whole structure of governance, the reconstruction of the country as a whole, while the Ukraine finally took place as a great European and political nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u20	Thank you. And then Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, and after that, please invite the deputies into the hall, and we'll start the day-to-day discussion. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I think that this rostrum has heard so many patriotic words about Ukraine, I've heard so many words about love for Ukraine, but at the same time, unfortunately, this hall sees so many votes, where the direct surrender of our nation's national interests goes. Today, no exaggeration, a historic day and on the subject that I'm about to talk about, I may have a few more speeches today. This is about Bill 7650 (U) on corporateization and the de facto beginning of the privatization of Energoatum. I want to tell you that there are very few wealth left to our nation after the tenure of several presidents in Ukraine. There aren't many corporations under state control anymore, and profit is practically out of our hands, and the land is now being sold at an accelerated rate. But now they've touched on a key national security system -- nuclear energy. And today they want to vote on this law in the first reading. I just want to quote only two articles of this bill, so you know what this is about, it's a government bill. I'm quoting part three, article one: "The process of forming a society provides for a decision by the founder of the decision to turn NAC "Energotoma" into a private shareholding society." The other one. An article that I want to read to you and another in other presentations, because there are a lot of surprises for you. This is article 5, if I'm not mistaken, part four. Attention! They're counting down here that it's forbidden to sell shares in a 100 percent state-owned stock company, privatization, governance -- everything is forbidden. They're still finishing the phrase, and I quote, "except for the cases envisioned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Do you have any doubt that our nation's cool energy system went to the dump? We're the third in the world with you. More loyally, on the European continent of nuclear power generation. It's essentially, if this decision is made today and it's sent by Energoit, it's essentially almost the same thing as giving up nuclear weapons. I want to tell you that I believe, no matter what, that there will be enough statesmen in this room not to vote for this law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, we've finished speaking from factions and groups. Let's get down to business on the agenda. Dear colleagues, today our colleagues celebrate their birthday. Sergey Anatolyovich Minko, "For the Future." Let's say hello. And Andrew Andriyovich Sharaskin, the Voice faction. Let's welcome a colleague. Strong health, inexhaustible energy, triumphant work for the benefit of Ukraine, and peaceful heaven over Ukraine’s head. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the day’s vote. People's deputies, please take part in the signal vote and press the "Z" green button. I remind you, it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and hold these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Ready to vote? Colleagues, signal vote, please. [[12:38:30]] For 257 257, 5 against, 2 against. Everything as usual. Thank you, colleagues. Yes, dear fellows, we're still here. Once again, I stress the need for sustained compliance with security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the course of the plenary session taken in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, are given to you. Let us now consider these matters in the order of the day. We agreed that part of it would be discussed, partly without discussion. As always, the first question under discussion is Bill 0164. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism (0164). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:54]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's do it now: two for, two for, two for. No objections? Please register the factions: two in, two in, two in. Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the European Solidarity faction will support the draft Act ratifying the Additional Protocol to the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Obviously, this is a solution for us, for Ukraine, especially because we today have to confront a terrorist state of the Russian Federation. The Additional Protocol provides important definitions for the convention, such as participation in the terrorist organization and group, the teaching of terrorism, and its financing. And also notice that this plugin provides for the exchange of information with the convention member states through contact groups that are scheduled to operate around the clock. And in our case, it's an S.B.I. In this particular incision, I would like to draw attention to the following. For two months, there is no head of the Ukrainian Security Service in a country that is at war and is forced to oppose a terrorist state. In addition, the previous Head of the Ukrainian Security Service was released for the article on human sacrifices. I hope that the Ukrainian Parliament, by ratifying this convention, will also apply all mechanisms of parliamentary control to ensure that the BSC has all the tools to make these contacts with its partners and that the information that is secret will not have access to the rats and the rats that our individual special services still have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u24	Please, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u25	I'd like a word with Alexander the Network.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u26	Alexander Alexandrovich Network, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u27	Dear friends, our nation faces acts of terrorism every day, Russia's terrorist state is fighting our state. This protocol is important in terms of preventing and combating acts of terrorism. The purpose of the protocol is to supplement the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism with provisions concerning the criminalization of activities such as participation in a terrorist organization or group, the conduct of training in terrorism, the departure and financing of the exit abroad for terrorist purposes, the organization or other means of leaving abroad for the purpose of terrorist activities, thereby increasing the efforts of the parties to prevent terrorism and its negative consequences. Please support this important bill and ratify this protocol to the European Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, instead of Lunchenko, right? Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which was signed in Warsaw in 2005, has long been ratified by all countries of the European Union and established by the pro-European Ukraine. Today, however, it is about ratifying the Additional Protocol, which will help the Ukrainian Security Service to control people even better, especially with overseas visits, about security regarding terrorism, especially the terrorism that every Ukrainian sees in every region of our country. The terrorism caused by Russia by rocket attacks on civilians, on peaceful infrastructures, on a peaceful Ukrainian city and on a village, destroying, in fact, the pro-European cultural acquisition. We also realize that now, especially at the time of passing, the onset, the onset of a heated season, the Russian Federation terrorist will again and again launch rocket strikes on critical infrastructure objects, on TECs that will give heat to all cities, on electrical substations that give power to large cities and whole areas, so it's very important to warn against these terrorist acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u30	Please, Nemira Grigori Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction supports the ratification of the European Council's Additional Protocol on the Prevention of Terrorism. Today, more than 40 countries and international organizations are parties to this European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. But our task is not simply to join in by adopting today's Ratification Act into the Additional Protocol, our task to make this convention, this additional protocol they are operating, effective tools. And so the "Fatherland" faction suggests that, together with the ratification of this Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when ratification documents are submitted, also make a statement, add an application to the Signatories of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism so that each of these parties, countries and international organisations will recognize the Russian Federation as a State terrorist, a State that promotes terrorism, a State that sponsors terrorism. In that sense, we will reinforce the act that today, I believe, the Supreme Council will support the constitutional majority, and also provide a tool for our diplomats to use in further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the factions. I'm sorry, we're done discussing this bill. Samantha Bobrowski, right? Please, one minute, Bobrovska, and let's move on to the decision after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u33	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, it is important that we vote today. But given the presence and co-workers of the Security Service today, as well as all present in the Hall, I would like to highlight a situation quite unpleasant that occurred on February 1, but unfortunately we did not renew and, unfortunately, did not vote, and did not withdraw from the Protocol to Approve the Order of Organizing and Taking Joint Anti-Terrorism Action in the Territory of the SND States. I think it's very resonant, very perceptive to the fact that we are voting and ratifying today, and to return to this consideration literally the next plenary session. Please let the speaker draw attention to this in order to completely and definitively break all ties with the SND in six months of full-scale aggression. Thank you. So it's part of her anti-terrorist activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u34	Thank you, Samantha Anatolyevna. Alexander Alexander Netezko, I am addressing you, what Solomon Anatolyevna was talking about, to prepare one denunciation of the agreement with the SND, which, for some reason or other, did not take place in the hall, so that we can now vote and complete our relations in this part with this organization. Okay? Please prepare all necessary materials for the next meeting. Thank you. Thank you, Samantha Anatolyevna. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act ratifying the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism (registration number of Bill 0164). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:50:50]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we will continue to have a number of drafts without discussion. Dear colleagues, I may not be able to hear, but we still have a number of drafts to discuss. I'll ask them now, we'll vote in the hall, please don't leave your seats. Therefore, honourable colleagues, Law 0167, is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the EU LIFE Programme, the Environment and Climate Action Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt as a whole the draft Law (0167) on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the EU LIFE Programme, the Environment and Climate Action Programme. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:56]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on. The next one without discussion, my colleague, is a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts that contributed to the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to include a representative from the faction of the Political Party Volos (registration number 7690). I propose to accept, in general, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments to draft Law 7690. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:52:51]] For 315 Decision taken. Next, the following bill 7691 is a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts that contributed to the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by the TSC of a representative of the faction of the European Solidarity Party. I propose to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the Draft Decree (registration number 7691). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:38]] For 319 Decision taken. Next order, draft, 7741. This is a draft decree on changes in the composition of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on international humanitarian and international criminal law in the context of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. There is a proposal to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Regulation No. 7741. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:54:21]] For 319 Decision taken. Next Order 7504. Draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the General Assembly of the United Nations, the United Nations Environment Programme, the European Parliament, the European Commission, parliaments and governments of States that are members of the General Assembly of the United Nations on the establishment of a special ecological monitoring mission to fix environmental damage caused by armed aggression in Ukraine (7504). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:55:09]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we would discuss: two in favour, two in opposition. Can we vote? Do we vote, or do we vote, or do we vote, or do we vote, or do we vote, or do we vote, or do we vote? Arthur Volodymyrovich, let's vote. Ecology, yes. Come on. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the General Assembly of the United Nations, the United Nations Environment Programme, the European Parliament, the European Commission, parliaments and governments of the States that are members of the General Assembly of the United Nations to establish a special ecological monitoring mission to fix environmental damage caused by armed aggression in Ukraine (register No. 7504). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:11]] For 321 Decision taken. It's been decided. Next up, colleagues. We've got 8015 to get into the daytime. We agreed, too, without discussion. What, what? Oh, you don't? No discussion and no talk. Beautiful. Dear colleagues, this is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Black Sea and the Azov Seas and the Kerchen Strait. My first suggestion is to include in the agenda of the day's session draft Regulation No. 8015. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:58]] For 329 Decision taken. I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Black and Azov Seas and the Kerchen Strait (registration No. 8015). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:30]] For 329 Decision taken. The next bill is not discussed either. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of local and voluntary fire protection (registration number 7557). I'm proposing to adopt Bill 7557 as the basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:08]] For the 320. Decision taken. I propose to cut the proposal by half and amend it to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7557. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:34]] For 267 Decision taken. Next bill 42. 6245-d, excuse me. 6245-d, this is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to improve the legal principles of conducting audit activities in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we also agreed without discussion. I therefore propose to adopt Bill No. 6245-d: draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the legal principles of auditing in Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:23]] For 312 Decision taken. I propose the adoption of a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the legal principles of auditing in Ukraine (registration number 6245-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:52]] For 298 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, this second reading, we also agreed that it would be voted on without amendment. So I'm making an offer. It is 7728: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to improve cooperation with the International Criminal Court in criminal proceedings in Ukraine. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to improve cooperation with the International Criminal Court in the conduct of legal proceedings in Ukraine (project registration number 7728). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:48]] For 331 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next one, too, is out of the question. This is Bill 7678. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service on additional grounds for exemption from military service during military service. There is a proposal to adopt this bill, 7678. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:27]] For 328 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft law amending the Law on Military Duty and Military Service on additional grounds for exemption from military service during the war (registration number 7678). We agreed on these decisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, thank you for understanding, we have come to a constructive decision. Nevertheless, we propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on additional grounds for exemption from military service during the war (registration number 7678). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:03:42]] For 331 Decision taken. Next bill. It's already been amended, isn't it? 7683, this is the second reading, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Taxation of Real Estate Transactions, which will be completed in the future. I mean, there's gonna be some adjustments, right? Will someone insist on repairs? No one insists. Then I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Taxation of Real Estate Transactions, which will be completed in the future (project registration number 7683). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:48]] For 273 Decision taken. The next bill, colleagues, is 4079. We agreed that no one would make any amendments. Therefore, I immediately propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Law on Geographical Names for the Improvement of Activities relating to the Installation, Standardization, Accounting, Registration, Use and Conservation of Geographical Names (project No. 4079). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:33]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, here are the factions about the possibility of adding colleagues to the temporary commission of inquiry. So I'm asking you to send these letters to the interim commission of inquiry so that they can prepare appropriate draft regulations for supplementation, and so we'll fill out our temporary commission of inquiry. That's why I'm asking the camera to hand it over. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next 7645 is a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine into the investigation of sexual violence committed as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:06:37]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it anyway? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please give the word "Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich", the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u36	Maria Mikolayovna Ionova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u37	Dear Presidium, dear colleagues, I'm really sorry that we're discussing this with each other right now. We would very much like the Council to really show this discussion, because it's a very important topic. Massacres of committing sexual crimes against civilians by members of the Russian Federation require appropriate treatment. An appropriate response in the form of criminal responsibility, but on the part of both our state and international society. And yesterday, it was officially admitted that at least five cases of sexual assault against children between the ages of 4 and 16 had been confirmed. And this is really going to come to international courts. Our faction of European Solidarity believes that we, as legislators, also have to pay due attention not only to investigating the facts but also to another war crimes of the aggressor against the Ukrainians. But we need to work out ways to improve Ukrainian legislation to improve work as law enforcement agencies, courts, and also to strengthen and support and protect victims in their interests. I hope that the TSC will do the same. It is also necessary to strengthen the intersectoral coordination of public authorities, which provides for coordinated provision of medical services, protection, psychological support, and access to justice for victims. As long as we see groups, commissions, forums, playgrounds, that is, activity, and we have important results, and we don't lose the trust of our partners. Therefore, it is vital that every crime committed by Russian invaders be properly documented. And I emphasize that this is the protection and support of the victims. And law enforcement agencies are urged to maximize the search for war criminals, not to scatter themselves on the pitiful persecution of volunteers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u38	Please, Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u39	Since the beginning of Russia’s armed aggression against Ukraine, the honourable chairman, respected colleagues, has become one of Russia’s methods of warfare. Rapes and other forms of sexual violence against our women, girls, men, and boys have become widespread. What we have seen in the occupied territories of Kiev, Montenegro, Kharkishte does not fit into the mind of a modern educated person. The scale of the crime is undetectable. No one knew from us that one person could commit such cruelty to another person: torture, rape, cut off sexual organs, commit suicide of his hostages, but Russian soldiers showed us that it was a reality. Sexual violence continues to be documented. And it's important to say that they're systematic, that they're massive, and that they're aware of the deliberate cruelty of Russian soldiers in relation to our population. Under international criminal law, violence during war is prohibited and is part of international crimes such as genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. Sexual violence involves the State’s obligation to take all possible measures to investigate impartially, transparently, and effectively, and to hold all those responsible accountable. That's why Russian war criminals and their top-commanding both military and political should face an international criminal and international criminal court. We need to support those who have survived sexual violence. Therefore, the aim of the TSC is, in addition to investigating, we also propose to work on the creation of appropriate legislation. Thank you to all the factions and groups who have volunteered to participate in the commission. Please support the creation of the TSC and stand together to protect the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Head. The question is clearly to be identified and voted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u42	Thank you. I've got Sergey Mikolaiovich wrote to me, but I've been told that Cosemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, right? Please, National Deputy Kožemyakin. Dear colleagues, after the speech, we are moving on to making a decision. And I still see Sosun Inna Romanovna, and then we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, not so long ago, we passed a law with you about three months ago, which also changed our legislative base and allowed members of voluntary territorial defence formations who have the skills of lawyers, who have the skills of psychologists, to carry out mobile crime identification and documentation groups in the Kyiv region -- Butch, Irpin, Moscun, Sumskie district, Chernigiv region and so on. The bill proposes to supplement article 626 of the Criminal Procedure Code and to delegate to prosecutors. In the event that prosecutors are delegated to the International Criminal Court, they are authorized to carry out proceedings in Ukraine. It's a very important thing. Because unfortunately, some things that are fixed and documented, not by the Attorney General's Office, not by the police, but by those who have skills and territorial defences, from other military formations, cannot be legitimized. So this bill is very important. The Fatherland faction supports and thank you for this offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u44	Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u45	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry on sexual crimes must be supported. Because unfortunately, we have seen how common these crimes are, how often Ukrainian women, children, and men are victims of sexual aggression. We need to ensure justice for these people, but it is also important that we provide them with maximum support. And the truth is that the state of support for these victims of violence by the Russian Federation has been given priority by public organizations. And we need to think about how we can guarantee the protection and further support of those victims. And I'm sure that this is going to be one of the issues that we have to talk about in the time frame of the Interim Investigation Commission. We must not forget, we must not forgive, and we must support those who have become victims of Russian aggression in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making decisions. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal to take into account the proposals made by the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Sexual Violence Committed by the Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (project number 7645). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:24]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the Ordinance establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in the area of receiving, distributing, transporting, storing, using for the purpose of humanitarian and other assistance, as well as the ineffective use of State property that may be used to temporarily deploy internally displaced persons and to provide other needs of the State. I'm going to make an offer, it's 8031, and I'm going to look at it in a simplified way. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:16]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favor, two in favour. Please write down: two for, two for, and no discussion of this draft decision. Please, Majeschovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u48	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the faction of "European Solidarity" will be kept from this issue, and there are a few points to this argument. First. The truth is hard to believe in any prospect of a temporary commission of inquiry, because, in particular, the TSC of Wagnerians has shown, except that it was an investigation, an investigation experiment, or some special operation, it has not led to anything and has not been found guilty of anyone who has taken and really cancelled the special operation that put Ukraine's security at risk. One second. I would very much like to discuss some important issues, such as reports from the regional military administrations, that start with hysterics from when you ask for their reports. And in Zaporozhye's example, we can see for sure what speculations, what problems, what the theft of the humanitarian machine was going on there. And so I would very much like this commission not to cover them. Next thing you know, volunteers. First of all, we need to stop their harassment, and second of all, we need to set up a dialogue. I remember in the 14th-19th year, when we were in Lviv, when we had problems, we had a weekly meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office and with volunteers and activists, and we were looking for a solution to the problems, to the legislative changes, and not what's going on right now, when law enforcement is violating all possible procedural norms and really simply "shock" volunteers who are holding an army that provide the same law enforcement authorities with the necessary things to advance. And it's an important moment. And maybe this TSC is going to look at the violation of procedural norms and the pressure on the courts, because in the Johno-Frankow Court, I saw very well how the judge changed after the counseling room, where she was obviously having a bell call from one of the higher offices that completely changed her decision. So I would like to see political will and desire in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u50	Please give the floor to the national deputy Kolev Oleg Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People". People's Deputy Kolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u51	I didn't take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u52	Please, the next Nestor Ivanovich Sufrich, "Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I think we'll be the only ones here: no more disgraceful phenomenon than stealing, covering for the humanitarian aid of the victims and our military. It's no different than stealing. So we have to express our position, create this commission of inquiry, and help our law enforcement agencies, maybe even push and promote somewhere to fight that disgraceful phenomenon and to expose all the marauders that today are supposed to be with the traitors. Because stealing during war is a national betrayal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u54	The word is given to Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to invite the people's deputies to the hall after this, and we'll make a decision. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I don't mind this TSC, just let's face it, we've created 23 TSCs in this call, there were six of them in the past. Now we're going to create a 24th, at least five more TSCs. Well, it looks a little funny already. So, let's somehow end this constant call to international partners and create TSCs -- let's do something more useful for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u56	Please give us one final minute, Sergey Mikolayovich Evtuszek, and let's move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u57	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in view of a number of criminal conducts that have revealed our power structures by abuse, the delivery, the use of humanitarian aid, of course, raises the current issue of creating a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate these things. A number of examples can be cited in various areas when the heads of the local government authorities grant permission to go abroad to receive humanitarian aid, and they import cars, then they sell everything else. Now with the beginning of the aggression of the Russian Federation, we have to thank our allies, Poland, particularly our Lithuanian friends, the Baltic countries for their help. But our job is to see how it was distributed, delivered to the front. But at the same time, we need to understand clearly so that we don't start to "shock" our volunteers. The Fatherland faction votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Possible Violations of Ukrainian Legislation in the Field of Receive, Distribution, Transportation, Storage, Use for Purpose of Humanitarian and Other Assistance, as well as the Ineffective Use of State Property, which may be used to temporarily deploy internally displaced persons and to provide other needs of the State. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:28]] For 273 Decision taken. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, next project. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities in the state economy. 7588. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:06]] For 246 Decision taken. Next. Dear colleagues! We agreed two, two, against discussing the issue. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Tsymbaluk Mikhailovich, "The Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u59	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u60	Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, we are talking about the actual privatization of the state land of agriculture by a very, very beautiful procedure, which simply fits into our anti-corruption programs. Well, I don't think I've ever seen the world before. Remember, when a decision was made in this Chamber about the sale of agricultural land, the President said that the land of agriculture remained a guarantee of our national security and no one would sell it or rent it, it was our guarantee of the food security of the state. That was said. But I understand that the President's words in this room don't matter. And so what bill is now being proposed to you? We have state-owned unitary enterprises that have agricultural land for agriculture, for vegetation, for any government tasks, including for the national food security of our nation. What do they propose by this law? They suggest that they be turned into limited - liability associations and shareholding societies and that they continue to take away the land if it was leased, in a clear way, and pass it on to their people so that they could not simply use it, but also pass it on to a subprime. And it's not going to be run by the state, it's going to be some kind of way of getting millions of acres of agricultural land for corruption. I can't bet in two minutes to tell you that this corrupt niche is anti-Ukrainian law. But if you want to stop it, vote no. Such laws must be voted against by all Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u62	Please, Ustinova Alexander Yuriyevna, the Voice faction. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, do you know how many in the country of land suitable for agriculture? Hundreds of thousands of hectares. The state as an agrarian non-enterprise is larger than the top-3 largest agricultural holdings combined. Do you know how much the state makes out of these lands? About 10 times less than big state-owned enterprises. Why did this happen? Because historically, in years of independence, the state has never thought about how to use these lands effectively and make money to fill the budget. Because we have many different structures, the state structures to which this land belongs, which are not interested in making the state earn. Because these lands are devoted by using different schemes, different individuals for different purposes, and the state has nothing to do with this. For years, decades, I am not even afraid to say, there was a huge opposition that these countries could not use, rent and earn, fill the budget. We see this resistance everywhere. This bill is trying to solve this problem, so that the state can finally make money on these lands -- to earn, to fill the budget, to pay pensions, to pay to the military. Not the kind of flooring that these countries use and give the state budget zero. So, colleagues, please support this bill, it's very important. Let's do it for the first time in 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u66	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to say that the issue of land, the question of bread, the question of drinking water and energy is a matter of global security, especially today when we are talking about guaranteeing Ukraine's food security. Is it necessary to change the approach that is proposed? Yes, we do, but let's see that in the approach that's being proposed, there are clearly reflected standards from hidden privatization. We are saying today that the government bill proposes to make a number of changes to the Land Code, the Code of Lords, to Ukraine's laws for more than a dozen. And these changes prohibit the transfer of land from state and municipal property to the permanent use and maintenance of agricultural production. The other one. The order in which the right to permanent use is to be transformed is specified. And the third. Transfers of state-owned land are being introduced in a sub-rendant, which is being leased accordingly. The government bill has major legal problems. And here we have to figure out between the first and the second readings. Third. Superfluids are very numerous and imprecise. At the same time, GNEU clearly says that there are wrong approaches, since they can provide grounds for misuse of purposeless use, and it advises that such a subordinary should be agreed upon by the tenant. We will abstain in this vote. And I think that between the first and the second readings we need to work out and definitely change certain concepts and interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Then there's Dmitri Kostuk from the "Serve of the People" and we're going to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, surely, the use of the appropriate land of state ownership and its effectiveness today raise concerns and many questions. And changing the form of governance through corporateism can contribute to more efficient use of these lands. But we must consider all the corruption risks that may arise during the process. And, of course, the right to use land must be limited and take into account the effectiveness of possible new administrators in these lands. Thus, for the second reading, this law must be thoroughly refined, taking into account appropriate threats and warnings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u70	Please, Bones Dmitri. And then we vote. The "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u71	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This bill solves one very important problem. More than 400,000 acres [400,000 ha] of state land are being cultivated today in the shade. This means that they do not pay taxes and that workers work illegally. 400,000 acres [400,000 ha] of government land are processed by private companies with various equipment. They were granted the right to use it on a permanent basis. For decades, this corrupt scheme has taken place. No one does it, someone may work with it, but at least it doesn't solve it, it doesn't close it in legislation. Our proposal to transfer these lands to corporateization is to make them finally work for the economy of Ukraine. And I urge you not to listen to the manipulations that are, we've heard it in the market of the earth, the market accepted, the year worked, all worked well, the state worked and no one moved the land abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this law. Members, please take your seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm making an offer. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the redrafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (Journal of Law 7588). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:35:04]] For 251 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we said these bills weren't short-circuited, right? Next bill 7616. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving national regulation in the field of fish farming, conservation and rational use of water resources and aquaculture (registration number 7616). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:35:52]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please sign in. Two for, two against, please. The word is given to the National Deputy Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Nikita Marina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Nikita Marina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill that reforms our fishing industry and fishing industry, which translates into a digital field, simplifies a very complex bureaucratic procedure for granting fishing permits, fishing from our seawater and fresh water. This bill, it really can fight the corruption that is now in the fish industry and our fishermen simplify their work by issuing digital permits, greatly reducing the terms of this procedure and raising the sector to a new level. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u77	Good law, you have to vote. Let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, because it is only now the Gerasims of Arthur Volodymyrovich that we are going to vote for the bill. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! As far as this law is concerned, you know, the whole idea that it has is true, but there are a lot of things that at the time of the first reading do not allow our faction to support this bill and that we will ask for correction to the second. Well, for example, there's a term called "experimental catch," which, you know, they say, is nothing. But it's not even the main thing, it's a lot of things. I think they could be fixed to another. But the concept of "non-limited resources" is a new term. But what I want to tell you is that the introduction of industrial extraction of water resources without setting limits on their use, namely this definition, violates fundamental principles in the field of environmental protection. That's why the first reading of "European Solidarity" will not support this bill. But if, for the second reading, all the comments that are in principle in the conclusion of the GNEU are corrected, we will consider the possibility of supporting it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk and after that we vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear Sir, dear colleagues. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. A bill is really needed because the fish industry is in a difficult situation. In our opinion, this bill does reduce the bureaucratic option that exists today in terms of quotas. Business is also being simplified, as the barriers that are bureaucratic today regarding the setting of quotas and certain permits, and so on, are being reduced. But there are certain risks that can be taken to second reading, which is to continue the lease on water dancing, and there are positives, but there are risks. The "Fatherland" faction in the first reading supports this bill, will improve to a second way of introducing rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on improving national regulation in the field of fish farming, conservation and rational use of water resources and in the area of aquaculture (registration number 7616). Ready to vote? Colleagues, including those gathered in one corner, are you ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:19]] For 284 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. We also agreed that we didn't cut the deadlines. Yes, the next bill, the honourable colleagues, is 7732. This is a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Section 10, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the particulars of rent taxation for use of natural gas naphtha). And I'm proposing to include Bill 7732 in the agenda of the day and an alternative to Bill 7732-1. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:10]] For 262 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:32]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again. Please sign up. You want me to report it because we didn't talk? All right, let's go with the report. I invite the author of the first Getmantsev Bill, Danil Aleksandrovitch. It'll be from the authors, and from the committee, it'll be four minutes. Then Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich – 2 minutes and then two minutes – in, two – against. Danilo Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, you know how I feel about lowering the tax base or lowering taxes. But this is exactly the case when it is just. Why Righteous? Because we've encountered you by increasing the taxation of gas companies with two factors that are caused by gas and war. The first factor is the increase in gas prices on European hubs over $3,000 per thousand cubic metres. And the second factor is the ban on gas exports. And under these two circumstances, the situation is that the developer is forced to sell 37,000 dollars of gas inside the state and to pay the rent at 180 from the base that he's never going to get. This certainly has a negative impact on the accumulation of the gas reserves needed, on the one hand, on the other hand, it has a negative impact on the production, as it becomes at all unfavourable for the companies involved. And you know, it's strategic for us to increase gas production. This little bill, which we're proposing to the committee as a basis and as a whole, provides for the need to tax transactions for the implementation of gas within our nation at the price that is being created within our nation. You'll read the bill, there's the highest price of three alternatives, not the price of a European habu. However, if the gas is exported, export is now prohibited, but if export is allowed, such gas is taxed according to the normal system that we introduced with you in March of this year, that is, at the price of a European habu. It's fair for gas companies, it's fair for the state, it stimulates production, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it doesn't rob the state budget. Therefore, I would like to support this bill, and the committee recommended it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich is the author of an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u85	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Of course, it's a question and rent, and it's not just rent, it's setting up our so-called gas market. And it's definitely a question of rent. And the decision was taken six months ago, totally unthinkable, absolutely wrong, which resulted in a reduction in gas production by private companies in the first place. And now, as in that anecdotes, buy a goat, sell a goat. We've made a problem -- we're solving the problem now, and we're actually helping domestic gas production somehow, so they can start extracting gas. Because we've cut consumption in the background because we're running out of gas and we're not going to have enough, you understand that. Well, how do you plan on managing it? Why don't we support the Getmantsev bill, County? Because we are convinced that, according to Ukrainian laws, the Tax Code should contain the issue of rent in the law, not the government regulations, the calculation of such an incomprehensible formula. I realize that today we're catastrophically saving these companies. But that's not how it's done. And that's evidence that there's no expertise, that there's no professional approach. How does my alternative bill differ from the author's? So what I'm saying is that I'm just going to go back to the February situation this year, and I'm going to fix this price on the gas that was at the time, and actually that would take away the company from extra taxation today, and it would allow the price of gas to be reduced in the gas market. Unfortunately, there is little logic in this room, but nevertheless I insist on supporting my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we have completed the presentation of these bills. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. People's deputies please sign up. Please give the floor to the national MP Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u88	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, in addition to my speech, I would like to urge you once again to support this bill with a green button as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u90	You're all done, aren't you, Daniel Alexanderovich? Please give the word to Ion's Mary Mikolayevna, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u92	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I'm still asking you to be responsible for the voting that takes place in this room. First, it was in March this year that changes were made to the taxation system, to excise policy and to rent policy, and they accepted that from 1 March, a little bit of even a back issue, the tax base for private companies is set up, attached to the cost of natural gas on the Netherlands Habi. Was it not then possible to predict what was going on in the country, and how should we proceed? Not much, let's move on. Because of the impossibility of paying the rent actually, because sometimes it is higher than the cost of gas, the cash method was offered from April 1st, i.e. to pay the renters for the actual volume of the gas implemented. I then suggested to the committee: let's look at the base immediately, and it's quite obvious that it's insurmountable and does not correspond to the market that was created in Ukraine at this time. They didn't. Now, the back number is now being offered again to give up the base, which is defined by the Dutch habu, and to set it at the same price as the Naftogaz NAC is digging up. That's 95 percent of the gas we've gotten, our private companies don't sell NAC Naftogaz. They plug into shelters, then they'll use it to produce electricity that they're going to export to Europe that they're going to benefit from. And instead of paying a rent of 3,000 euros, they're going to pay 44,000 dollars. You know, the damage to the state by the end of the year is 7 billion dollars. Now, make up your mind, that's math.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u94	Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. I understand that, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u95	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I would very much like to be listened to by Mr. Gethmans, Mr. Arahami, head of the committee on what's going on with the gas at all. You're telling us stories about some high culture of corporate governance. Well, let's go to NAC Naftogazi and see what a high culture it is, and what this corporate government has led to, which is a catastrophic fall in gas production -- this is where the financial abuse is two, and what your previous government and yours have made NAC Naftogaz the main regulator in this so-called market. This is a monopoly in which the inadequate leader you hold in office does not recognize himself as a monopoly. One hundred percent of the supply to the population, all the last hope supply, the heat utility energy -- he doesn't recognize himself as a monopoly. And it was he who was missing this absolutely, sorry, idiotic norm -- to tie the rent to the import parity. He's taken down a private product that's been developing, and he's shown much more dynamic than NAC Naftogaz. As a result, we stopped at a broken trough. These are the consequences of a totally wrong corporation, a completely inefficient government administration, or whatever it is called, a group of NAC Naftogaz holding companies led by an inadequate leader, that's all the country already understands. These effects, unfortunately, will be felt by the entire country for three to four months when coal is not enough, unfortunately there will be no shortage of gas and unfortunately there will be no need for Operation Harassment to repeat what the whole of Europe is doing today. We need to make our full market for gas, where the price would be absolutely normal and uplifting for the population and subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u96	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Burmić Anatoly Petrovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group will support these bills because, in fact, by our decisions that were before, we have led to the fact that virtually those who get gas from commercial structures, they either give up gas production, or shut down, or sell their licenses because the rent was much more expensive than even the prices we can get here in Ukraine. This is because there is no gas exports today. So we're going to support it, even though the days before the heating season will somehow be corrected. But I wanted to talk to the authorities that we still have coal and there's electricity, where we see everywhere in the press today, we say we're going to export both. I would like to avoid making mistakes, such as gas, and to take a close look. And I think I'm pretty sure that it's only possible to export electricity and coal in the rest of the way that only our market and our population are fully available, and business will be provided with these energies. So it's a very big request from our group: notice that we don't have to destroy the back, destroy the business, destroy everything, but Europe, which doesn't fight, which doesn't have locked ports and everything else, we do some services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the final performance. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. Frankly, we have probably changed taxes four times since the beginning of the war on the rent of gas. The law, for me, is neutral enough. If you have an export ban and you buy gas inside the country cheaper than it is abroad, well, it's probably only logical when there's such a ban or a moratorium on exports, to tax it at the prices at which it's sold. As soon as it is possible to sell it abroad and according to world prices, this law provides that we are taxing it at world prices. All of it. That's the whole law he's talking about. So in this case, I can only say that we had the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Committee, the Ministry of Energy. They all supported it, they don't see the loss there, and they say frankly that's logical enough. So you can vote on the law, which has been duplicated in several other bills as an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt the draft Amendments Act to Chapter XX, Section 10, Transitional Positions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code (as regards the particulars of renting for natural gas extraction), Project No. 7732. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:57:08]] For 264 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Let's move on. Next bill. Excuse me, the decision to make in general, yes, yes. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Act amending Chapter XX, Subsection 10, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (as regards the particulars of rent tax for the use of natural gas drums). Registration number of Bill 7732. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:57:58]] For 268. Decision taken. The law was passed in general, respected colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, 5322, is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets. And he's an alternative to 5322-1. I'm proposing to include these two bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:58:39]] For 267 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:58:59]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, immediately: two in favour, two in opposition. Please sign up: two in favour, two in favor, against the honourable colleagues. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart. Only two are registered, so we'll vote fast. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Head, may I have a word with Mrs. John Klimpush?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u102	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill, as you have pointed out, stands as a Euro-Integration bill. And I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that it needs substantial work, given that it does not correspond to the position of the adapted edition of Regulation 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are now going to adopt a large number of energy-related bills, and they are all in accordance with the Ukrainian Ratification Act XXVII of the Association Agreement. The head of the committee here is saying that we have the conclusions of the European Energy Society, so I would like to stress that this is a substitution of concepts, these are different institutions and decisions, and the evaluation of the European Commission may be significantly different from those of the European Energy Society. I, my colleagues, urge you not to make any changes to those bills that might violate our commitments in the energy field at all, especially since we are focused on maximizing our integration into European energy markets. I will also point out that this bill, like a number of other energy bills, is taking corrupt risks in accordance with the decisions of the Committee on Prevention of Corruption. So we will refrain from supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u104	Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk, "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall and take their seats. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u105	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u106	Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to certain nuances that are common. The little things that you and I don't pay attention to, why this bill in this paper is going to be very harmful. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the presentation by the previous speaking Mrs. Klimpush-Cincadze, which is the correct names as well as words, and this is absolutely not a European practice. And I'm explaining what the authors of this bill are predicting. To give the so - called independent regulator, the so - called NCRECR, colossal authority to regulate the market: by determining the guilty, innocent, and by controlling the behaviour of wholesale operators, the controller will determine the important conditions for monitoring. I mean, it's totally dominating. Such a market power is concentrated in a regulator that you know very well, firstly, unconstitutionally formed by temporary members in the 19th year by certain deputies, secondly, involved in intense scandals all the last years on gas and energy markets. And so, if we're talking about, in fact, fair, transparent rules of the game in the market, first of all, we need to ensure not just the so-called independence of the NCRECR, which they usually mean to spit on everyone and send everyone, the regulator has to be responsible, the members of the NCRECR must be moral, professional, responsible for their decisions, and you and I, as the Supreme Council, have to have full authority to control and recall the disadvantaged members of the NCRECR. Without that, it will be a trap that will turn the market into a monopoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, another minute is Herus from the "Serve of the People" faction, and we're moving on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u109	Good afternoon, colleagues. In fact, we have today a bill to prevent the abuse of wholesale energy markets and it's a very important bill because it's actually about the development of competition in energy markets and about preventing the abuse of monopolies. In this case, this bill, really, we've written with the Energy Community, with the Energy Community, and it's not a separate organization, it's the structure of the European Commission, it's the structure of the European Union. And together with them, we've developed this bill and we actually have letters of agreement that they support, that's consistent with European practice. At the same time, I urge everyone to vote in the first reading and to work together on the second reading, because, in fact, we will apply, there are certain rules that can be softened. But once again, together with the European Commission, together with the European Union, we will be developing a second-reading version that is both appropriate for Ukraine and will be consistent with European practices. So thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine regarding the prevention of misuse in wholesale energy markets (registration number 5322). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:05:45]] For 252 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments for the preparation of Bill 5322's second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:11]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security (Registration No. 5860). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:43]] For-286 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:07:03]] For 246 I didn't have a button, but I did, too. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. Return how many votes for, I have to announce. Total as many as there were. General vote, as many as there were. 246 — yes. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, we agreed: two for, two for, against, please enter into Bill 5860. Please, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u112	Irina Vasilovna Friz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to see my colleagues in the hall. We will now consider with you a series of laws that relate to each other and relate directly to the use of nuclear energy. In particular, Bill 5860 of the "European Solidarity" faction will be supported. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the next bill is number 6425, which actually creates corruptive factors, which are that the authority that will grant written permission will have discretionary powers, i.e. it can give licenses, licenses, etc. This is a rather dangerous trend, especially since all these three bills that we're going to consider with you are going under the fiche -- Euro-integration. We cannot talk about European integration at the same time by adopting bills that contain corrupting factors. This was mentioned yesterday at an anticorruption committee meeting. Fighting corruption. And in this way, I ask my colleagues to take a closer look at Bill 6425 and consider making decisions about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Lunchenko Valeriy Valeriovich, MP's "Trust". Bacunec, please, Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Of course, these three unified bills are important, Euro-Integrated. We must, of course, put our legislation in all spheres, particularly in the field of nuclear energy, into European standards. Voting and discussing this legislation in the field of nuclear power, it is imperative that once again the world and international partners be remembered and emphasized about this great disaster that is at our Opposition Nuclear Station, that there will be no other cures, except to demilitarize the Opposition Atomic Station. And we clearly urge international partners, thanks to sanctions, through a common international pressure on Russia, to make sure that the Russian occupying forces free the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant from themselves and thus ensure the nuclear security of Ukraine and the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuryovich faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Colleagues, well, of course, all the bills that are aimed at enhancing nuclear safety today are very important, and the "Fatherland" faction will support these bills in the first reading. While it is important to note that there is scope for discretion, that is, the granting of very large powers to the governing body. On the other hand, once again, we can create any inspections of nuclear regulation, we can adopt any European modern legislation under the slogans of European integration, under the terms of adaptation of our legislation, but if we have such a corporate culture to manage our energy companies, which we are observing today, there will never be any nuclear security. We didn't get rid of anything there. Unfortunately, both Energoat and other structures of the energy complex today are hidden from society, from their shareholders, they work opaquely, and they are participants in constant scandals, with resales of electricity, close to affiliated commercial structures, with hidden exports, abuse in population accounting, and so on and so forth. And that's why in three years there's an energy plant, a new energy plant that's already under the new power, and I emphasize that there's huge debts there, and there's no problem, including nuclear energy. And what to do with these markets today is no conceptual vision, so we support the laws. But we note that the nuclear danger present in Ukraine will continue to increase, to the greatest regret.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Black Yegor Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Yegor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Andrew Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u120	Andrew Mikhailovich Gerus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Colleagues, this is really another European integration bill that we should all support in the first reading and move on to become a full member of the European community. This bill regulates the use of nuclear energy and radiation security. And we really want to build civilized game rules and we want to build a safe environment. Instead, we see Russian invaders occupying the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant putting it in danger because they store military equipment, they store weapons and they keep the Russian Federation's military power there. And the other day we saw a Russian military missile fly in and fall 300 meters from the nuclear reactor at the South Ukrainian nuclear power station. And there's probably a fundamental worldwide difference between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, where we want to build civilized rules of the game. And the Russians are taking over, and the Chernobyl nuclear power station, they're occupying, and the Zaporez nuclear power station, they're shooting at the South Ukrainian nuclear power plant. So let's move away from Russia, move towards the European Union and support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let us move on to making decisions. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security (the registration number of Bill 5860). Ready to vote? Are you ready to vote, colleagues? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:42]] For 280 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for the submission of amendment proposals to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5860. Please vote. [[14:16:08]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have two more bills on nuclear energy. There was such an offer on the Conciliation Council to go on without discussing it. Is there no objection to voting immediately? None. Then we go straight to Bill 6425. I'm proposing to include Bill 6425 in the agenda of the day session, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:16:52]] For 261 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy (registration number 6425). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:24]] For 272 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6425. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:49]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, similar bill 3869. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on an expert in radiation protection. I'm proposing to include Bill 3869 in the agenda of the day. Please vote. [[14:18:24]] For 294 I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on an expert in radiation protection (registration number 3869). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:18:54]] For 295 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 3869. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:19:17]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 7687. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization on Armouring Militaryly Restricted Periods of Mobilization and Wartime. I would like to propose a brief consideration of this bill. People's deputies please vote 7687. [[14:19:54]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, two against, I ask the national MPs to sign up. Or perhaps without discussion, colleagues? No, well, against factions. Two for, two for, no, please sign up. Please, Majeschovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u124	Please, Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Michael Bondar, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, literally a week ago, I was at a meeting of miners from many of the issues, the issues of problems: both funding and wages, including the question of the mobilization of miners. A lot of miners are now fighting, and unfortunately, a lot of them are dead. But we know that during the war, in this room, it was repeatedly said that the budget should be filled, that is, enterprises should work. The coal sector is just such a specific sector, where the lack of human resources has always been the lack of professional people. And it was at the convention that it was said that the reserve process itself was a mining profession, and I think not only mining, but I think there are a number of other areas where there are professionals who need armoring, they have a very long process. So businesses go to their ministries, ministries -- the Ministry -- and then to the Ministry, and then to the Mineconomy, which confirms that a particular specialty can be included in the reservation list. So in order to defeat the enemy in war, we really need a strong economy. That's why "European Solidarity" will support this bill. And I urge you to listen to the problems of mining -- just about defending the professions that are now essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u126	Please give the floor to Labazuku Sergey Petrovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u127	Please give it to Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u128	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we would like to say from our MP group that we will certainly support this bill as a basis. And it needs to be processed for second reading. And in the second reading, I want to draw attention to one fundamental point that we're going to ask to consider the hall as an amendment. I want to remind you that on February 24th, when the full-scale military aggression of the enemy began, a lot of students went to the front and joined the voluntary principles of the territorial defense unit in places, and then they were de facto mobilized and headed for an advanced, combat zone. Some of them did not even sign the contract. They do their civic military duty with dignity. But I also want to remind you that we are protecting the future, and we want these people, who today as students, to go and protect their state, to get an education. Moreover, this Act, which we are amending today, "On Mobilization Training and Mobilization", clearly prohibits the recruitment of military personnel for a special period of professional and technical education, professional higher education, assistants, assistants, PhDs. This is our professional future. These are the people we will then rely on. I ask the room, when we consider it for the second reading, to ask all the MP factions and groups to support this amendment that we are going to make, or even to become co-authors of this amendment, and to vote with solidarity in the session room when we consider it in the second reading. On the first reading, we're going to support the pro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u130	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u131	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, indeed the bill is extremely important, he proposes to clarify the individual norms and positions that apply to the organization and order of mobilization, the order of recruitment of persons who are subject to mobilization. I would like to remind you that we insisted that (and the standard taken into account) where it is important to clarify the terms and conditions of military engagement for the period of mobilization and to grant the right to armed soldiers in a voluntary manner to be appointed to military service during mobilization. And of course, in fact, we are expanding the conditions for certain categories of persons under military obligation, who work in public authorities, other public authorities, businesses, institutions, and organizations, and who may receive a suspension from the recruitment call by way of their reservation. And of course, it is important that armed persons during the period of mobilization may be appointed to military service according to their consent. And persons with disabilities can be called into military service by their consent only by their place of residence. These moments are important, they're taken into account. That's why the Trust MPs will vote and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the final performance. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich. And then there will be Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich (one minute), and then we will go to the vote. Please, Dear Mikolayovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u134	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This bill, which we are considering today, is initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is extremely important and timely. There are two key points. One point is to organize the issue of arming those military-related who can be mobilized and which are needed for enterprises, institutions, organizations that deal directly with security and defence, the Armed Forces, other military formations, critical economics that require the relevant workers to work in them in a special period or state of war. To this day, such powers of armor are, but they are, rather, abstract and unconcreteable. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to define clear criteria for defending those who are needed to ensure the functioning of a normal state: government authorities, local self - government authorities. The second very key and equally important aspect of this bill is to enable those persons who, in accordance with the Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization, have the right not to be called upon, to be called upon at their own request. I mean, we have a lot of military obligations, which, under the Military Duty and Military Service Act and the Mobilization and Mobilization Act, can't be called upon during mobilization, but they want to protect the Motherland. So this bill is designed to give them that opportunity. The faction of the political party "The Servant of the People" will support this bill, and we call on everyone to support it as well. It's designed to increase our defenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u136	Thank you. Please finish by Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemiakina, the "Fatherland" faction. Then, colleagues, we move on to making decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will support this bill. Indeed, more detail in this bill is made regarding those who can be armed, who can be mobilized. But it's a practical law, because at the time that the army had a big turn at the beginning, at the end of February, a lot of those who didn't know where to put themselves, but wanted to protect the Motherland, they went into volunteer formation. And then when they wanted to go to the Armed Forces, after they were in the Territorial Defense, they couldn't do that. This project offers this opportunity today, and they can contract and go to protect the country. Thank you for this project. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u138	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization Training and Mobilization on Armouring Militaryly Restricted Periods of Mobilization and Wartime (registration number 7687). Are you ready to vote, colleagues? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:30:53]] For 305 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7687. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:31:19]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next Bill 7475. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on the protection of the Ukrainian state border. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:31:53]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed in principle: two in favour, two in opposition. But the author asks if there are no objections, please. The word is given by the committee and by the author Zdebski Jury Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u139	The honourable national MPs, the honourable chairman, the bill draws us closer to victory because there is now war in the country. The bill, it's complicated, it changes 12 bills. Together with bringing us closer to victory, he is redistributing the security and defence sector’s components to coordinate joint activities related to the protection of Ukraine’s national border at various times, provided for by Ukraine’s laws. Is there a legislative order for the military and the Ukrainian Armed Forces to be involved in the protection and defence of the state border so that there is no problem, and we are not looking for an answer, who gave our Herson, who was responsible for the protection of the border? The bill answers that question. Taking into account the war that is currently going on with the aggressor country, allowing the military forces of the State Border Service of Ukraine, within the borderline of the Ukrainian-Russian-Ukrainian-Belarus border, up to two kilometres to build engineering and fortification facilities, and introducing a special reinforced border regime. Trust me, the mechanism that is, it'll be better than the Wall Project. And other changes that we propose to make to the law. This bill, in peacetime, we make a host on the state border of a border guard who answers and organizes border protection, and in time of war, we defend and act together with the Armed Forces. Don't twist it, please, the border guards are staying in the MVD system, and they're not going out with this law. Dear colleagues, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council has made a number of remarks, above all, that will be considered before the second reading. We will certainly come up with a balanced approach, and all the problems that come from the committee and from the ministries will be solved. Dear colleagues, the state border of Ukraine must be untouchable. And believe me, colleagues, this bill lays the foundation for a credible defence of the state border of Ukraine. This should have been done 10 years ago as a minimum. Thank you for your attention. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two in, two in, against, please register. Please, Dmitri's Oksana Alexandrovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u141	Please pass the word to Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u142	Bakumov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament must support all the issues of strengthening the state border, protecting the state border and strengthening Ukraine's State Border Service as a law enforcement body. But let's be honest, this law isn't just about the state border. And I'd like to draw the attention of my colleagues at the Committee on Legal Policy. Have you seen that there is a change in the Code of Administrative Justice, who has the right to file a lawsuit, the grounds for the action? Dear members of the law enforcement committee, would you please tell us that we have a criminal warrant? What is criminal analysis? It's a crime analysis and a crime analysis. What does that mean? It is used only where there is a trial, since it is the only place where these questions are studied. I don't want to say that this bill is bad. No, it's not. But I point out that it violates issues that do not fall within the sphere of knowledge of the National Security and Defence Committee, but rather the Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee on Law Enforcement. That's why I'm not going to support this bill. And I don't think it's worked out, because you and I have already sent it back for re-reading, and these mistakes have not been re-readed. Please hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u144	The word is given to the National Deputy of Plattskov's Aunt Mikhailovny, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Dmitri Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u146	Artem Dmitruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u147	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, a full-scale war has been going on for almost seven months, but the protection of the state border is still governed by 20 years of age. Perhaps it is too much to say that these standards do not meet the requirements of time, do not take into account the conditions of war, or are even harmful to institutions and states. The bill was written, including by representatives of our parliamentary group, in a new reality. It greatly strengthens the protection of the state border, subordinates the State Border Service to the Armed Forces during the war, and enables Ukraine’s Armed Forces to join the security of the state border in peacetime. If these rules had been in force on February 24, it would have been far more difficult for the enemy to cross our border. We believe that the bill must be adopted as soon as possible. The parliamentary group "Delivering Ukraine" supports its adoption as a basis and calls on colleagues to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u148	Please, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. I would like to thank Colonel Zdebski for this initiative, for having revised Bill 7475. And really, you know, today these changes clearly show that, for example, making changes to the Defence Act is proposed to establish that the government and the military authorities, without waiting for the state of war, are using not only measures to counter aggression but also measures to cover the state border of Ukraine. So it's already a law that comes out of practical action and from the practical experience of the laws of Ukraine that have been adopted today. Thus, it improves challenging moments and standards. And I think this bill will give us an opportunity to strengthen the State Border Service. First. The other one. To enable the Ukrainian Armed Forces to strengthen their joint response to military action and aggression. That's two. And the third. Of course, it will be possible to determine clearly which lands can now be transferred immediately to the use of border forces that cannot be used. So that we don't have questions about those, after the war or during the war, in those who loved to fish or fish for war, come and tell me what you dug or replaced here. You know, he's not going to be asking these questions. So I support and now is not the time to determine who and which committee is in charge -- we need to support the Armed Forces and the border guards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u150	Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the bill has the right to exist. At the same time, you will see what is the subject of this legislation. draft legislative framework. Here, colleagues have already raised the question of which knowledge and who, in whose knowledge, the matter should have been prepared. Can you please tell me what object? Can't we see that there's land on the ground? We don't know that we've been rambling on Ukrainian soil for two years, throwing it under a sink, throwing it anywhere. Now that we're using the military state of emergency, we're going to deal with land control issues across the border. If this was for the border, if this was for the Armed Forces, please tell us, how can we address the border and the protection system of our territory without any secret consideration? For whom do we reveal the map that military formations, the border forces will work in the area just 5 kilometers to Russia behind Izum? Here's what we're doing. That is why such a bill does not have the right to exist. He had already been sent back, preparing for his first reading, but something had not been resolved. Dear colleagues, I don't think he's ready for support today. It's about the land and the border and the coordination of activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, one minute. Dear colleagues, and after that, we are going to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u153	Colleagues, stop playing with the European flags, because there's a flag around this bill that says it's Euro-Integrated. Our committee's decision suggests that this area is governed by the legislation of the national member states of the European Union. Unfortunately, I was not heard on the Conciliation Council yesterday, nor did I receive the guidance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. The bill proposes to amend the rules on the expulsion of illegal migrants across Ukraine, replacing these powers with the decision of the court to authorize individual state authorities. Colleagues, this may have an effect on us to fulfill our obligations under a visa-free regime. Let us be careful about our obligations. And the third. They're dissipating their powers. This may also conflict with the stated purpose of the bill. Be very careful. "European Solidarity" is being maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of Ukraine’s state border (registration number 7475). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:24]] For the 250. Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7475. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:51]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I bet. Let's go straight to the next one, we agreed without discussion, and we'll vote now. Bill 7673. It's a bill amending article 12 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act on Mine Action, including during the War State. Dear colleagues, there is no objection. Then I propose to adopt a draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act on Mine Action, including during the War State (project 7673). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:42]] For 305 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to propose a cut in the half-time for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7673. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:12]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 6477. This is a draft of the National Register of Disposal and Transfer of Pollutants Act. We have repairs. Will someone insist, dear fellows? No one will. Let's vote. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we were unchanged, all factions and groups. There is therefore a proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft of the National Disposal Register Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, look, we're meeting with factions and groups leaders, we're talking about these things. Let's, maybe we'll vote anyway, because we're still going to have another speech. What's it going to be, Julia Volodymyrna? Okay. Then. Please, Shahov. Call the amendment number first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u155	106 and 228.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u156	Please report 106 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, by the way, the law is normal and can be voted on. But I'm asking you to support these two revisions in the process, and today you can't disclose the information because the enemy is hitting the infrastructure critical. Today we fight for what? So that the enemy does not know where the objects are and so on. So I'm asking you to support these two revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u158	Thank you. Your 106th amendment, it's partially accounted for. You insist on taking full account. I'm proposing to the author, and I'm asking you to identify yourself and vote. [[14:48:37]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains part of the committee. Next amendment, Sergey Volodymyrovich. 228, right? Please report, 228th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u159	I also insist on this direction and ask for the support of the hall. It is vital that the enemy does not know where the infrastructure is very important. Today we see what's happening in Zaporozhye, we see what's happening today in the Luhansk region, in Hersonsky, in the Mikolai region. We have no right today to reveal mysterious objects to the enemy. Please support 228 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u160	228. Amendment of the People's Deputy Shahov. It's taken into account by the committee in part. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's proposal, and I'm asking you to identify yourself and vote. [[14:49:43]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Julia Volodymyrna, what are your amendments? Who's it gonna be? Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please call the repair number first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u161	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Amendment number 36. The amendment proposed that the word "polluter" be replaced by the words "hazardous waste" in order to reconcile the terms used in article 1 of the Waste Act with the words "polluter" in contrast to the term "polluter" in terms that violated the requirements of environmental legislation. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the 36th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Eutushka. She's been rejected by the committee. Please. Do you want to explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u163	I'm a little short.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u164	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, the application is dismissed. The editing is contrary to the already-accounted-for, so please do not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u166	Thank you. 36 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Eutushka. She was rejected by the committee, and the committee explained the reasons. So please identify and vote. [[14:51:14]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Sergei Mikolaiovich, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u167	Amendment 97. Eutushka, Fatherland. In general, my fellow Members, that a number of draft laws that require the executive authorities to carry out certain actions in accordance with the provisions of article 19 of the Constitution, according to which the authorities and local authorities are obliged to act on the basis and within the limits of the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. And so we can see that a number of powers are passed on to both the state executive branch of power and the authorities of local self-government. Once again, I stress that this is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u168	Thank you. 97th Amendment of the People's Deputy Eutushka. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:34]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Sergey Mikolaiovich, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u169	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Amendment 122, which is rejected. The concept of "citizenship" is also clarified. "Citizen associations, their members or authorized representatives, as well as natural or legal persons, their associations, organizations or groups have such rights." I would just like to make it more clear in the law that it's not exactly the notion of "population," because we don't understand who that is, but the specifics of those individuals and those entities that I just counted. If possible, Mr. Head, please give an answer from the committee. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u170	A brief answer from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u171	The correction is rejected. The term “civility” is used in the meaning given in the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment. And taking account of this right will lead to contradictions between the rules of the law and the law of Ukraine on environmental impact assessment. So we're going to suggest that we subtract this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u172	Thank you. 122 Amendment of the People's Deputy Eutushka. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:54:13]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Please, next amendment. Puzichuk. Andrew Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u173	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, this bill, it's right. This is about the implementation of the regulations of the European Union and the creation of the European Register of Emissions and Transfer of Pollutants and the Protocol on Pollutant Release Registers and Transfer of Pollutants. "Paternity" has always supported the course for Euro-integration. And this bill was supported in the first reading. That's why I'm going to insist on most of my amendments that are designed to improve the project and make it effective, especially in the part of the competence of the authorized authority in the field of registering emissions and transferring pollutants identified in the list of authorisations.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u174	Please tell Mr. Andrew the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u175	First of all, it's not exhaustive. Secondly, it's written in such a way that in practice it will restrict this organ to the ability to make regulation. Please support my amendment, which provides for expulsion.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u176	If only we had heard the number of the amendment, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u177	68th, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u178	I'm going to ask you to start with the number right away, so it's easier for us to find them. 68 revisions. Please. Now, one second, I'll check on her count. 68th, one second. 68. Amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:56:16]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, number one immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u179	Amendment 70. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the determination of the authority’s credentials in the field of emissions registration and transfer of pollutants. We entrust this body with the mandate to generalize the application of legislation, to make proposals to improve legislation in the relevant sphere. For some reason, however, we limit it only to determining the order of reporting and the order of operation of the register. It's wrong, we're blocking the implementation of the law ourselves. Let us no longer be at the stage of the establishment of a legislative foundation to put obstacles in place to empower this body. And please explain why this position, why are you restricting it?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u180	Briefly, please, why such a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, considering the law will lead to a contradiction between the laws of the law on public electronic services. The requirements for the creation and operation of the register are defined by law. Please do not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u182	Thank you. 70 amendments were rejected by the committee, authored by Puziyczuk. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:46]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u183	The next amendment is 119. Dear colleagues, this is about the role of the public in registering emissions and transporting pollutants and waste. Colleagues, the desire to be as transparent as possible in the activities of public authorities is very good. The public should be involved in such processes and have all the relevant weights, including the importance of controlling them. However, we must not forget the constitutional system and the system of government. And in this project, the constitutional system is being ignored. And as a result, we get, not transparency and openness, but unprofessionalism and disorder that are present today in many areas of government. Colleagues, we're risking that the right initiative -- the Euro-Integration Project will remain on paper and will not formally work. Please explain your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, 119th Amendment of the Puzichuk People’s Deputy She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[2:59:08]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Mr. Andrey, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u185	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The next amendment is 121. Dear colleagues, this amendment also applies to the issue of public participation. Colleagues, we're only for openness and public control, but this has to be properly regulated. We know how many pseudo-population organizations are being created to be controlled, especially in sensitive issues such as ecology and pollution. First of all, what is the public? If it is a NGO, it is the Law on Public Associations, which reveals the content guaranteed by the Constitution, the right to freedom of association and the right to regulate its relations, but it is a matter of social union, organization, or association. There is also a definition of "population" in legislation, but it's usually an obsessive norm or a general norm. Instead, the project gives the public a subject and a specific one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, 121 amendments to the Puzijchuk People’s Deputy It's rejected. Please identify and vote. [[15:00:39]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next up, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u187	The next amendment is 125. Once again, this is about how the public is involved. What is stated in the Protocol on Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers? First of all, there's a reference to national legislation in the term "population". So in this case, this is the Civil Associations Act, which does not operate on the notion of "population," but defines forms such as public organization and public society. Secondly, according to the public access protocol, information contained in the register is provided through direct electronic access through public communications networks. That is to open up access to a register on the Internet, of course, with respect to the legislation on information. And what's written in the project will, at best, lead to a variation. Your Honor, please explain your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u188	A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u189	As far as the term "citizenship" is concerned. It is used in the sense given in the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment. And taking into account the rights will lead to contradictions between the norms of the law and the law of Ukraine on environmental impact assessment. We propose not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u190	Thank you. 125th Amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. You heard the position. Please identify and vote. [[15:02:22]] For-68 The decision is not taken. We talked about ten amendments, they're over, Julia Volodymyrna. Well, that's when we talked to you about ten. Well, everybody, that's it. Okay. Puziczuk, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u191	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Amendment 128. I address the committee as a matter of priority. Mr. Edward, what you're saying is that you define the public in the polluter bill. But, listen, the term "citizenship." Today we have legislation, active legislation – this is the Law on Public Associations, which does not operate on the concept of "citizenship", but defines forms such as public organization and public society. You're now creating a law enforcement commission. This bill will not work. It needs to be re-readed, taking into account the "Paternity" proposals, worked out to make it really Euro-Integrated and really work. Well, listen. And my amendment 128 please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u192	128. Amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:03:55]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Please, next, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u193	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 131 revisions. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, instead of paying attention to issues that, by the way, the same public points out in their addresses to us, this project has been filled with empty standards. For example, the right to request information contained in the register. Colleagues, the Public Information Act has been in force since 2011. This seems to be done for a branch. Euro-integration projects are not just a list of pre-implementation items, they should not only be accepted, they should work. Regrettably, in such a way, these are regular declarations and duplications. As an honourable representative of the committee, please explain why they rejected my 131 amendment. And why you're doing this bill that's negligent.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u194	131. Amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:05:23]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u195	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The next 134 is an amendment. The project sets out separately the right of the public to charge the decisions of the competent authority and other entities in the field of the registration and transfer of pollutants and waste. Again, this is the case when it is made for a branch. There are two kinds of charges: the administrative (the founder is the Citizens' Appeal Act) and the court (this is procedural legislation, this is a matter of procedural legislation). If this is duplicating in administrative order, no procedural code contains a subject’s appeal as a public. So at best, this is going to be an empty norm. Such an approach is incomprehensible, since many important issues are not settled, especially in the form of a refusal to register for formal reasons. If you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u196	134. Amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:06:51]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Mr. Puziyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u197	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I am addressing you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, as a representative of the committee. My colleagues, look, I still have about 30 amendments. There's a constructive suggestion: let's put this bill back into second reading, really, let's make it Euro-integration, really, let's make it work and support. My colleagues, I repeat, we have supported this bill, Fatherland, in the first reading, and we are in favour of supporting it in the second reading. We ask you to listen to us and make him work. Because you're in a very destructive position right now. There is a commitment by Ukraine to such Euro-Integration processes, and we would like to receive an advertisement for the bill. I will no longer insist on the amendments, but please send everyone back to read the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u198	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Thank you for the design. Dear colleagues, no one insists anymore. If you would like to invite a colleague into the hall, we will move on to a decision on this bill. People's deputies, please take your seats. Please take your seats. Yes, dear fellows. And today it will be the final bill for today. And then I have a request, and we're going to vote an urgent signature so that I can sign those important bills that we've adopted. We're still going to take a break and we're going to meet when we know. All right, good fellows? Ready, fellows of honor? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the National Register of Disposal and Transfer of Pollutants (registration number 6477). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:09:37]] For 228 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, dear colleagues. Don't split up, please. Alexander Sergiyevich, about signing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u199	I would like to place a motion on the vote to the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the bills adopted today as a whole of the Supreme Council and to immediately send them to the President of Ukraine for signature. Please vote. [[15:10:16]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. I'm also reporting the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association called the Russian Aggressors Court. Headquarters: Mesenceva Maria Sergiyevna and Kachura Alexander Anatoliyovich But the interfractional "Criminality" MPs are not. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, was elected head of this association. Welcome, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-20-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, we have successfully discussed with you today. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. Dear colleagues, the glory of Ukraine!
