ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian People's Party, before continuing the plenary meeting tomorrow, I would like to stress the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the beginning of the plenary session, its run and the decisions taken in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. I ask all Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, to take responsibility for the provision of the single State body of our legislator. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a single plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposals of the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good parliamentary tradition, we will begin with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, it lasts the eighth month of large-scale military aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Seeking revenge for failure on the front, the aggressor state commits daily acts of terrorism, massively shoots at peaceful Ukrainian cities, destroys critical infrastructure. Such actions are war crimes and crimes against humanity, for which all guilty ones will certainly be accountable both to God and to men, and evil must be punished. Despite the loss of daily self - devotion and heroism, Ukraine’s defense forces courageously move forward, liberating the home land from the racist invasion. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the fallen defenders and protectors of Ukraine, as well as of all the peaceful citizens who have died as a result of the aggression of the terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Honorary colleagues, given the importance of the bill, registration number 7680, amending the Ukrainian Military Chaplain Service Act to specify the requirements for a military chaplain in accordance with article 78 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and article 43 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on the Supreme Council Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence to review it and prepare for the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, as we told you yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed before the opening of the day-to-day debate to allow representatives of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who have recently participated in important international action, and within three minutes to explain the results of their activities. The address is given to the head of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the 145th Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, which took place in Kigali, Rwanda, from 11 to 15 October. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. Olga Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, we returned last night from Rwanda, where we held 145 sessions of the Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the oldest inter-Parliamentary organization to unite 178 parliaments in the world. But it is this very session, without exaggeration, that we can boldly call it historic and also dedicated to Ukraine. Thanks to the disproportionate efforts of our delegation, which has united representatives of the leading factions of our Parliament, we have done the following: First. The urgent resolution on Russia’s condemnation received 2/3 votes from the Assembly, not only from friendly European states, but from almost all countries in South America, and some countries in Africa, Asia, and the Arab world. And this time we reunited the whole world. The final version of the urgent resolution was devoted to the work of the parliamentarians of Chile, Peru, Canada, and New Zealand. As a result of fruitful cooperation, the urgent resolution condemning aggression against Ukraine and the annexation of the territory was unanimously supported by all the countries present at the assembly. The final resolution on migration was also adopted unanimously, which took into account all the Ukrainian delegation’s rulings on war crimes, genocide and the condemnation of Russia’s war against Ukraine. And this is despite the fierce opposition of the Russian delegation, which has always had a strong influence in the Inter-Parliamentary Union. And unfortunately, she's not out of her lions yet. But we keep working on it. It is also unprecedented that the second Assembly was adopted in a joint manner with an urgent resolution on the subject of Ukraine. Unable to endure the humiliation, the Russian delegation knocked on the door, switched tickets, and left the Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union in advance. And we were greeted with victory by all our friends admitting that it was this assembly that became historic and that the IPU regained its power and ability to be toothless. I want to thank all my colleagues from our delegation, namely, Alexandre Kornienka, Arthur Gerasimov, Skrum Aloni, Vasilko Lesi, Žmerenecki Alexia, Jean Belenyuk for creating a real dream team, a dream team, and making it impossible. And I want to pass on the word to Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u3	Thank you, Olga. So did we. with you and our Head have become winners of a special prize that has been awarded from time to time once a year by the Council of Ukraine. Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. What did they give us this reward for? We were given it for meeting with you on the 7th of February, despite all the threats, and we carried out our task of establishing a state of war. For a week later, we gathered and voted on the laws. For whatever the difficulty and the threat of Kiev was, the Supreme Council worked, worked effectively, worked in harmony and continued to work again today, taking into account all possible threats and exacerbations. We thank you. And I think it's the reward not only of the Supreme Council, but of the entire Ukrainian people for the feat that our people have been doing for the last eight months. We will definitely win Russia and the IPU, and Russia will be a country of exile in the world, Ukraine will win. Glory to Ukraine! I'm handing over the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u4	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. This is a reward for all of us, it is indeed a reward for all of the Ukrainian people. So thank you for showing the world the victory and loyalty that we have made. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Thanks to the entire delegation. Thank you. And this parliamentary reward, it will be in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall forever. Thank you, colleagues, for your confession. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The statement is given to the head of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the Inter-Parliamentary Summit of the Great Seven. Oi, the Great Twenties and Sevens, which took place from October 6th to October 7th in the capital of the Republic of Indonesia, in Jakarta, the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Constantine Kondratuk. Please, Olena Kostvena.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear fellows! At the invitation of the Parliament of Indonesia, which had just presided over the G-20 and agreed by the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ruslan Stefanchuk, I headed the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the 8th Summit of the Heads of Parliaments of the Great Twenties. The Ukrainian question actually entered the world order of the day, just as Anna Jaroslavna entered Europe once. By the way, Annie Jaroslavna’s monument to our queen is in Jakarta. Our Ukrainian delegation was few, and we were five, instead of more than 100 invited persons from the Russian Federation. But with our active work and position, together with our allies and partners, we used our participation in a parliamentary summit to draw the attention of the world and the entire Asian region to Russia's illegal aggression against Ukraine. We have raised a high level of questions about the global consequences of Russian aggression, their direct and extremely negative impact on economic, political, financial stability, price increases, energy, food problems, and the problems and threats of global hunger. In my speech, I turned to the leaders of the G-20 parliaments, to all the legislative bodies of the world that understand the weight and value of respect for international law not only to condemn but in no way to recognize the fairies' referendums held under the dunes of the Russian military. This forced the Russian Federation, frankly, to be very nervous and her mother - in - law, Matvienko, to hold some false memories of the need to start negotiations, now on a parliamentary scale. Our answer was clear and uncompromising: all those who voted for the annexation of our Ukrainian territories are war criminals and their place and will now be accountable to the international tribunal. The Ukrainian parliamentary delegation fought in the summit fields for each word in a general resolution. And I want to thank the head of our Foreign Affairs Committee, Alexander Network, for the fact that under his headship, there was absolutely no neutral version of the resolution in which Russia was very interested. We firmly opposed the silence of the issue of Russian aggression, the invasion of illegal, fair referendums in our territory. The G20 countries are those countries whose economies account for more than 80 percent of the world's GDP. But the world has changed and the new reality and the new challenges need quality changes in G-20. In our opinion, Russia's place is no longer in the Great Twenties, and it no longer has any moral and complete right to be there. This issue needs to be actively raised and communicated at the level of the parliaments of the participating countries of this format. The next summit will take place early in October 2023 in India. I very much want us to join together and engage all of our maximum opportunities for parliamentary diplomacy in the active participation of our delegation in this next summit. Dear colleagues! The Honorable Speaker! I wanted us to thank absolutely everyone who today joined the great parliamentary work, including at the G20 summit. I wanted us to thank our Ambassador Vasile Gamenin, for whom an incredible work was carried out because Ukraine was very active and well placed in the world. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you, and we are together to win.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u6	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Alexander Sergiyovich, a small announcement, and then we'll continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u7	According to the application and according to part three, article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Maxim Mikolaiovich Chlapuk, as part of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Voice". Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u8	Welcome. Dear colleagues! The address is given to the Head of the Permanent Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, National Deputy Maria Sergiyevni Mezenzevy, who will give an overview of the work of our delegation during the fourth part of the Paris session of 2022, which took place in Strasbourg from October 10-14. Please, Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u9	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! I invite you here to the rostrum of stars, heroes and heroes of Ukrainian diplomacy. Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Ukrainian delegation please go to the rostrum. Dear colleagues! Last week something happened that the world of diplomacy never expected. For the first time in the world, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which includes 46 nations, called the Russian regime an aggression regime. As you know, yesterday the Estonian National Parliament made the same decision. The terrorist regime is the regime that confirms Russia every day, starting not only from February 24, current year, not only from the invasion since 2014, but during the last, at least, 30 years on the entire subcontinent of Europe. We also made a very important decision to support Ukraine’s provision of air defence, which also seemed impossible in March. We are also a guide to the United Nations, which still holds Russia as a permanent member, more so, a member of the UN Security Council, who has adopted more than 130 vetoes against collective security and defence. This has to stop. Of course, the crime of aggression is the highest crime that has led to more than 60,000 war crimes in Ukraine, which have already been reported by the Ukrainian prosecutor’s office. This has to be answered and this is a special ad hoc International Tribunal. And that's not what the Ukrainian delegation says, that's what the other 45 partner countries say, and that's what we're going to be working on for the next month. The road map is being prepared and the text of joining this tribunal is almost ready. Dear friends, no less important is the return of every prisoner of war, every civilian, and every political prisoner still in Russian captivity. It is at the initiative of President Zelensky, the President's Office, the GUR that all the security services are conducting these exchanges and they are being conducted very, very powerfully, in a timely and urgent manner. And to that end, we propose to activate the work of those organizations that are called upon to do so and have their own direct mandate. This is the International Committee of the Red Cross, these are the UN structures and, of course, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The delegates of which have been visited on a number of occasions by recently acquired territories in various parts of Ukraine. PARAJE confirms Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, urges Russia to stop the crime of aggression and all war crimes for which it must be punished. We continue our work, which will be done in January 2023, and hopefully at this meeting we will not have to convince anyone that Ukraine will win, because the whole world is with us. Glory be to Ukraine, my friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u10	Heroim Slava! Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us once again thank all our delegations who are demonstrating to the world what the power of the Ukrainian Parliament is, what the power of parliamentary democracy is. Thank you, colleagues, for your work. Thank you. Showtime's up. Let's move on to the next one. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote to predict the results of the vote on matters of the agenda. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote and press the "yes" button. Let me remind you, you have to hold the sensor button, press the green pros button, and keep these two buttons at the same time until the results are complete. I mean, before the results on the board. Dear colleagues, please vote. Signal vote, please. [[10:24:48]] For 210 Dear colleagues, please, I can ask everyone to take their seats. Please take your seats in the Kingdom Hall from the Prime Minister’s chair. Please. What? Please take the cards, my friends. Let's re-vote. Please take your seats. Have you identified your cards yet, colleagues? Please. Dear colleagues, once again, I propose, in accordance with article 28 of the Rules, that we vote in a signal vote to predict today's vote. Ready to vote? Have they all taken their ballots, your esteemed colleagues? Actually, these things need to be done by the time we set up. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a re-voting. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:26:32]] For 249 For 249, vs. - 1, held up - 1, as usual. Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all the Ukrainian national MPs, representatives of the government, with the call to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than the closure of our work. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you have been given, and we are moving on to the issues of the agenda. First question. You will be presented with a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to condemn the Islamic Republic of Iran’s support for the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine (register No. 8133). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:27:40]] For 292 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:28:03]] For 261 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do two for two, shall we? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we have agreed, as always, that two minutes from each faction and group who want to discuss and vote for the issue. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u11	The President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to present the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council Decision on a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine condemning support by the Islamic Republic of Iran for the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (register No. 8133). During the last week, the Russian Federation has regularly struck non-military objects in Ukraine with the kamikaze of Iranian production, which have recently been sold by the Islamic Republic of Iran to the Russian Federation. As a result, tens of people, including children, were killed and injured in a series of Ukrainian cities, as a result of the attacks on residential buildings, power stations, clean - up facilities, bridges, and playgrounds. A third of Ukraine’s energy infrastructure was also damaged, and two diplomatic institutions in Kiev were damaged. With this in mind, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should call upon Tehran to cease immediately the supply of any arms to the Russian Federation, as well as to request foreign partners of our country to impose sanctions on the Islamic Republic of Iran for the military assistance of the Russian Federation in the form of drones and to prevent it from transferring ballistic missiles "earth" to the Russian Federation for their use in the war against Ukraine, as well as any other military equipment. The adoption of the Supreme Council's draft decree will be a step in line with the strengthening of the democratic world in the fight against the international aggressor, the Russian Federation. In view of the above, I propose to support this decision. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u13	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Then sign up from each faction, group by person, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u14	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u15	First of all, I thank all the co-authors of this decision, and I would like to point out the great contribution to its preparation by Ivan Klimpus-Cincadze, Alexia Hotcharenko, and to say that such things should unite the Ukrainian Parliament, because the adoption of this statement would essentially pave the way for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to break up diplomatic relations with Iran. Today the world has a terrorist axis of evil: the Russian Federation and those countries that are directly involved in crimes against the peaceful Ukrainian people are Belarus, which has unfortunately given its territory for the bombing of Ukraine, and Iran, of the Shahid drones, whose daily, unfortunately, various regions of Ukraine are killing Ukrainian civilians, destroying critical infrastructure and housing. And so it's very important for us, dear colleagues, in this decision not only to acknowledge this fact, but also to urge the international community to do everything possible to trace the chain of supply to Iran of dual-use items that then shape this murder weapon, to contact our partners -- to break all these chains. It is also very important that in this statement we mention the tragedy of a defeated Ukrainian aircraft, an IAU plane, and we urge Iran to acknowledge its involvement in this attack. It is also very important that Ukraine itself should start, impose sanctions against the natural and legal persons involved in the use and manufacture of these drones and sell them to the Russian Federation. Ukraine must be the first and then call on the whole world to also include hellish sanctions against Iran, which is responsible for killing the civilian population of Ukraine, and every natural and legal person directly involved in manufacturing and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u16	Thank you. Please, Paul Andriovich Bakunec, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u17	Paul Bakunec, "Trust," Lviv. Dear Mr. Head, national deputies, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, the war that this bloody Kremlin regime has begun against the Ukrainian peace-loving European people is a war to destroy physically. And that's why. Because they wanted to. These are terrorists who clearly have only one goal: to kill. And when the invaders get their teeth from the courageous Ukrainian defenders and protectors on the various front lines, they start terrorizing the peaceful population, and they're even more starting to launch missiles and drones in peaceful Ukrainian cities, villages, infrastructure. And of course, when this deadly weapon ends in the Kremlin regime, countries such as Iran begin to supply these deadly missiles and these deadly drones. This is a war of good and evil and there are no halftons. Therefore, if a country helps a bloody regime to destroy the peaceful Ukrainian people, it must divide the responsibility and bring it to the world. So any country and Ukraine that respects human life must stop diplomatic relations with Iran, and the world community must press diplomatically against this country to stop supplying it to the Kremlin regime of this deadly Ukrainian life of arms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u18	Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u19	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! By this decree, the Supreme Council emphasizes that the Islamic People’s Republic or Islamic Republic of Iran assumes responsibility for the deaths of the Ukrainians that resulted from the bombings. Today, we reiterate that it is the Iranian authorities who have taken the path of terrorism. And that's what we need to record in our statement. This statement calls on the parliaments of other states to take concrete steps towards imposing sanctions and the governments of other states on Iran, on Iranian authority, because they clearly do not produce these deadly weapons on their own. We believe that this statement opens the way for the Ukrainian authorities, especially the government, to examine clearly, and what other business ventures with Iran are working on Ukrainian land? Who are helping to finance the war in Ukraine today? This is definitely what we have to show this example. There is a very important thing for the Ukrainian Parliament to demonstrate to the world today that there are three states: the Russian Federation, Iran and Belarus, Belarus, which provides its territory and, according to the partners, also arms. The Ukrainian Parliament clearly condemns such actions and demands that serious sanctions be imposed by the entire international community. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u20	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u21	Jurchisin Jaroslav, Voice faction. Colleagues, all we want to do is welcome the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that we are not waiting for a very long period of time, and we are responding quickly to criminal acts concerning Ukraine. This can only be welcomed. And it's really important to condemn unfriendly steps and appeal to the international community for increased sanctions without delay. But homework doesn't end there. Where did the technology come from in Iran that allowed especially the Shahedes, especially those missiles that this terrorist government is now trying to transfer to another country that is sponsoring terrorism, Russia? Unfortunately, it is partly the responsibility and previous authorities that were in Ukraine, who did not oppose our enterprises, so that Ucrobanprom enterprises would very often be involved in the culinary private interests of individual business managers working with the country that was under sanctions at the time. This is the same as the result of weak politics and the international community, the so - called discharge that took place in Obama’s day. So we need to increase sanctions, we need to test whether we have any further cooperation with terrorist countries, and most importantly, we need to continue to seek recognition by Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. And for this decree, we have to vote in all the halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u23	Colleagues, the United Nations General Assembly recently adopted a resolution on the affirmation and recognition of Ukraine’s territorial integrity, 143 nations of the world supported the resolution and only five were directly and unequivocally opposed. The five nations of Iran were not included. When this resolution was adopted, and Iran did not vote for its absence, Iranian Kamikadze drones bombed Ukrainian civilians and did so today. The peaceful Ukrainian cities and peaceful Ukrainian territory, which never threatened the territorial integrity and security of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Thus, it became evident that Iran had completed the long - standing list of totalitarian regimes in the world that today poses a direct threat to security, world security, and the threat to mankind. And today we call upon those nations that have not yet fully determined how, say Israel, to determine after these kamikaze drones on whose side they are and whether it is worth further delaying Ukraine's military support. We urge the world's society to continue to build up the military support of the state, because it is also your future world security. And we call upon the international community to impose severe unprecedented sanctions additional to the Islamic Republic of Iran, and our government to immediately end diplomatic relations with that State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u24	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Voronjk Oleg Evgeniyovich, deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u25	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u26	Please pass it on to Artem Dmitruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u27	Honorary colleagues, Mr. Heado, using unmanned aircraft of the Kamikaze of Iran’s production, have carried out terrorist attacks in Ukraine that have already killed dozens of people and destroyed nearly a third of Ukrainian power stations. These drones, Iran provides Russia with accurate knowledge of the purpose for which they will be used. This goal is to destroy Ukrainian energy, destroy and intimidate Ukrainian citizens. This target is terrorist. Thus, the Islamic Republic of Iran is an open ally of Russia, which is more than a supporter of terrorism, giving its weapons to this end. A weapon that kills Ukrainians. As a parliament, we must respond to this hostile activity and do everything possible to stop it. The MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" group is urging colleagues to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question is quite clear. We need to make a decision as soon as possible, turn to our Head, sign this decree as quickly as possible and do with it as our great ancestors did, just as the great prince of Kiev, Oleg, nailed the shield at the door of King's Landing, and we have our determination to knock on the door of the Iranian Embassy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u30	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Fedienek Alexandre Pavlovich, and that will be the case. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, after this speech, we are moving to a vote, asking the national MPs to take their seats. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the war that the Russian Federation extended on February 24, this year against Ukraine divided the world into two large camps: a camp of democratic countries that understand what human rights are, who understand what international humanitarian law is, who understand what the value of life, freedom, and dignity is. The second camp, which currently surrounds or consolidates the Russian Federation, is a country that was founded yesterday by the Parliament of our friendly Estonia. And the Parliament of the Republic of Estonia recognized yesterday the Russian Federation, the regime of the Russian Federation, as a terrorist regime. And this very fitting characteristic of today is clearly and unequivocally characteristic of those nations that, like the Russian Federation, are causing vicious terrorist attacks throughout Ukraine, are helping it to do so. Regrettably, the Islamic Republic of Iran, with which there has never been any conflict in Ukraine, has taken a dark side and is supporting terrorist Russia. It provides the means of impressions that cause death for the peaceful citizens of Ukraine. So today's Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees that it will once again demonstrate its unity in recognition of Russia and its favorites by states that are terrorist and consolidate the entire Western world in support of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u32	Hero Slava! Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this matter. Please take your seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to condemn the support of the Islamic Republic of Iran for the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (registration No. 8133). Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:46:39]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, for the decree taken in general. Please, Hero out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we are deeply grateful for this constructive unity in the issue of the harsh protection of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, and our voters should know about it. We suggest that in the network of the Council, tomorrow, after the end of our meeting, a special report that highlights the speeches of the heads of our international inter-Parliamentary delegations and the position on Iran, will be delivered by all the factions of Iran. And also so that it's not the experts, it's the MPs talking about the budget laws that we've adopted and all that. In order for the next day to have a report on our two days in such a slot, our vote, our positions, our work as deputies, Parliament is working. And so that in the "Rada" channel slot, in the marathon, there are performances of all the MP factions. We're always voting with you now and I'm asking the Head of the Honourable Supreme Council to put this matter to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u34	I'm betting on Irina Volodymyr's offer. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:48:15.]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The next bill, 4560, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the car transport market in Ukraine with a view to bringing them into line with the European Union Act. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[10:48:52]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Two, two, against can we vote? Two for, two for, go for it. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Negulevski Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u36	Igor Negulewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u37	It passed, didn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u38	It's passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u39	Thank you. The bill is very good, I ask you to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u40	It's a wonderful, wonderful speech. The word is given to Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Constantine Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u42	Please, Constantine Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Every year, Ukraine loses about 2.5,000 people on roads. Today, we have another front on which people are killed, we need to bring people in order, we need to make arrangements with carriers. But that is all we have to do after the war. Today this bill is very necessary and "Paternity" will support it and vote in favour. But we would like to make amendments to the second reading, which will indicate that this bill will come into effect only after we have won. Even better, we should give some time to improve production, transporters, fix the economic situation in the country, and then move on to European forms of transport, as well as new transport practices. And yet this first-reading bill needs to be adopted, and I propose to vote in favour, and the Fatherland will support it. However, the second reading needs to be corrected, which will still be foreseen, giving our transporters time to respond after the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u44	The word is given to Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I will have a number of observations on the implementation of Rule 1071, which is the essence of the bill in the implementation of EU Regulation 1071. It's not included here, it's actually very, very fragmented stuff that's been introduced into this bill. Because there are no key things that, for example, apply to Article 3 are requirements for the activity of the car operator. It's not here. There is also no paragraph 5 in the basic bill, and in the explanatory note this is a financial and economic justification. And for example, there aren't any of these things, for example, about how managers are trained from transport. Or the creation of a system of teaching centers that improves the qualifications of managers and specialists. Why I'm so sure about this, because in September. In August-September 2018, this Rules for the Implementation of Ukrainian Legislation were already drafted. Why I'm so sure about that, because I also joined one of the economists to prepare a regulatory analysis of the real economic sector as a result of the implementation of the Rules: 1071 and 1370. And 1071 Rules are being implemented here exclusively from the point of view of licensing and terminology. And as for operators and the rest of them, there's no such thing. And it has to be here in this document because there's no network of centers, nothing else. This time. Second, if we really want to support car carriers, especially those carrying out international trucking, we have to at least get them back to that system of permits that they had at least at the pre-war level. Because if across Poland we had 500,000 per year permits for international trucking, now it's only 200,000, these are important numbers, and we have to take them into account. As you return to the implementation of the Rules, please consider this between the first and the second readings for the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the closing words of Fedin Sophia Romanovna. And I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the hall. Then we go to the vote for this bill. Please, Sophia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u47	Please give the floor to my colleague Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u48	Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we really need to adopt decisions that change our approach to licensing, to granting permits, to the functioning of car transport. But then, when we take the next step in implementing the Association Agreement and when we really want to implement and implement our legislation, we do it in part again. I propose, after all, that we give up the practice of this partial piecemeal consideration of European Union law if we are serious about making our candidate status a real membership of Ukraine in the European Union as soon as possible. So I very much hope that colleagues in the profile committee will work on the amendments that have been made, with the comments that have been made by the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union, and we will also be as European Solidarity to prepare our amendments in order to improve the realisation of the implementation of the relevant Rules into our Ukrainian legislation. In the first reading, "European Solidarity" will support this bill, but we hope that we will work productively and constructively to make it real. real mechanisms have worked, consistent with those that work in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of this bill, please take your seats, and let's move on to the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the car transport market in Ukraine with a view to bringing them into line with the European Union Act (Registration No. 4560). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:57:00]] For 308. Decision taken. I propose to shorten half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 4560, and ask the people's deputies to vote. [[10:57:26]] For 249 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next Bill 8067 is the draft Act on the Association of Shareholders "National Atomic Energy Company Energoate". I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner and ask the people's deputies to vote. [[10:57:59]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again. Please register two, two, against this bill. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u51	Mr. Head, may I have a word with the Potter of Alexia?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u52	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u53	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are considering a very important law. And I want to go to you right now: we think our faction is that it's a very premature law. In the very idea of corporate, there's nothing wrong with it, but, friends, tell me, is today the moment when we have one of our largest nuclear power plants in Europe, the third in the world, the nuclear power plant, the nuclear power plant? Obsessed! And that's today, well. Putin signed orders, otherwise. By the way, I want to turn to you right now and say, why don't we revoke the license at this nuclear power plant today? Because Putin in his command, the decree of the President of Russia, wrote that "our task is to use the licenses Ukraine has." He realizes that no licenses will ever be obtained by Zaporezka AES during the occupation. So let's use this, let's take these licenses, let's not let the Russians use our Negative Nuclear Power Plant and cover up Ukraine when it's occupied. And this is just one thing, and how many problems do we have? For example, the corporation provides for the transfer of assets. How are we going to do that when some of our assets -- and it's not just a negative nuclear power plant, but also networks and transformers -- are occupied today? Guys, it's actually impossible. Today our atomic energy works flawlessly. I want to thank all of our energies who work and carry out their duties in their place. So let's not make too much of a mess for them today, nobody needs this bureaucratic mess and unnecessary work. Now let's survive this winter, win the war, and then develop our atomic energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u54	The word is given to the national deputy Bondarev Kostin Anatoliyovich. I understand that, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u55	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, corporateism is such a fashion term, such a great European. And please show me one successful example of how a state-owned enterprise works after corporateization. The NAC Naftogaz, where we can't do the audits for three years and understand why the output is falling, and why is it corrupt, or whether the GTS operator is in debt as in silk, or Ukrennergo with his problems? Give an example. So to say that during the war this corporation will bring something for the enterprise, for the energy of Ukraine, I'm sorry, it's an adventure. Now the second moment is possible privatization. Explain why this law introduces one norm, changes the Act on the Management of State Property Objects, and makes an exception in one article that property that is immovable to public property is not subject to privatization, cannot be alienated and cannot be transferred to statutory capital other than Energoatom? So you're offering to transfer the property to the statutory capital of Energoatem, then it's clear that it's going to go directly and then you're proposing to get rid of the state of this property? Here's an example: Electricite de France -- state energy company, 56 nuclear blocks in France, 16 percent private equity. The government of France is now buying this 16 percent for 10 billion euros to make it national and national and to make it energy security in the country. So not in time, believe me. That's why the "Fatherland" faction won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u56	Please give the floor to national deputy Kozir Sergey Vyacheslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Andrew Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u58	Andrew Mikhailovich Gerus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill that I would also call Euro-Integration, because this is a process that many of our companies have already gone through instituting better corporate governance practices. And in this case, corporateization doesn't necessarily mean how we can sometimes hear that it's some kind of privatization process. And our bill states that 100 percent of the shares will remain in state ownership. Another legislation also states that such objects are not subject to privatization. I want to point out that the appropriate corporate process has already been carried out in the state-owned company Ukrenego, Ukrenergo and other companies. And it's this corporate process that allows companies to work more transparently, there's a new approach to reporting, there's a quarterly reporting, there's a half-year reporting, there's an annual report that's being submitted to the National Securities and Stock Market Commission. It also allows companies to form or create joint ventures to implement new projects. And that's actually a step forward, because the form of the state enterprise itself is atavism, it's an old form. And now the world is moving towards what should be a stockholder's society. And in this case, the 100 percent shareholding in this shareholding company is going to be the state. Therefore, a request to support this bill is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, here's Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich's speech, and then we're going to the vote. I'm asking the MPs to come to the hall and take their seats. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, and then we move on to making a decision. And then there's the Cabal, okay. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I don't think there's any point in wasting time here, we have to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, the people's deputy of the Cabal, and after that, we will vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u63	Colleagues, one of the previous speakers against the bill, are trying to position this bill as if it were about the privatisation of Energoatum. It's actually about corporateism, about making Energoat a stockholder. And there was the example of Elektrisite de France. That's a very good example. So I suggest to everyone who thinks it's a good example that they're now trying to become a 100 percent state-owned enterprise, and I want to remind them that Electricity de France is, in our opinion, a stock company, which is corporate, with a transparent governance structure, with a supervisory board. So this law actually wants to turn Energoat into the same transparency structure as Electricite de France, to corporateize it, to make it a 100 percent corporate public stock company. So let's do Energoat as Electricite de France and vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and let's move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm making an offer. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I propose the adoption of the draft Act on Shareholder Society, National Atomic Energy Company Energoate (Registration No. 8067). Can I ask you to take a seat or not? Dear colleagues, I propose to accept this bill as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:20]] For 241 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8067. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:47]] For 228 Decision taken. The next bill is 8008. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction, on the protection of Ukraine's financial system from the actions of the State which is engaged in armed aggression against Ukraine, and on the adaptation of legislation to separate FATF standards and the requirements of EU Directive 2018/843. I'm proposing to include this bill 808 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:08:40]] For 288 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:09:02]] For 243 Decision taken. Well, it won't work without discussion, because the factions insisted, I understand, right? Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to this question. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u65	Mr. Head, may I have a word with you, Nina Petrovna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u66	Please tell Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I just want to remind everyone that this law, which has been passed since 06.12.2019, has been amended 11 times, 11 times. In fact, it's a very difficult law and for the vast majority it's hard to understand, but it applies to almost every financial and economic operation. So in making changes, you have to think ten times about what to write down certain standards, because this paralyses activities, for example, some sectors of the economy that are developing. Of course, this law is especially important today. And the changes that are being made today are indeed about protecting Ukraine's financial system from the actions of a state that is committing armed aggression against Ukraine. But there are other standards that we still have to discuss in the working groups. I am not sure that the realtor’s activity at all its stages should now be incorporated into this law in order for all subjects involved in this activity to be subject to primary financial monitoring. I'm not sure that when we talk and cover up with the integration of European directives or instructions, we're going to bring whatever you think is necessary for today or something that raises a lot of questions. These questions will fall away tomorrow. But you'll never be able to rule out what we're adding. So I take it that we have to adopt this law in the first reading, and in the second reading, we still have to refine it and exclude what is unacceptable to our country, and it's definitely not foreseen by any international standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u68	The word is given to Labi Mikhailo Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u69	Please give the floor to my colleague, Olga Vassilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u70	Please, Mrs. Olga, we invite you. Dear colleagues, after Mrs. Olga Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, we are voting afterwards. So I'd like to ask the people's deputies to come to the hall. Please, Vasilevska Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear friends, in fact, 11 changes in 361 The law is caused by the challenges that Ukraine is currently facing, namely, the aggression of the Russian Federation and the monitoring of how funding, including terrorism, may be involved here. So this bill is the first one to allow financial monitoring to track citizens of the Russian Federation, residents of the Russian Federation, and citizens who come from countries that commit armed aggression in Ukraine. It's different. The adoption of the bill will allow the European Commission to implement the recommendations set out in Chapter IV — conclusions and recommendations of the European Commission’s conclusions on Ukraine’s application for membership in the European Union — so it is important for the European integration process. I'm asking you to support this bill. As for realtors, also for oligarchs, I understand the frenzy of the members of some factions that there are oligarches involved to be placed at high risk of serving with pyephems. As far as the realtors are concerned, their actions are based solely on contracts costing more than 10,000 euros. Hence, not all lease agreements that are now approved in the territory of our State with the participation of realtors will be subject to financial monitoring. I propose to support this bill because it is urgent both for our accession to the European Union and for the fight against financing. Aggressor countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u72	Thank you. Final word Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. I invite the people's deputies to the hall, and then we go to the vote. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, respected colleagues, surely it is important today to avoid the financial activity of the subjects of the hostile country. But we have to do it today and not to let the looting take place, but actually to use war to enrich anyone who wants to make a living in war, and this law will contribute to it. But there is another great meaning in this law, which is to bring us closer to the European Union. I honestly didn't see the reality of this process until February 24, and now it's real and we don't have the right to lose it. All the laws that the European community demands of us today must be adopted and we must be the only ones here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Please take your seats, we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Income (Laundering) by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction, on the protection of Ukraine's financial system from the actions of the State which is carrying out armed aggression against Ukraine, and on the adaptation of legislation to separate FATF standards and requirements of EU Directive 2018/843 (project registration No. 8008). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:52]] For 280 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8008. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:16:19]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a request from the President of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u75	Honorary colleagues, currently under consideration, one MP's request to the President of Ukraine, a parliamentary request from a group of national deputies, Wagner, Yatzik and others (a total of 28 national deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the award of the posthumously state award by the Order of Bogdan Hmelnick, the Ukrainian protectors who died in Hersonschi. According to the Rules, we need two votes. So I'm putting to the vote a motion for previous support of the MP's request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:17:18]] For 280 Decision taken. In accordance with article 225 of the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:17:43]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues! The next bill, this is the second reading, the draft of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Dear colleagues! I take it there will be a few amendments from Fatherland and then we vote, or shall we vote immediately, Sergey Vladislavovich? Vote immediately, yes. Dear colleagues, please. Gerus is a fixer. Please, National Deputy Herus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u77	I was amended to allow the equipment that comes from companies that carry out transportation, production and distribution of gas and electricity, which is imported as humanitarian aid, to be obtained free of charge from donors, so that it is not subject to import duties. I think in the current situation it's worth doing because all of the Oblenergo, the Oblenergos, they're funded by tariff money. And it's better to do this as a free charity than to spend tariff money, and tariff money is consumer money. And in the current situation, I think it's a valid norm, so I'm asking you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u78	Please, what is the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u79	First of all, the list of goods that you've offered to exempt from import duty is too extensive and requires review. Secondly, exemption from taxation by import duties is provided by the Customs Code, which does not refer at all to the subject matter of customs tariff regulation. And thirdly, Minfine and Mineconomy against the support of this proposal, which they put out in their letters. Therefore, the position of the committee does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I take it this is the first amendment, Andrew Mikhailovich, right? Dear colleagues! The amendment of the first national deputy, Herus, was rejected by the committee, you heard the author's position, the committee's position, the author demands that it be taken into account, so I'm putting the amendment first. Please make up your mind. [[11:20:05]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (Registration No. 7737). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:20:43]] For 289 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill 7636. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts to restore the land lease system and improve land protection legislation. Dear colleagues, Fatherland won't be here? It's gonna be a one-off, isn't it? Three minutes, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, and then we vote. Dear colleagues, please don't break up. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u81	Thank you, Mr. Head! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In fact, it is a positive idea of the bill to restore the normal order of rental and lease. Sadly, though, for a positive idea to me, the second reading of this law was subject to some negative changes. For example, in violating the requirements of article 116 of the Rules, many amendments to the Land Code, the Law on, Attention, Construction, which were not considered in the first reading and did not correspond at all to the subject of the bill. Cancelling the Institute for Agricultural Loss Compensation will result in the loss of local budget costs, and this is actually a risk. The exemption, for example, from the construction of airports and airport infrastructure to compensate for the loss of forest production activities, will also result in the massive use of management facilities for these infrastructure purposes, with adverse environmental and budgetary consequences for local councils. Also, the termination of lease contracts in the event of a non-registration of lease rights in three months. This is considered appropriate for the lease to be terminated when the tenant did not register the right on his own account. After all, if the tenant submitted all the documents to the registration on time and in full volume, and the registration for subjective reasons did not take place, such authorization should not be applied to him. Relation to agricultural land with biomethanol production facilities that are part of the production, processing, and storage of agricultural products. When this standard is introduced, we think, on these lands that are suitable for agriculture, mass construction of biomethane mining plants will begin, which is contrary to the target use of such land and will result in it becoming ineffective for further use. Also in the case of the Railroad, which will have the right to use land for permanent use for construction at the expense of legal persons. This is contrary to the essence of the right of permanent use, where the solely permanent user is entitled to use the area on such a right. Regrettably, the revisions are out of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the restoration of the land lease system and the improvement of land protection legislation (registration number 7636). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:25:21]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The following Bill 7243 is a bill amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[11:25:59]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Two for, two for, right? Please. You want a report? Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Fomenko, please. Fomenko Igor Alexandrovich Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u83	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Your Honor! The draft Law of Ukraine proposes to supplement article 24 of the Ukrainian Act on BSB, paragraph 21, according to which BSB, in accordance with its main tasks, is obliged to manage public property in the sphere of its administration, within the limits of the powers defined in article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. Taking into account the need of the Ukrainian Security Service in real estate objects for the further transfer of this property to the regional administrations of the U.S.A., a number of decisions have been made by the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine regarding the transfer of immovable property to the administration of the Ukrainian Security Service, such as the CMS Regulation of 26.08.2020, No. 1061, 21.10.2020, No.1311, 24.03.2021, No. 240, 19.09.2021, No. 1114 and No.1121. The Ukrainian Security Service's obligations, as defined in article 24 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act, do not provide for authority in the area of property management. The implementation of Ukraine’s draft law will allow for the normalization of issues related to the execution of Ukraine’s security services for the administration of public property. Please support the draft Ukrainian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, two in favor, two in favor. Please sign up. Let's rewrite it. Please, Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u85	Please give the word to Alexander Zavávnević.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u86	Alexander Zavávnevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, please support. A very simple bill, the deputy minister explained. I'm sorry, in my experience, when full-scale aggression began, we were unable to deliver a bus to the people who were going to transport people to the Armed Forces. And on the contrary, no operations with the Security Service property are now very, well, this procedure is complicated. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u88	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich. The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u89	May I present, Mr. Head, the word of Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u90	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u91	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, well, a bit of a strange law, frankly. I don't understand. I mean, all these years, 30 years, the Ukrainian Security Service hasn't run any property, hasn't used any bus? Well, that sounds strange and incomprehensible to us. We support the Security Service in everything. Today, Ukrainian security officers are defending our country in the front. And I want to thank all BSS officers who are conscientiously carrying out their military duties that defend our state today. And we do everything, we support the budget, we support all the decisions where we can, so that our BSS officers can actually work. I personally owe my life to the Ukrainian Security Service, which stopped the attacks on my life twice and the kidnapping once. So, of course, anything that can be, whatever help, we will provide. But this bill looks very strange, and I don't understand it, and we don't understand its true purpose, because in the leadership of the Ukrainian Security Service, everything is not so great. Let's remind ourselves of General Naumov, who led the internal security of the SBA, who ran and was detained at the border with Serbia with diamonds, diamonds, money and more. Are these the diamonds are the best friends of the generals? Now he's out there asking for shelter in Russia. Whose agent was that? What about those who gave up Herson and who were in charge of crime? As far as Bakanov is concerned, we have not yet heard the answer, he was released from a very serious article, and an investigation is under way, where are the results of this investigation? So, my friends, we will not uphold this law. Betrayal in the management of the BAF needs to be fully exposed and burned with the iron of the knee, otherwise you can't. And all the U.S. officers who defend Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u92	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Head. I think we need to talk less today and work faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u94	Yes, please, the written Eutuszek, but it does. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, indeed, the law is very simple, we support this bill, the faction votes. But that's not what this is about. I would like to say the following as a person who has worked for 22 years both in the military and in the counterintelligence of the Ukrainian Security Service. That's what our political games with the Ukrainian Security Service Act are about today. Addressing Mr. Alexander, the members of the committee who may have ignored some of the professional things, the thinking of the professionals who are in this room, who have been tipped off from the other side, to what today it is. First. In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Security Service today, the Central Authority is to be a military counterintelligence body. So I'll tell you, if anyone doesn't know, if anyone doesn't know on the committee, there's no military counter-intelligence agency in Ukraine today. Why? Because military counterintelligence is now carrying out its mission to the peaceful states. One. The other one. Herson and Mikolayev are just the consequences, without, you know, sorry, such a leadership of the Ukrainian Security Service, which I won't say, you know, what it was like. And the committee and we MPs didn't help the Security Service, unfortunately. There should be military formations in the Security Service. Who's going to tell me today where there's at least one military formation at the S.U.S.A.? One hundred and fifty thousand pensioners, including me, standing on special military bills, I cannot come to the military, I only go to the station to be taken. But they're not like me, because they're taking prosecutors, police officers, and they don't need former S.B.I. workers. It's a disgrace. So I'd like to ask you, MPs, to the committee: well, hint, let them do the law that is, if you haven't been able to accept another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, are you ready? I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act (registration number 7243). Ready to vote? Ready? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:34:45]] For 261 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7243. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:35:10]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the final draft of today's bill, we've managed to achieve some kind of compromise there -- this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 -- on the creation of a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression (registration No. 8027). After this bill, we agreed instead of all the amendments, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin will take the word. Then there will be, I take it, two amendments -- Galina Mikolayevna, one amendment -- Razumkov. And we vote. Right, dear fellows? Three amendments from the EU will be made, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that's what we end up putting on confirmation. Okay. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we will pay attention and listen to each other. Dear colleagues, please, Nina Petrovno, how many minutes do you take? Ten minutes Nina Petrovna, then three amendments, more faithfully, two amendments to Galina Mikolayovna, one amendment to Dmitri Alexandrovich, three amendments to the EU and we vote. Nina Petrovno, 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention, because at first glance it would seem necessary to make the changes that are being made to the Ukrainian State Budget for the 22nd year. They have little to do with what we voted and adopted on the first reading of the state budget, the State Budget Act of 2023. And in presenting it and discussing it, everyone pointed out that in the 23rd year budget there was such a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression, which is foreseen under the budget programme of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Fund for the Elimination of the Consequences of Armed Aggression (code 3511430). And then those colleagues who voted in favour of the draft State Budget Act for the 23rd year said that we did everything we could to make sure that all the funds were directed to the defence and security sector. But already in that draft law, this fund, which accurately copies the Social and Economic Development Fund, in all its aspects from the purpose of creating this fund, from the allocation of funds that are allocated to the constituencies loyal to the vote, most votes in the Supreme Council, and so on. So today I'd like to pay attention, if we're talking about what's going to be created in the country, it's going to be a fund like this. Obviously, for some reason, we feel that other sources have not yet been arranged with our partners to eliminate the consequences of armed aggression. I would like you all to see, before the second reading, a few amendments have been made to the new directions for using these funds. And I've got more. And we have a question, please tell me, this is the only source for today, this is the only organised budget for Ukrainian citizens for the acquisition, repair of all the damaged property, housing of these citizens and so on? Why we talk so much about the country’s creation of certain registers of objects that have been affected, the country’s work with partners, donors, the restoration of whole cities that we have heard about for months in a row. But it turns out that, no, today, by amending the second reading in the last minutes, it is obvious that this is or is not the only source, the funds being removed from the citizens of the Russian Federation, which are located in the territory of Ukraine, forcibly removed, within the framework of the Law that was passed by us, "On the basic principles of forced removal in Ukraine of property rights objects of the Russian Federation and its residents," and the funds to be received by the State from the sale of the deleted property. And here you all need to notice that this bill is made up of two parts: it's a foundation for overcoming the consequences of Russian aggression, but it completely repeats all the principles of things to the socioconomy that we're up against. Because it is not possible for our deputies to allocate these funds to their districts right now and for the rest of the citizens not to give or feel that there has been less damage to infrastructure and so on. And the second part of the draft law, it refers to making changes specifically about forced deletion. So the state is now saying that all objects that will be removed from the property of the Russian Federation and its residents will not be transferred to permanent ownership of specialised state-owned enterprises, nor will they be transferred on a permanent basis to enterprises that are 100 percent state-owned. Everything will only be transferred to the office until the sale of this property. And here we have to note that some of our colleagues said that this fund could be filled by the end of the year for 20 billion dollars. My colleagues, I'm paying your attention, yesterday we voted a very scary thing about increasing the government budget deficit by 368 billion dollars to provide for the defence and security sector. And we, despite the fact that this is a new inflationary outflow, because it's likely to be a forced printing of funds, we voted in favour of this bill. But today there is no way to vote for such things. If this fund is being created, it's just being distributed here by us, by the deputies, not by agreement with the profile committee and the Cabinet of Ministers. Here we all have to assess the level of damage or the level of demand in all of our territories and allocate these costs in this way. We need to finish with the socioconomy. We're right now in the turbulence zone of all issues. And so, by no means can we buy or sell our presence in the public hall again. Citizens are all equal. We have to treat everyone the same way. So this is a very important thing that we have to do right now. If a fund is being set up, if briefly, let's share the funds here with you, not separate individual deputies and individual districts, assign them exclusively to joint decisions and not pass them on to the Cabinet of Ministers. It seems to me that there will be much more talk with you about the effectiveness of the rules of the Law itself on the principles of compulsory removal of property items of the Russian Federation and its residents. We have to act very cautiously because it's a large number of businesses that exactly in the transfer of ownership, sales and everything else will change their business, it will be reduced or completely stopped. Therefore, we must deal with everything with understanding and full responsibility here, the deputies, not just the Cabinet, who will make all the decisions. So unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of this bill. And there's actually a couple of completely inequitable amendments that, I think, in the hall, they're going to be looking at confirmation. But for this moment, I want to call on all the leaders of Parliament, all the national MPs. Let's create this fund, but so that all the territories and MPs that represent these territories have access to money to deal with the consequences. We were against the socioconomy, and we can't spend as much as 20 billion by the end of the year on roads as much as 60 billion, and so on. You figure it out, we've already raised 100 billion funds in this room that could go into the defense and security sector yesterday instead of increasing the budget deficit. Our faction will support absolutely all the proposals that relate to the financing of the Armed Forces, but we must have a cold mind and a thoughtful attitude toward what we are offered. I'm just sure that most of you, colleagues, when they talk about this fund as a fund of salvation for people, really think that every person can get to pay for the damage they've suffered from the Money Fund. But for today, everything looks different, and it's all set out in this law, which is now going to vote. I don't think anyone who can read, deal with all these rules of law and doesn't support a lot of money during war. We are against this law. I ask you to abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u98	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's move on to the amendments. Galina Mikolayevna, call the repair number and explain. I'm asking a committee representative to take a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u99	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Regulation No. 125. It's about what should be the basis for the cost of the fund to eliminate the consequences, including construction, new construction, reconstruction, if necessary, for the needs of family forms of upbringing and small group homes for orphans and deprived of parental care, as well as the purchase of social services for such children. The point is that today our children’s homes are also destroyed, volunteers are raising funds, and this morning, she was reading a post from Katy Osadchiy, who is raising funds for the renovation of such houses. At the same time, there is no basis in the liquidation fund for possible costs when sources are available to build such buildings. Please support our children to live in normal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 125th Amendment of the Trinitarian People’s Deputy. What is the position of the committee? Did you say no at first, what's your position now?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u101	The Committee believes that the rehabilitation fund concentrates its efforts on the restoration of housing and everything in this area. But if the hall decides to support this amendment, it will be counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 125th Amendment of the Trinitarian People’s Deputy. She was rejected by the committee, but Galina Mikolayevna demands that she be considered, the position of the committee you have heard. I'm voting on the 125th amendment of Nicholas the Third. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:48:06]] For 252 Decision taken. Galina Mikolayevna, what's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor, thank you, Your Honor! 128, it also refers to another reason that is not foreseen in the fund for the elimination of consequences, namely, what is being considered in our committee in Bill 7353 by Mr. Frolová. And this amendment tells us that Kabdin can determine by determination how this is paid. What are we talking about? That this liquidation fund could be used to compensate for the damage and health of people working in critical infrastructure. We have 182 people who have died while performing their professional duties on critical infrastructure objects under the rockets of invaders. This can only be used for compensation if Bill 7353 is passed, and if it is written in this direction, after the Cabinet of Ministers has passed its decision. Please support and finally implement.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, 128th Amendment of Galina Mikolayovna Tretiakovova What is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u105	The committee believes that such an offer should be supported. Thank you, Hall, for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues! 128. The amendment of Galina Mikolayovna Tretajkova, she justified it, the position of the committee, the representative, more faithfully, the head of the committee you heard. Please, I'm putting 128 amendments on maintenance. Please, 128 amendments, please vote. [[11:50:09]] For 268. Correction accepted. Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Now for a second, Dmitri Alexanderovich said he was. He's gone, isn't he? Please. What's that? 191, now we're going to find her, one second, 191. Please, Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u107	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. See, this amendment gives additional authority to the CMU to regulate the transfer of funds to individual local budgets from one local council to another in the form of an inter-budget transfer, to the corresponding local budget. Colleagues, how long can additional powers be given to the CMU? I think they're about to decide everything in this state, instead of the Supreme Council, the President, the local self-government and the local government. And then there's the extra. This law violates the Code of Budgets, since it can only be amended by laws amending the Code of Budgets under article 4 of the Code. So, colleagues, please place it on confirmation and do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u108	Okay. Dear colleagues, before I make this amendment for confirmation, I would like to ask, will no one else be able to take their amendments into account? No, it's not. Then let's move on to the amendments. Who? Are there any more puzichuks? Is that what you're doing? Then let's vote this one, because it's simple. I asked, I was told only two amendments would be Galina Mikolayevna. How much do you have, Mr. Andrew? How many amendments? One. One amendment, that's all, isn't it? Okay. Now. Let's do it, fellow officers, 191 revisions. I give my word to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u109	The position of the committee has not changed, we support this amendment and we ask the hall to support it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u110	Thank you. Honorable Colleagues, 191 Amendments, Authorship of Oblivious and Chulak She's a committee member. National MP Mikisha is asking for confirmation. The committee insists that it remain accountable, so please vote. [[11:52:52]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, Andrew Puziyczuk or who?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u111	92nd Krulko, 93rd Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u112	Who's it gonna be? Ivanovich Krulko, please. Dear colleagues, you may step out of the way, I do not see the national deputies, they are forced to raise their hands by five men. I don't understand how many amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u113	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, 92 amendments are partially considered by the committee. I suggested adding electricity and lighting to the bill of restoration as a result of Russian aggression. We know how much Ukrainian cities and communities are now suffering from the fact that they are being hit by these devices to provide electricity and lighting. So I'd like to take this completely into account: both electricity and lighting. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u114	What is the position of the committee? Yuri Yuriovich, position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u115	Yes, the committee supports Mr. Krulk's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u116	Okay. Dear colleagues, the 92nd Amendment of People's Deputy Krulka. It is considered in part by the committee, John Ivanovich requires that it be taken fully into account. I'm betting on the proposal of the author of this amendment. Please vote. [[11:54:35]] For 244 Decision taken. The amendment is fully accounted for. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, my amendment is similar to that of John Ivanovich Krulk, partially counted. What does it mean, and what do I ask you to do? That after the words "heat supply," add the words "electricity and gas supply." We see this week, last week, that the enemy is hitting on Ukraine's energy system. With high probability, the gas supply system can be hit, and the Cabinet of Ministers should be able to respond quickly to these calls and restore the electrical and gas supply systems. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u119	The committee agrees to take it fully into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 93rd Amendment of the Puzichuk People’s Deputy It's taken into account in part, the author insists on full accounting, the author's argument you've heard, the representative of the committee doesn't object. So I'm proposing to consider 93 of the total amendment of the Puziyczuk People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:56:19]] For 243 Decision taken. The amendment is fully accounted for. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Who's it gonna be? Nina Petrovna. Three corrections, two corrections: one from Nina Petrovna, one from. And, dear fellows, because of these two amendments, we vote. Please don't leave because this will be an amendment to the confirmation. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, 193 revisions. The amendment suggests, by the way, that some amendments to the Development and State Support Act of small and medium -sized enterprises should be excluded from the rule that prohibits the granting of State aid to these entities if the main activity of these entities is to rent immovable property. Please tell us why in this Law and on the account of whom or what do you want to reassert State support for those who do not even have a political right to do so? These are all our shopping centers, Ocean Plaza, and I don't know what goullers and all that. Are you still going to help them? It's just that I think they've slipped this amendment into the closet and they want to do it in the hall right now. Please do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u122	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u123	The committee supports this amendment and suggests leaving it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 193 amendments to the authorship of National Deputy Shulak, are taken into account by the committee, while National Deputy Eugene demands that it be submitted for confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation of 193 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:58:30.]] For 207 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment is Arthur Volodymyrovich. And then we go to voting for the law as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, you know, we've all voted to allocate over 300 billion dollars to our security and defence sector. We understand that. If anyone doesn't know, I'll say that international aid can't be used to support the security and defence sectors. That's why only what we gather inside the state can we use to support our army. And now, attention, in this bill, there are directions that I would support and ask everyone to vote in favour in peacetime, but in wartime, every single penny should be directed towards the security and defence sectors at the Armed Forces of Ukraine. So I'm asking for confirmation and not to support the 130 amendment that says medical equipment. Well, listen, we all remember all these schemes, we remember how it was. Once again, in peacetime, no questions, but now war, and in war, please don't do that. It's better to put 20 billion into the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u126	130th, it's partially accounted for. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u127	The committee supports this amendment, so I suggest you leave it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 130th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of the Road, is part of the committee. Such a proposal is made by the committee for confirmation by the national deputy of Herasimov. The committee requests that the decision be left to the committee in force, i.e. to leave the amendment partially to be taken into account. I'm putting Arthur Gerasimov to the vote. Please vote. [[12:00:29]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the establishment of a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression (registration No. 8027). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:01:16]] For 251 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, Alexander Sergiyovich, please, his debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u129	Colleagues, we're back to questioning. No, you don't have to vote, just read. 15 parliamentary requests were made, 1 of them to the Cabinet of Ministers, 12 to the heads of other state authorities and local authorities, 2 to the directors of enterprises, institutions, organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of subordination, their forms of ownership. Dmitry Razumkov's request to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine for the listing of persons who have been granted a diplomatic passport. Dmitry Razumkova to the Head of the Shareholders' Board, Naftogaz Ukraine National Shareholder Company, for the purchase of seven armoured outposts totalling 950,000 euros. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information on how to manage the budget of the Umman City Territorial Society during January-September 2022. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head on the provision of information and copies of documents regarding the activities of officials of the Umman City Council during January and September 2022. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information and copies of decisions taken by the Umman City Council during the 34 (in turn) and 36 sessions of the Umman City Council VIII. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Cherka District Military Administration for the provision of information and copies of documents relating to the administration by the Cerkas District Administration of the public budget subsidy to local budgets for the financial security of construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads of general use of local value, streets and roads of municipal property in the settlements during 2021. Anton Yatzenk to the head of the Cerka District Military Administration for information on the activities of the Mobilization Department of the Cerka District State Administration. Anton Yatzenka to the Attorney General to provide information on the possible detention of an official or official of the Cherka District State Administration when receiving an improper benefit. Dmitry Mikishi to Jurinsk village head of the Jmerinsky district of Winnicke district for information on the situation in the Jurinsk rural community. Anton Yatzenka, under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to provide information on the possible detention of an official or official of the Church State Administration when receiving an improper benefit. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for providing information on the scope of the tourist congregation paid in the territory of the Umman City District Society of the Cherkas region during January-June 2022. Anton Yatzenka to the Head of the National Police for the Personal Control of Criminal Investigation No. 1202225000000197 of July 29, 2022, on the basis of the criminal offence provided for in article 201-2 of the Criminal, Penal, Code of Ukraine. Bogdan Torochtiya to the State Company Ukrespecexport for shipping across the state border of Ukraine to co-workers of the State Company Ukrespecexport. Bogdan Torochti to the head of the Kyiv District Military Administration of the Kyiv Region on matters related to the activities of the Kyiv Region’s Regional Military Administration. Anton Yatzenka to the Attorney General for the personal control of the conduct of criminal investigation in Criminal Investigation No. 1202225000000197 of July 29, 22, according to the criminal offence provided for in article 201-2 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The questions are over.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-19-m0.u130	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. Together to victory! And the glory of Ukraine!
