ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. And I remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold it together until the end of the registration. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:03:24]] There are 182 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevni, political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Sergio Stépi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u3	Please, National Deputy Sergei Stepa.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u4	Good afternoon, fellow believers, distinguished viewers! Stepa Sergei, 77th District, Zaporozhye. On January 22, Ukraine celebrated a double festival. It wasn't just the 103rd anniversary of the Zluta Act, which created the only assembly of Ukraine, it was the day that the multi-year long-lived monument of corruption turned into cities that could move cars. The need to build additional highways across the island of Hortica in Zaporozhye began in Soviet times. In 2000, project-based documentation was prepared, and on August 30, 2004, work was started directly, and unfortunately, for many years, work was not meant to be completed. Construction was periodically stopped and then resumed. The cost of the project has increased on a case-by-case basis, and, unfortunately, no one has noticed. Many governments and even a few presidents promised to build bridge crossings and traditionally did not keep their word. In 2019, when Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski became President of Ukraine, he made it clear that the narrow bridges should be built in the shortest possible terms. According to his initiative, this infrastructure object was added to the Grand Building program. Soon, in 2020, a deal was signed with the Turkish company Onur, which undertook to complete the construction of bridge crossings for four years. As early as December 24, 2020, the Balkan Bridge opened, the first of a series of bridge crossings, and on January 22, 2022, a bridge opened up. To complete the construction work, Ukraine’s Independence Day is well ahead of the deal. Within a few days, the depositors experienced very noticeable changes. Where there have been constant congestion, there are no more or they are barely visible. The inhabitants of the sleeping areas of the city, who are heading to the center of Zaporozhye across the island of Hortica, say that the road now takes 20 minutes, and it has taken much longer (about an hour and a half, two), all because of congestion. But it's important not only for the guards, but it's also important for the Chinese, the Poltavians, the Dwarves, who are going to Zaporozhye, who want to visit the island of Hortica, who just want to go through our city in transit, and now they can do it very quickly. I want to thank President Vladimir Alexander Zelenski for this first, because if it wasn't for his political will, we don't know when these bridge crossings would have been completed and whether they would have been completed at all. Many thanks to all the experts who spent almost 24 hours a day, in the heat and in the cold, doing their job. And of course, I want to thank all taxpayers, who have made it possible to implement such an important infrastructure project. I mean, we're not just building bridge crossings, not just roads, schools and gardens -- we're building the infrastructure of the future that will make the next generation's life comfortable and happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u5	The word is given to the national deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u6	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there was an unfortunate event yesterday, I would say, a disgraceful event under the walls of the Supreme Council. On that side of the street, there were no aunts, there were ordinary Ukrainian citizens, there were FOPs, tax payers, there were people who kept us with you, who kept the law enforcement authorities. My colleagues, yesterday everything ended tragically, and it ended tragically for them: dozens of beaten people, 74 people detained. Only in the evening did lawyers allow them. Two women, colleagues, with broken limbs, were plastered. Two were missing (colleagues, homeless) and one was beaten in such a way that it was not clear whether he survived or not today. Colleagues, the leadership of the FOPs for today's "still" article 296, part four, is a mass-disturbing organization. This article, which historically, colleagues, has been applied historically in Ukraine only three times. I only remember that when I was Minister of the Ministry of Public Affairs, we understand where he is now. The country has changed for a long time, but the approach to people who today simply demand justice to their families has not changed. And here I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council. We spent the night in contact with the Ministry of Internal Affairs to find out what happened to the people. Colleagues, so we ask you to close all criminal cases that are politically motivated. The second is to allow lawyers, and the third is to adopt the FOP law that they demand, it will be fair. Colleagues, we also ask you to answer that with this person, who is with a man who has been beaten and cannot be found. Let's find her together, colleagues. Four. Please invite the management of the IMF and the management of the FOP directly to the Head of the Supreme Council to find out why the fighting took place, why the IMF began to use force against the peaceful citizens of Ukraine. Colleagues, please release all detainees, and this will be fair, this will be a fair answer to the Ukrainian Parliament, the Parliament, which represents the citizens and people of Ukraine. You and I are representatives of those people who were there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u7	Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich. Yes, indeed, you and I were in a relationship. I thank you, too, for your carefree position. Stan. The information I have now: all the people who were detained yesterday are released; the incident that took place has not led to the fact that I was informed, to the tragic consequences. But I still ask the Minister of Internal Affairs to explain this question somehow so that it is official information. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy Joofe Yuliu Yakovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u9	Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u10	Honorable Predestination, National Deputies! Last week, not only in Ukraine, there was a series of cheap series by President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine. The series was attended by Anthony Blinken, Secretary of State of the United States. We've all seen how the Western Court System is being reformed: the authorities have turned it into a settlement tool with their real opponents, and I'm stressing, real opponents. The so - called coal case is fabricated in the Office of the President and the RNB showed that there is no just, independent judiciary in Ukraine, and that Ukraine is under foreign administration. That is why Victor Medvedchuk, the leader of the real opposition, who offered an alternative route to Ukraine’s development, has been under house arrest for more than 10 months. And the fifth president, who placed Ukraine under foreign administration, is released under personal obligation, judging, not by law, but by the direction of Dejrdep, as Mr. Blinken will say. And this is because Victor Medvedchuk did not flee the country, he did not do the show, but with honor and dignity advocated his innocence in court. What is happening now is "The Opposition Platform for Life" is nothing more than a political settlement. In his actions, the president of Ukraine showed that he alone considered Victor Medvedchuk to be his true opponent, who feared fire. Because if President Zelensky acted in the interests of Ukraine and took advantage of the agreements reached by Victor Medvedchuk, Ukraine today would have no gas of 73,000 dollars per thousand cubic metres, but 15 times less, Ukraine would have a strong economy and would have a decent life for Ukrainian citizens, wages, pensions. Most importantly, if President Zelensky had taken advantage of Medvedchuk's peace plan, Ukraine would have returned to Donbas and Donbas would have returned to Ukraine. But this authority, like its predecessors, does not need a peaceful and strong Ukraine. That is why the SBU and the Office of the Attorney General, at the criminal direction of President Zelensky, continue the extrajudicial prosecution and political persecution of Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedczuk. The charges of terrorism, state betrayal, so-called coal case, are based solely on films mounted by Lieutenant Bakanov and "slices" by Attorney General Vendiktov. There was no evidence of any involvement, no evidence, and no evidence. That's why our political power, "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires the authorities to stop the political persecution of Victor Medvedchuk. Victor Medvedchuk is to be here, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out his duties as a national deputy from the Party of the OPCW, which was chosen by the people as a party.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u11	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u12	Good afternoon, Mr. Head. Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today, my presentation on one of the important subjects of our existence is to preserve our authenticity, our cultural acquisition, our identity, our historical and architectural monuments. Last Saturday we celebrated all the Day of the Assembly of Ukraine -- our relationship and our unity. And such an example of unity is also about the salvation of one of the pearls of Lviv, which is the temple of all the saints in the village of Godowice, located 8 kilometers from Lviv, the parishal Roman Catholic temple, a monument to the architecture of the 13th century of Baroque style, which was unfortunately not included by the expert council of the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy to the list of monuments to be restored under the Presidential program of the Great Restoration. And I think it's an unworthy act, and it's the object that we should pay attention to, and, as the great Winston Churchill, who is now quoted by so many well-known politicians as saying, if we're an economist of culture, what are we fighting for? The temple is in a state of emergency and requires immediate conservation and restoration work to preserve the memory of our descendants. Lebanon is a very rich region of cultural heritage, and more than 26 percent of all immovable monuments are located there. The monument to the national significance of the 18th century, and the main sculptures of the 18th century, belonged to the brilliant Galician sculpture of the mid - 18th century, John George Pinsel, and was considered the greatest achievement of the Jewish school of Baroque sculpture. Sadly, the Soviet authorities used monuments as farm buildings or tried to destroy them in general. Yes, a large number of buildings, works of art, sculptures, frescoes, and more were lost. But in 1974, there was actually a disaster, a fire, and as a result, the ceiling with all its writings collapsed. So to draw attention to the preservation of our cultural acquisitions into the walls of the Supreme Council, the works of famous Ukrainian artists, some 18 people, the great gallery, were brought up on the third floor, and I would like to invite everyone to come up and get to know the object. And they're just presenting the culture of our nation around the world. And I invite all of you to take a look at the exhibits. And including the opening of an art exhibition, it's called "Pinzel Inspiration in the Year." I invite you all to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u13	Thank you. Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please. Black lobster Artem, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u14	Artem Cernomoorov, 131 district, the United Wozniesen district, Koblivska and Berezanska community. Good morning, Ukrainians. Good morning, national deputies. We are all united here by being chosen by the Ukrainian people to represent their interests and to be their voice here in Parliament. I pay particular attention to the majority MPs who must decide, and their mission is to solve problems and lobby the interests of their districts in a legitimate way. Each of us, by voting on the laws that we write here, we want these laws to be really followed and to implement positive things in our country's inhabitants. And each of us who goes out to this rostrum rejoices in the hope that we will be heard by all branches of authority. From 2020 to 2021, a series of laws adopted by this Parliament on the ninth call enabled 131 districts to create 700 jobs: the very first shrimp farm in Ukraine and the largest shrimp farm in Europe; the third aggregate of the South Ukrainian Taslic GAES, for which I sincerely thank Catina Petr Borisovich and Energy Minister Herman Valeriyovich. But things aren't going as smoothly as they wanted, we really have problems right now. For example, in the Berezan OTG there is a factory called MEZ, which has found white spots in the legislation today and does not pay taxes to local communities, for which I am sure Law 5600 will correct this error. Koblivian community. Dear colleagues, most of you spend the summer there, it's the pearl of our resort, it's now washing 200 meters of coastline. Just a week ago, I held an advisory meeting with all the local community representatives and local government chains. We've raised a number of problems that concern us, the whole country, and I'd like to say that the primary issue at the moment is the question of gas for jurosibs: 65 bracelets per cubic meter -- that's a very expensive price. The Reformation of Crucifixion. I would also like to point out that it is a postman who is associated with a simple grandmother who is in OTG, and this is her only connection to the world around her. But to conclude, I would like to say the following. All the leaders of the local communities wanted to convey to President Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski the following and to thank him for keeping a cold mind, a brave heart, and a faith in Ukraine. And if we see tricolor in the Woznesen community, we will act decisively and balancedly. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, a faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u16	Please give it to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u17	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u18	Samantha Bobrowski. Dear colleagues, I know some of your factions have had discussions on Monday, but I want society to know. Because last week, when I met with representatives of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, particularly with the territorial defenses, I was impressed. And I have a question: Why did we adopt the National Opposition Act? And do each of you know when it was voted for, what is it about? It's about territorial defense and resistance. And do you remember that under the law, the head of the territorial zone is ODA, and the territorial area is the head of the RDA; and the head of the regional communities is the one who provides the leaders for volunteering? I have a question: what was the job done on January 1st? Do you understand that the responsibility lies not only with the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and where combatants and combatants beat down the thresholds of local self - government and ODA heads, which do not strike the finger against the finger or even allow for today even time to meet the combatants and find places to locate a headquarters? So what kind of protection and willingness are we talking about? Of course, there should be no panic. But I have a question for people who are willing to go to the army tomorrow or today or who did it during January or December. Are your territorial defense battalions ready, or are the territorial defense brigades complete? What are they made of? Were there meetings with the heads of ODA? I have a huge request to every major, every lister who cares about their area: take the head of the ODA, the mayors of the cities, and lead to the Combus or vice versa. What is happening, especially today in the Plains region, is a terrible disgrace to me. The Plain region as one of the Western ones is actually the gates of Western Ukraine. And when it comes to the fact that there's really no place to sit and what to work, I'm very ashamed. I ask and appeal from this rostrum to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration by the end of the week to find a place and place, to stop this disgrace all over Ukraine when the area does not allow the brigade to be located. That's the first one. The other one. The Voice faction registered literally on Monday, and called everyone in for registration, Order 6545. Requesting that this decree be placed in the order of the day this week. That's what this is about. The appeal to Kabmin to give a clear plan, particularly to the national deputies who communicate with their constituents, about what plans should be for a given situation, how ready they are, starting with municipal institutions, businesses, ending with basic educational institutions, to a particular situation, before a scenario or another. And what I want to tell you is that those who worked in the executive branch know very well that Plan "A" and Plan "B" that are behind bars in the cabinets of regular secrecy are very rarely working, and when panic starts, it's unlikely that your scenarios will work. I have a request when we talk about unity, and we literally came back yesterday from the Inter-Parliamentary Council of Ukraine-NATO, let's talk about unity and the enormous support of the Armed Forces, not to hide in the offices, especially the heads of administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u19	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sosi Roman Vasilovich, who is non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Dmitri Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u21	Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u22	Good afternoon, Mr. Head. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I am pleased to welcome all of you to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine. Today, many challenges lie ahead of our nation. The first one is the kind of tension that worries us in the air that surrounds our nation today. Today we must consolidate our efforts, as always, that Parliament should make such a point. We have repeatedly invited, starting last Friday, the President to the walls of the Supreme Council, forgetting the conflicts, putting aside our political ambitions, and speaking out to a man who is willing to unite around us. Sadly, though, this did not happen. I'm ready to invite the President again, and I remind you that without Parliament to run this state, no matter what. The responsibility for this state should be taken by everyone, not in the video, but in response to the promises we made to society. Today we have a lot of challenges: it's a military threat, it's an economic instability, it's an energy security that we're all talking about, and, of course, a social component that confuses our people with you, and we saw it on the street yesterday. The "Smart Policy" union has launched many initiatives, legislative initiatives, the last of them were: an initiative to increase teachers' salaries already this year, not waiting for 23rd; and a second is an increase in salaries for our police officers, and a decrease in the huge wage gap between senior IMF management and the ranks of police. Those who spoke to them on the street understand this problem well: People are walking away, no one will be protected by law in the street tomorrow. People leave schools because they receive such a shameful salary that they cannot provide for themselves or for the people with whom they live, or for children, or for their families. If we lose doctors, we lose the state, because the military, the police, the army, the teachers and the medics are basic things, the basic professions on which our country is built. Please keep this in mind. And, as always, I suggest that there be more intelligent politics in the walls of the Supreme Council, in the Office of the President and, above all, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because what is happening there today is very often like a circus show when the Minister of Energy is speaking first, he says that we have good things, and the next day we have two atomic reactors. It is important to remember this, not to play with pencils. I call on everyone, and "Smart Policy," as always, is ready to join. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u23	The word is given to the People's Deputy Ustinsky Alexandri Yuriyevna, the Voice faction. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” The first rule of preparation is to be prepared for the worst. We don't need to panic, we don't have the right to do this, but the more we don't have to calm down, the more we can't afford to say "it's all going to be okay." We must prepare and act together, starting with Kiev, ending with the smallest communities in our country. If you look at the agenda of the Supreme Council this week, he's naively calm, respectable colleagues, more than that, he's dishonest. Indeed, we have many technical, organizational issues of improving legislation, which in time, but at the time of the threat at the border, this should be reflected in the order of the day and in our daily work here in Kiev. Preparing for the threat already on our border is our job. And this is the best relief for every Ukrainian to do this. With Justice and colleagues from other factions and groups, we've registered a decision, and I thank the initiator, Yuli Klimenko, who has made a number of ideas, and we've worked together on a specific list of steps. And I want to turn to local self-government, to every community in our country. It's our joint effort to take concrete action before February 1st in order for the territorial defenses to receive the necessary resources. This is our business together. And it's very strange when we're looking at areas, in communities, that it's still a problem. We need to inspect all the premises, the safe houses, the potential shelters. We need to allocate extra funds from reserve funds if that's what we need. But this needs to be prepared, dear colleagues. This is specific work, actions, legislation and resource allocation. Thousands of Ukrainians are now reported in territorial defense battalions. The Ministry of Defence and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine are working. And that's true. And that's what allows us to calm down just for a minute, because the next minute, we have to start working. I urge my colleagues to take this decision. I urge my colleagues to take these steps. A missile program, an understanding of which military forces should make purchases from the point of view of resistance in the air. We need to work on it, it needs to be reflected in the order of the day and in our daily work. And I'm calling for local self-government to make it a bit of a meltdown at every meeting of the next sessions in your communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u25	The word is given to Ukraine’s National Vice - Viceroy Grib Victoria Alexandrovni, a nonfractional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the coal situation remains very difficult. You and I voted in the first reading to pay off the miners' debt. I'm now collecting signatures in this room to take to the second reading room. We can't just forget about it. This is the first time. And secondly, we need to give money to miners in order to be able to build new lavas. If that doesn't happen, then, you know, the energy crisis has not been reversed, we see how difficult the energy situation is today. So please come to me, please, and let us sign these letters in order for the leadership of the Supreme Council to bring these bills to the first and second readings that will help us save the energy situation. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u27	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy, the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u28	I give the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u29	Please, Paul Andriovich Bakunec.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainians! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". In view of this difficult, tense situation around the Ukrainian borders, you and I still update the subject again and again, a very important topic of terrorism, because you and I need to remind everyone, especially the mayor of the district, that local self-government, the local councils should conduct training from the terror. In places people need to know what to do and how to do it tomorrow, tomorrow, and the next day. We can turn to the example of the city of Lviv, where the city council has already organized and trained. Such training must take place in every new community, so that the common people are also confident that tomorrow is someone to defend our country. When the enemy brushes his teeth on the borders, our Ukrainian army prepares, he's strong, he's supplied with weapons. And of course, we are absolutely in favour of further financing our military, especially their families. As an example of the legendary 24th Brigade, when boys and girls are not bravely standing for the first month on the eastern borders of our country, their families also need some care where they live, they want to take better care of their infrastructure and better care of their families. It's very, very important. When the enemy is on the verge of, of course, that both our diplomats and you and I are taking a call to international organizations and our partners to bring this subject up and not allow the idea of an aggressor to create a huge panic in the heads of our Ukrainians, which is destroying the economy. In view of this tense situation today, on Wednesday, the 26th of January, Pope Francis declared a day of prayer for peace in Ukraine. The head of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church, the Blessed Most Holy, invites all people of goodwill today to pray together. I invite you, too, despite your beliefs, to pray for peace in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. And before I go to the agenda, I have two statements: one with a break for the performance, and the other with a real break. Let's start with the first break with the replacement for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Petra Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u31	Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainians! For three months, the whole white world has been pounding with alarm over the accumulation of troops on the borders of Ukraine by Moscow. For three months, the whole world is thinking about how to help Ukraine increase its security by sending weapons, by conducting a consolidation of international solidarity, everyone but the Ukrainian authorities is doing it. And we really don't have to panic, we don't have to wonder whether Putin's attack is going to have to be prepared to give a good shot if diplomatic efforts don't stop it. And to do that, we need to answer a few questions. Why do we still have some combat units of only 50 percent and most military personnel do not continue contracts? Why is fuel not yet purchased for Ukrainian armoured equipment? Why have vests and Kevlar helmets not been purchased since 2019? (Hello to the persecutors of General Marchenk's cyborg.) Where are the Ukrainian strategic reserves? What are we to wear, take, feed, and, above all, arm the reserve reserves of the first queue that need to be opened? Why does Zelensky not raise the funds of Ukrainian military personnel? Please tell the Ukrainians, have you had enough of this "why?" And the answer finally came yesterday in an investigation into anti-corruption officials who published shocking data. In 2021, Zelensky conducted tenders for the army, think of it as 10 times less than the amount allocated to the mega-corruption "great theft". And for free, they call it stealing big because they feel the size of their own pockets. So-called big theft is the main business project in Greensky, and it became a tool and its personal enrichment, and unfortunately shadowy financing of green buttons in this Parliament. I stress that this is why the appointment of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is delayed, and we demand that the NABU begin the proceedings immediately. And we demand, Your Honor, to draft Bill 6542, which was supported by all factions of democratic opposition blocked by the Servants. Give the money to the Ukrainian army. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, another statement has been made about a real break. That's why I'm calling it a 30-minute break. We'll meet in the hall at 11 o'clock in the morning. And I ask representatives, let's say, leaders or factions and groups to meet me in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u33	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. I would like to inform you about the outcome of the meeting that took place in the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the meeting addressed the issues of FOPs and the situation. As a result of the meeting, a number of issues related to events that took place yesterday were raised. I've informed my colleague that there's an official opinion on the official website of the National Police, that there's information that 63 people who've been detained, they've already been released, their person installed. In addition, we have spoken, and such a proposal from the faction leaders, the leadership of Parliament, if possible, that information on the National Police website was communicated either by the IMF or by the police within the respective briefing. And we, the people who are always trying to compromise, would ask if we could find time to meet and meet with the representatives of the FOPs to explain the situation that happened yesterday and their criminal legal qualifications. And the proposal that was made by the chairman of the committee, Danil Alexanderovich Hetmantsev, will be presented by the end of the day with an appropriate bill. Right, Danilo Alexanderovich? The relevant bill, after which no fines will be paid by the end of this year by persons who have not established the RROs on condition that they do. This bill will be introduced, I very much hope that it will be supported in the hall. Dear colleagues, this is information based on what we've agreed on. Thank you very much to all the factions leaders for their constructiveism. I think we will continue to demonstrate the same high level of cooperation in Parliament. And now, with your permission, we're moving on to the day-to-day discussion. The list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today, and we are moving on to their consideration. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] By procedure, yes, I'm sorry, we made a deal. Alexander Sergiyovich, please, from the procedure for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, we have now come to the consideration of Bill 5705 and Alternative 5705 on the introduction of electronic tickets on car and city electric transport. I have a proposal to report to the government, a representative of the government when he reports this document, which is important for us to focus on the implementation and implementation of the specific rules of the 1370 Technical Regulation, the European Union Regulation, which is subject to mandatory implementation under the political part of the Association Agreement. So from this point of view, we're wondering: (a) what positions are going to be implemented, once. And the second is about financial and economic justification, because the question of compensation, formulas and so on, we want to see it. I haven't seen it in this bill, and that's an extremely sharp question. So when we present this document, we want to hear these two important things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u35	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. We're about to go over these bills. Dear colleagues, I announce the beginning of Bills 5705 and 5705-1. These are draft laws amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of electronic tickets on road and urban electricity. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. I'm proposing to consider these two bills 5705 and 5705-1 under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:15:53]] For 219 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Vice Minister of Infrastructure of Najima Mustafa Massi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed in Bill 5705 on the introduction of electronic tickets on road and urban transport. The bill provides for amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine to the definition of an electronic ticket as a basis for the conclusion of a passenger and luggage contract, as well as the laws of Ukraine on urban electric transport and on road transport in the modernization of the terms "electronic ticket" and generally "tickets". The Ministry of Infrastructure is empowered by the bill to approve the form and mandatory props and information to be contained in the travel document and electronic travel document. The bill should help us to move away from the form that is now outdated, and the tickets and the electronic tickets, and move on to the proper functioning of the automated cost-of-passage system in both urban and passenger transport. Please support the key bill, because it actually enters into force and allows the introduction of an electronic ticket. With regard to the observations regarding the benefits and the points relating to compensation, including those involved in the fighting, all of these functions will be attributed to the authority of local administrations. This law does not determine the costs of the state budget, i.e. it authorizes local administrations to provide for the issuance of these tickets or for compensation for specific premium categories of passengers. And I'm proposing to support him now in that way. If there are any additions to the functions of the ministry or local self-government, we will support this part. Right now it's just a law that allows you to run this system and an electronic ticket at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak to the author of the alternative bill, Ukrainian National Deputy Platcheva Tetyana Mikhaylovna. Please, Auntie Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u38	Good afternoon. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues of the national MPs, your opinion is offered an alternative to the government draft law. As with the government, the purpose of the alternative bill is to improve the legal regulation of the circulation of electronic tickets in public transport, because the use of electronic tickets is really more convenient and mobile in the use of such transport, and we have seen this during the pandemic. The need to improve existing legislation regulating the circulation and use of electronic tickets in automobile and public electricity was therefore needed. In particular, legislation regulates. legislative regulation requires the issue of the establishment of an electronic ticket, the identification of its mandatory props, and other information that should have such a ticket. It's in the approach to solving this issue, and it's the difference between a government bill and an alternative bill. If a government bill proposes all these issues to be delegated to central authorities, an alternative bill suggests that all these issues are resolved by local self-government authorities, which is in fact in line with the principles of public policy on decentralization. It's also a government bill, as opposed to a government bill. The alternative bill, unlike the government bill, proposes a more comprehensive approach to improving the legal regulation of the use of electronic tickets. In particular, the alternative bill further reinforces the requirement for free provision of discounted categories of citizens with electronic tickets, the requirement for protection of information in an automated billing system, the establishment of a clear distinction between an electronic ticket and a transport card. So, colleagues, I propose that this is the bill that we accept and that we process it professionally for the second reading. Thank you very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u39	The word is given to the head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure to Negulevski Igor Petrovich. Please, Igor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u40	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure at its meeting reviewed the draft legislation and proposed 5705, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to adopt the alternative 5705-1, submitted by the people's deputies, Abramovich I.O. And the others, to reject. The committee has been working on the bill and its conclusions, such as the Mini-Infrastructures and Minfin, supporting Bill 5705 and noting the need for further development 5705-1. Mineconomy and Mincifera report no comments or suggestions. At the same time, a number of comments were made to the Bills. In particular, Miniust commented on project 5705 on the provision of the Ministry of Infrastructure with the authority to establish forms of travel documents; on project 5705-1, on the allocation of local self - government authorities with the approval of the conditions under which the ticket gives the right to transport services, which in turn leads to the granting of broad powers in the area of payment service. GNEU made comments and suggestions to both bills. In particular, Project 5705 of article 910 of the Civil Code essentially provides for the establishment of a general standard for the transport of passengers and luggage by all modes of transport, not by urban electric and automobile transport. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine from the EU noted that the project does not conflict with Ukraine's international legal obligations, but needs to be further developed to take account of the provisions of Directive 2010/40 on the structure and deployment of intellectual transport systems in the field of road transport and to interact with other modes of transport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u41	Thank you, Igor Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I understand, there is a need to discuss this issue. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Mikola Veliczovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u43	Mikola Velichkovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The issue of settling an electronic ticket and its functioning is extremely important. Given that Ukraine is trying to bring its legislation to the European Union's standards, this initiative that we are currently considering with you is extremely relevant. "European Solidarity" will support Bill 5705 in the first reading. But we think we need to work on both the terminology and the issue of cooperation or the introduction of an electronic ticket between the central executive authority that regulates this area and the local self-government authorities. Because it's important for us to have this electronic ticket to help citizens, to create the conditions for transporting them as luggage, and their passage. So I'm talking to my colleagues to support it, and on the committee, I think our Infrastructure Committee is working on it, and we're going to be able to get to second reading a more perfect bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u45	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of "Golos". Clemens Julia, I got it right, didn't I?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u46	Klimenka, yes. Dear colleagues, surely the bill is necessary, he has been on the Supreme Council for two years, he has been on our committee, we have supported him and he has been taken to the Hall. Of course, electronic ticket terminology still needs to be identified and enabled both local councils and nationalally to launch this project. Because actually a successful launch of an electronic ticket is not much, we see that it works partially in Kiev, it works partially in Lviv, but most communities unfortunately don't know how to start an electronic ticket. And unfortunately, a lot of communities and a lot of local authorities and national authorities don't start this ticket even because there's no legislative settlement, but because it's a huge field for corruption. Because we know that there's more than 40 billion illegal money going around in public transport, shadow money is a lot of money that no one wants to give, and that's why an electronic ticket doesn't run at many levels. This is true in the case of the Railroad, and this is true in the case of motor vehicles, and this is also true in the case of routes. In fact, it's long overdue to review the rules of work in the public sector, because those rules and the motivation that exists at the moment, it doesn't motivate carriers to invest money in quality buses, nice buses, routes and transport, and it doesn't also motivate passengers to use these services, because these services, unfortunately, are the worse they look. So I urge my colleague, we will certainly support this bill in the first reading. It has a lot of legal issues, it needs to be worked out, but I urge our colleagues to also raise the agenda and consider a more complex project on public transport, which is already registered and located, which is co-authored by me, in order to bring and bring a large part of public transport out of the shadows. The bill is supported, refined and amended for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u47	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u48	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you very much to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u49	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. In what language will you surprise us today? Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Head. I can't help but react to your lines. I would like to take this opportunity to warn you that tomorrow I will be able to arrange for the draft legislation of the translator of Russian, English and Hungarian in accordance with article 2, article 6, of the Rules of Procedure. I mean, in a day's time, I'm warning you. Thank you for your observation, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I am, frankly, not the youngest MP in this calling, yes, both by age and by work experience. Please tell me, we have nothing more important than to consider improving the purchase of electronic tickets? Today, there's a problem with the purchase of electronic tickets, and you want to speed up this procedure to get to the country faster? I don't understand you. Look what's going on. The whole country is thinking: there is life on Mars or there is no life on Mars — science is unknown. There will be a war or there will be no war. Attack or not attack? Some say that the German Embassy is beginning to evacuate members of the families of diplomats. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine says, "All right, nice Marquis, well, there's a horse out there somewhere." So please, Your Honor, let's be responsible. We have a society waiting for us to answer about the tension that the whole world is talking about and talking about in Ukraine. True, some of us say we're okay, others say we're going to be attacked tomorrow. People are already joking: Let us declare war and surrender to the prisoners so that this nightmare will be over soon. Today, only the Minsk Accords will guarantee peace in our country. That's something to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u51	The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Bondarevo Kostin Anatoliyovich, a faction of the political party of the "Fatherland" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u52	Constantine Bondarev, Fatherland. Dear friends, I agree with the previous statement that there are really many problems in the country today. And where you don't go, the first question is, is there going to be a war or is there going to be a war? I'm fully aware that you're always answering phone calls from your communities on this very subject. We are considering a very important bill that applies to all spheres of life to ensure the activities of the territorial communities. In fact, perhaps the question is that there are no money - budget benefits today because there is no use of an electronic ticket or other means of control. Today, there are many questions on the line. So it's from the most important point of view today that we gather and work with an electronic ticket. While returning to an electronic ticket, you still need to identify yourself with the government: are we talking about decentralization or collecting powers and functions in the government? Today it's really a question, since the 17th year, they've been trying to introduce an automated payment system in urban passenger transport. In practice, there is ambiguity in the application of law because an electronic ticket is confused with a material medium. "Paternality" will not accept the bill and vote for it, 5705, as will the alternative, because this initiative has a number of substantive observations and does not solve the main problems. First of all, article 910 of the Ukrainian Civil Code provides for the establishment of a general standard for the transport of passengers by all modes of transport, not just urban electric and motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u53	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Gorenyuk, faction of "Serve of the People". Please. After that, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, and we are moving to the vote, so I will ask the national deputies to take their seats. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u54	Congratulations, dear colleagues. Gorenouk Alexander, "Slut of the People" faction, center of Clothing. Bill 5705 will create conditions for even more Ukrainian citizens to use public transport and use an electronic ticket. The popularization of public transport in Ukraine will allow a large number of cars to be removed from our Ukrainian roads, and this will, in turn, allow for the reduction of congestion in Ukrainian cities. Think about these numbers. According to the international organization TomTom Odessa holds 11th place in the global anti-registration of congestion, Kiev – number 7, Harkow – number 13 in the anti-registration. It is particularly important to introduce an electronic ticket right during the pandemic period, which will minimize the number of contacts and ensure a social distance. Let's vote 5705 on the first reading and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. And then we move on to the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u56	Dear Ukrainians, why should this bill be supported? Because the evil tongues say that the shadow circle in passenger transport is 40 billion dollars. Here we have to look for money in the budget, not with the FOPs. Is it a basic bill or an alternative? I'd, to be honest, support an alternative. If local authorities are responsible for the benefits, they should also determine the form and content of these electronic tickets. But that's a rhetorical question. It would be possible not to give this commission to the Mini Infrastructure if you wanted to, but to list the mandatory requirements in the law and to prescribe it in a second reading. Our parliamentary group is voting in favour and calling for an alternative bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of electronic tickets on road and urban electricity (project registration number 5705). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:34:14]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill. These are also two bills (registration number 6070 and 6070-1). This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on technical regulation in the field of agri-industrial complex and machinery for agri-industrial complex. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:34:58]] For 234 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the author of the first law, Ukrainian national deputy Litwinenko Sergio Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! Litvinenko Sergey Anatoliyovich, 156th District, Ravensk Region The bill is designed to improve the activities of subjects in the agri-industrial engineering system. To date, the current structure, the number of employees of the regional authorities of the State Food Service, does not allow full registration and accounting of technical equipment in the APC area to be completed in a timely manner. It is not possible to solve this problem without additional budget expenditure and an increase in the number of employees involved in the process. It is proposed that legal and natural persons entrepreneurs be empowered to carry out such a procedure. This will significantly expand the registration service network and significantly improve the quality of such services. The bill also provides for a solution to the organization of work related to the registration of tractors, highways, agricultural agricultural vehicles, and agricultural equipment. He also deals with the issue of the certification of a tractor driver. It regulates the functioning and activities of the evaluation bodies according to technical regulations, the approval of the type of agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers, variable trailers, systems, components, and individual nodes. The bill aims to improve the system of relations between executive authorities, technical control enterprises, contracting entities, owners of technical equipment, and their relationship with legal, physical, and business entities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u59	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy of Black Sea Oleg Artemovich, please the author of the alternative bill. Artem Olegovich, an alternative bill, please introduce it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u60	The honourable national deputies, the honourable colleagues, here are represented, in principle, all the national MPs who are involved and have an agricultural sector in the districts, and in most districts this is basically the agricultural business that they represent. This bill allows you to correct the inequality of registration not only of technology, but also of forestry technology that is currently in stagnation. And it's the Mine Economics that are now the functions that need to be continued. This is a technical bill that allows us to register and use technology in our fields. So I would like to support this bill, which is decided by the agrarian committee as the main one, and to enable our agrarians to acquire and register in future years with technology to improve harvesting and, in principle, improve the yield of our lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the floor of the Vice-President of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Halimon Pavel Vitaliyovich. Please, Paul Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Agrarian and Land Policy Committee at its last meeting on November 10, 2021, discussed the need for the adoption of Law 6070 and 6070-1. The bill, registration number 6070, proposes to settle issues in the field of legal relations related to the implementation of the technical regulation functions of the APC. In particular: the issue of the registration of agricultural techniques and other technological mechanisms, the issuance of tractor and machine certificates, and the regulation of the functioning of conformity assessment bodies, since there are currently no entities authorized to assess compliance with technical regulations, technical passports, and the type of agricultural equipment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, has commented on the bill and the approach to changing the legal regulation mechanism of the sector. At the same time, the Bill of Registration No. 6070-1, which was submitted by the National Deputy of Blackwater Artem Olegovich, provides for a solution to the operational issues of conformity assessment of technical regulations, approval of the type of agricultural technology that will ensure the unblocking of the activities of conformity assessment bodies and their full functioning. The project does not change the procedure for the registration of equipment, the issuing of tractor licences, the driver and other legal relations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a separate comment to Bill 6070-1, which can be removed and further elaborated before the second reading of the bill. So, Your Honor, please support Bill 6070-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please. The word is given to National Deputy Mikhailuk Galini Alexiyevni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Easy, I'm sorry. Galina Olegnowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Słomczuk Sergiya.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u65	National Deputy Solomczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u66	Hello! Thank you for your word, colleagues. The bill is very important, but I think it's my belief that such certificates of conformity with agricultural technology should be abolished at all. Because when agrarians buy John Deere, or CLAAS, or any other technique, it's not clear why he has to pay extra money and argue somewhere in Ukraine that it's John Deere and CLAAS, as if it's a corrupt scheme. Between the first and the second readings, we're going to apply for the revisions to cancel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u67	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u68	Please pass on the word Klimenko Julia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u69	Julia Leonidina Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u70	Klimenko. I would like to say that, of course, first of all, I really support my colleagues' words that, recently, more than a year ago, they've actually blocked out certification and issued agricultural documents. But this law, which is proposed, only solves part of the issue. Another part of the questions should also be made and changed between the first and the second readings. This is the first conformity assessment if agricultural technology is produced, for example, in countries of the European Union. Why review it again, evaluate it if it is especially new, and provide a large number of documents to obtain a certificate, and drive around your own city, for example? So this whole procedure, I agree with my previous colleague, is very, very complicated and leads to huge corruption risks. So I urge my colleagues to correct this at both the level of legislation and at the level of the regulations governing the assembly, the submission, the number of documents, and the number of days to be considered. Because right now, for example, a peasant with 20 hundred who bought himself a small tractor needs to go to the district center or the center of OTG for 100 to 200 kilometers to get some paper that he doesn't really need, in a large way, because it's moving exclusively along the perimeter of his garden, garden or field. So I encourage my colleagues to approach this problem in a complex way because we have a large agricultural sector and we have a lot of farmers and entrepreneurs, and they ask us to make this process easier and not turn it into another corruption clock. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u71	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u72	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to give my word to my colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u73	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor Yuri Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the subject raised by the authors of this bill is much deeper. Because it's not only about the technical regulation functions of the agro-industry complex, especially in engineering, but there has to be a deeper question. I'm going to give you an example so that you don't overlap with the previous speakers who said enough on this subject, which is the difference between our views, for example, the party and yours. Because the concept of government regulation in the field of agricultural machinery must be completely different from what is being proposed now. Why don't you look at the fundamentals of the sector structure, such as agriculture engineering, about stimulating it inside the country? Why is there no change, for example, within the framework of the basic law of the Tax Code and the Customs Code on fiscal preferences for the production of the technology within the country? These are fundamental things, given the proportion of GDP, agriculture in the country's GDP structure and the proportion in the country's export structure. This time. The other one. Relevant changes to the Budget Code and appropriate support funds for agricultural machinery in Ukraine. Why do I focus on machine construction? Because during the 11 months of this year, we had a total increase of 8 percent, but last year’s downturn was 19 percent. So 8 is not going to be equal to the negative 19 that is. It's actually stopped by the branch. So from this point of view, here's the question of lending that we see with the interest rates that go up from 6 to 10 percent. There must be a comprehensive document and a law to stimulate machine building in Ukraine, not certain things that relate to certification in this area. So we're not going to support this bill as one that fundamentally does not stimulate the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u75	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Abdullah Alexander Rafkatovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u76	Request to pass on the word to Ichchenk Wadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u77	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u78	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill actually implements European Union legislation into Ukrainian legislation. There are clear requirements for the registration of certain products in Ukraine, there are clear requirements for both the European Union and us. There has been a situation that the State Service, DPSS, has been blocking the registration of the appropriate machinery to date. So, of course, you have to adopt an appropriate law that is more complex. More complex is the 6070-1 that is needed today. I would also like to remind you that under the Association Agreement with the European Union we actually recognise certificates and acknowledge them. Well, we still need to adopt the relevant legislation, we recognize the certificates and the technical regulations that are in the European Union. Therefore, there will be no problems with imported technology. At the same time, what I'm saying is that we've put in place a compensation program, a partial cost-recovery program for the purchase of agricultural appliances. It was proposed back in 2017, last year we expanded this program, we even extended it to complete Ukrainian production. So this is the right thing to do. But at the same time, colleagues, I want to remind you of the adequacy. We have Russian troops on the border today. We today need to have the territorial authorities in combat readiness, in fact, for our defenses. And we've got to be able to adjust adequately to the order of the day. Believe me, hundreds of laws await our implementation under European legislation, but to date we need to apply adequately to those laws that the Supreme Council is to consider in connection with Russian aggression. And this bill, "Tier One," we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the speech of the National Deputy of Ukraine Gerasimov, then Batenko. Yeah? I'm sorry, everything, I get it. It's gonna be a labazuk, right? Labazuk, and then we go to the vote. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Then Sergey Petrovich Labazük, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading, the alternative 6070-1. Why? Because, from our point of view, he will really let the problems that have arisen in the field of conformity assessments settle, and he will restore the possibility of introducing new tractor models into circulation in the Ukraine market. I'd like to inform you more that it's not just, let's say, a call from Ukrainian manufacturers, it's also from our colleagues in Germany, it's also a call from the American Chamber of Commerce and Industry, it's a call from the Association of Equipment Manufacturers, which brings together over a thousand North American manufacturers and suppliers of technology, from others. So there is a real problem, it needs to be solved. As for me, I would vote today and in general, but really in this bill there are a number of points that need to be completed in the second reading. And finally, at the same time, we call on the Supreme Council Hall and Management to put an urgent bill to the vote on allocating the army's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u81	The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Labazyuk Sergey Petrovich. After that, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. And then we go to the vote. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, these bills have both been called upon to solve the problem of the registration of the agricultural technology that has emerged today. Why did this particular problem arise? After the adoption of the so - called technical regulations of the Mineconomy Act, it was necessary to abolish the current system of evaluation. What do we have today? Agriculture, when purchasing agricultural technology, cannot register it, so they cannot import it into Ukraine, and they cannot use it. This has a negative effect today on the development of our agro-industrial complex. The two bills that we've considered on the committee, 6070 and 6070-1, are both really similar. But the first bill, it's extremely complicated in part. It changes both the degree of technology and the order of accreditation of inspectors, and so on. So we see the risks that this bill won't be able to quickly work and produce a result. That's why the committee and the group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Then we vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Our group will be supporting an alternative bill, one that supported a professional agrarian committee. In fact, today’s difficult situation has arisen in the country with the registration of agricultural technology, in fact it is blocked. And that's why, even though it's technical, it solves a lot of problems. Because we've been approached by practically all the associations on this issue, the agrarians are coming from all over the county that this is a matter that needs to be addressed urgently. So we're voting in the first reading for an alternative bill, and we're calling on our colleagues to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u85	Thank you, Oleg Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we've finished discussing these bills. Let's move on to making a decision. I would like to propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on technical regulation in the field of agri-industrial complex and machinery for an agri-industrial complex ( bill No. 6070-1). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[11:53:09]] For 277 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. There's only seven minutes left, so let's get to the next question, so let's move on. The next question is Bill 3667, which is also the first reading. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to promote responsible parenthood. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:53:52]] For 227 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Lebedtsov Boris Borisovich. Please, Boris Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u86	Good afternoon, Your Honor Chairman. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Your attention is given to the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to promote responsible parenthood. The draft law is designed to implement the National Strategy for Human Rights in order to legally improve the protection of the right of every child to parental education and care for their parents by establishing responsible attitudes. The social transformations of the last decade in Ukraine have exacerbated negative trends, such as the decline in the number of registered marriages, the increase in the overall divorce rate, the decline in birth rates, the gradual increase in the number of single - parent families (since 2014 every fifth child is raised out of wedlock). In addition, some 10,000 children are left without parental care each year, especially due to improper parental responsibilities — alcohol, drugs, child abuse, and other family problems. Thus, the draft law is designed for such results. Parents will be interested in deciding together which of these children will be living with, how to share in parenting, how to deal with learning, how to treat children, and how to deal with child alimony. Newborn children left without parental care will be provided with family care, social security through improved birth registration if parenthood/motherhood is not established or in the event of the death of their parents. Temporary parenting of a child by others allows them to determine the range of credentials that will ensure the best interests of the child. Parents will be obliged to support their teenage and underage children who have given birth. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u87	Thank you. I invite a co-reporter, the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Humanities and Information Policy, Tetjan Vasilovna Scripka. Please, Aunty Vasilyvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered Bill 3667 at its meeting on November 9, 2021. As noted earlier, the bill aims to improve the protection system of each child’s rights to parental care and parental care by establishing responsible attitudes toward parenthood. Creating safe family conditions for raising children, increasing the responsibility of parents for raising children, should be a guarantee of increasing orphans, increasing the number of single - parent families, and homelessness of children. At the same time, the committee is aware that Bill 3667 needs substantial work, particularly on the harmonization of its standards with the Civil and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. There is also a need to clarify the status of legal persons who will be able to transfer the child to temporary custody. The main scientific and expert office also made a number of comments to the bill that could be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3667 to adopt the bill on the basis of its further elaboration, taking into account part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u89	Thank you, Aunt Vasilyvna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? About responsible parenthood. You don't? Dear colleagues, look, if there is, we'll just be signing up right now, and we'll talk about it after the break. All right, let's do it, guys, let's do it. Please sign up: two in, two in. But we'll start the discussion after the break. Yes, there was a brief recording, but we'll have a discussion after the break. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u90	Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues. Break's over. I'm sorry, because we've continued our consultations with faction leaders and groups, and the information they need will prove it to you. We are continuing our consideration of matters of order of the day, dear colleagues. We're in the middle of a discussion. I invite you to the words of the Ukrainian National Deputy Labo Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u91	Good afternoon, Michael Laba, Carpathia, 70th district. In general, this bill can be supported on the basis. We really need to work out some things here. I would like to point out that social change over the past ten years (war in the East, economic crisis) has caused a significant decline in the social development of individual families, a child. All of this has reduced the rate of marriage, reduced birth rates, increased single - parent families, and much attention needs to be paid to underage and underage births. In this case, family disputes increased, divorces increased, and families became more disadvantaged. And it's important not to go beyond the legal limits of civil-law relations. If the bill does provide for notarial action on the definition of which the child remains, then I ask here whether the standards of other countries are taken into account, there may be such examples, but in Ukraine this needs to be worked out in law and law. I would also ask the Ministry of Social Policy to address today's challenges of adopting children who are adopted into a single data bank, which is currently not working effectively enough. There's a problem with that, please in the near future. There are references that fit me as a national MP, and many families who want to adopt. At present, these processes are slowing down, slowing down because of the inadequacy of certain standards that are not working. Please pay extra attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u92	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Tchaikovsky Ivan Adamovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u93	Please pass the word to your colleague, Annie Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u94	Anna Constantine's Speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the bill is a powerful example of a good idea being formulated in such a way that it cannot be voted for. And my colleagues and I talked a lot. You know, it really needs to be returned to work because it contains a number of norms that even conflict with the UN International Convention on the Rights of the Child. And so in any case, if it's going to be voted now, it needs to be further developed into second reading, and it needs to eliminate all of the flaws that exist. The bill also runs counter to many of the rules of civil law and family law. It's equally unacceptable. And I'd like to say, the Ministry of Social Policy, you know, if you really want to help children, you're going to have to make some changes to Decree 587 from 01.06. In 2020. Since I, for example, visited disadvantaged families at New Year’s festivals, I tell you, there are many families, for example, only in Mironyovka and Boguslav there are over 600, which are inconvenient, but there is nothing the social services center can do. There's a lot of horror, there's kids living in poverty, there's kids being beaten, there's kids being bullied, there's parents being drugged, there's alcoholics, and there's nothing the state can do, because they need their parents to officially give them permission to take these kids away or help them. They have to do medical examinations themselves, and they have to provide a bunch of help so that these children can be taken away. The same is true of adoption problems. Similarly, there are many problems with homes of family type that are unfortunately not solved by Minsoc himself. So let's start with ourselves first, and we're good initiatives always in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u96	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Burmić Anatoly Pavlovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Head, please give my word to my colleague, Mr. Ducky Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainians, I am forced to take the floor today by a bill that stands in a series of bills that deliberately destroy the family’s institution. We need to understand that everything from the West today goes to us that really destroys all of our traditional values with which we grew up and where our parents, grandparents were raised. What does this bill say today? I'm only going to talk about one point that I really think today needs to be changed. This includes giving a child the right to make decisions at the age of 14 regarding the change in his or her father’s name. At the age of 14, a child under some form of mental or other influence has the opportunity to forget his father’s name. This is what we're doing with you today to make the next step the decision of a 14-year-old child who has a gender: whether it's a man or a woman. And we see it all in the West today. Dear colleagues, you may find it very funny to raise such questions. I see you're having fun, don't you? Let me tell you how I see it. Today, our country is tasked with changing all that unites us today, all that we have today is our faith, our love for the Fatherland. And most of all, all of this is about raising families and children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u99	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Princely Mikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to support this project in its first reading, although there are many observations to it. The deregulation of any procedure in general has always been positive in recent times, but simplifying the procedure for the dissolution of marriage by children, civil registration authorities, not by the court, even in the absence of a notary contract, risks that children's rights may be violated. After all, according to article 109 of the Ukrainian Family Code, the court decides to terminate the marriage if it is established that the claim for the dissolution of the marriage corresponds to the actual will of the wife and husband, and that after the dissolution of the marriage, their personal and property rights, as well as the rights of their children, will not be violated. Thus, the court verifies that the terms agreed upon by the parties to the treaty will indeed protect the rights of children, not merely a formal sign of the dissolution of marriage. Such an approach to the bill does not take into account the provisions of article 111 of the Family Code, according to which the court takes steps to reconcile marriage if this does not conflict with the moral principles of society, and part seven of article 230 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which in the case of the dissolution of marriage, the court may stop the case and appoint a marriage as a means of reconciliation that cannot exceed six months. There is a warning that legal representatives of young or underage parents are obliged to assist them in the exercise of their parental rights and in the exercise of their parental responsibilities. Because civil legislation provides for the acquisition by minors of complete civilian capacity, and they then have no legal representatives. In other words, the real criticism of this project has serious bases and serious bases, and it has to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else wants to speak? I see, Bilozer. Yeah? I'm sorry, I don't have glasses, I don't see very well. Please, National Deputy Bilozer and Klimenko, correct. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Indeed, this bill contains some useful standards, especially with regard to a rule that obliges the court not only to meet the plaintiff’s divorce requirements but also to determine where the child will live and to determine the appointment of alimony. This is to be overcome by such family kidnapping. You know that children today often act with a certain weapon between parents when they divorce. In fact, cases of child abduction by one parent are very common. This will help to overcome the problem. But there are also many standards that make you think, and they are undeniably harmful in general: regarding the change of name and surname at age 14, and according to the father, that parents have the right to pass on to other physical and legal persons under the care of their parents. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna. And then we go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u104	Klimenko. I'd like to dispel the fears and myths that have just been sounded. Dear colleagues, there is an opportunity for a child from the age of 14 to change his name but not his father’s. According to my father, the court was won, as I recall, an international court, which, in fact, led to this appeal. So let's not spread scarecrows. But I want to say the following, honourable colleagues, for this bill. It's a small part of the family policy, which unfortunately we don't see presented by the Ministry of Social Policy. And this should be the basic policy in Ukraine -- family policy, and all the other bills -- and everything else should be brought into family politics. So what we're seeing right now is the number of divorces in 2020 is 119 thousand and the number of marriages is 168. We're going to have a divorce soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal from the committee, a proposal to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to facilitate the formation of responsible parenthood (project registration number 3667). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:51:45]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for the drafting of this bill. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? The proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development project 3667. Please vote. [[12:52:24]] For 226 Decision taken. The bill is returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have the Head of the Court of Auditors present, and we have this request: we are planning to hold a conference of the VI International, which is what we need. Let's maybe vote so they can get ready for this conference. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, a few ritual ballots and then we vote in favour. That is why we are moving on to this issue. So let's start by voting now on question 6344 -- this is the draft Ordinance on the holding of the VI International Joint Conference of the European High Auditing Organization and the Arab Organization of Senior Auditing Authorities -- "Researching the effectiveness of climate change policy and its consequences" in May 2022 in Kiev. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:53:52]] For 291 Decision taken. We are moving on to this issue. So I would like to propose a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day project. Please vote. [[12:54:25]] For 281 Decision taken. I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session on Decree 6344, the draft regulation. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:54:52]] For 283 Decision taken. And I'm going to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified way. [[12:55:15.]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we could vote on this order immediately. Yeah? Dear colleagues, I therefore propose to the committee to adopt a draft regulation on the holding of the VI International Joint Conference of the European High Auditing Organization and the Arab Senior Auditing Organization "Researching the effectiveness of climate change policy and its impact" in Kiev in May 2022 (project 6344 registration number). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:56:06]] For 296 Decision taken. I welcome you, go, prepare for the conference. Thank you for your presence here. Dear colleagues, we're moving on in the daytime. The next question is the second reading of Bill 3881. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Family Code (to increase the minimum amount of alimony applied to a child from other family members and relatives) (second reading). I invite the head of the Subcommittee on Humanities and Information Policy to violin Tetjana Vasilovna for the rostrum. Dear colleagues, are there subjects of the legislative initiative who want to discuss their rights? Are there any who will insist on their work? Without a line we can, yes? No one's going to bet on confirmation. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code (to increase the minimum amount of alimony applied to a child from different family members and relatives) (project registration number 3881). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:57:42]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Next bill. Okay. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you. So we're going into Bill 6273 -- this is the draft of the Law amending Chapter X of the Act on Public Procurement on the negotiation of the procurement procedure -- this is the second reading. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Anatoliyovich Nataluh, to attend the rostrum. Yes, dear fellows! Oh, my God, me. Dmitri Andriyovich, I'm here. I'm sorry, postcovid. Dear colleagues, will those who insist on their amendments be their own? I see, Alexy Yuriovich. Yeah? Is there anyone else? Only Alexi Yuryovich. Please, Alexi Juryovich, what's the correction? Please include Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich. What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u106	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, I really don't want to delay the procedure, but I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to convey my opinion to my colleagues, to the Ukrainians about this law and the risks. Unfortunately, I (for some reason) was not invited as the author of 50 very fundamental amendments to the committee meeting, so unfortunately I have to do it in the hall, with all due respect to the chairman and my colleagues on the committee. I'm going to ask you five minutes to tell you what the situation is about this bill and the risks that can be expected in the event of its passing and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u107	Alexy Yuryovich, I understand correctly, five minutes -- you're shooting 50 of your amendments, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u108	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u109	Please, Alexi Yuriovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u110	My dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that in this very controversial bill, which repeals and allows us to make an unprecedented purchase for our businesses: it's about Ukrhydroenergo, about Energoat and about the GTS operator -- the possibility of huge purchases for tens of billions of dollars without procedures. There's a positive, really, we can jointly control that these purchases are and supply equipment to our Ukrainian businesses. It's a plus, of course, and I'm willing to even compromise. But what are the basic points in this bill? For example, I'm going to explain to the GTS operator what's going on. Well, first of all, does the GTS operator have a government-approved program to reorganize it under new conditions? No, there isn't. That clever plan of action that they want to propose, in fact, offers old powerful equipment to replace it with new powerful equipment. Please tell me, are we ready to spend tens of billions of dollars on this so-called modernization without understanding what GTS we need? I'll remind you that recently your parents adopted the 20/20 program in the 16th year. It was a parade of ignorance, a parade of slogans about how to raise the price of gas and raise the production of gas. As a result, your colleagues (Naftogaz, Kobolev, and Vitrenco) collected 136 billion dollars from the population during this period, and the fall of gas fell, and unfortunately, the same risks apply to the GTS operator. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I pay attention not to tell you that this is such a calm situation, even considering yesterday's assurances by our nominee Mr. President that the gas is fine and that we are fine. Recently, a week ago, the GTS operator approached the government, called on the President's Office to draw attention to his very negative financial situation, the threat of real bankruptcy, the huge debts (ten billion) that are currently falling on it, and the real threat of transit loss. It's absolutely real, it's not the opposition that scares you, it's the GTS operator and Mr. Makgon warns you. I ask you questions, fellow MPs, and the government: do you understand well how to spend the money that the GTS Operator receives for transit from RAO Gazprom so that we don't lose our geopolitical energy security? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the evidence I have in my hands shows that, over the past two years, out of the 109 billion dollars received by the GTS Operator, the left part has been uploaded to the NAC of Naftogaz Ukraine, 70 percent (70 billion) have not been upgraded by the GTS Operator, but have gone to the NAC of Naftogaz Ukraine and dissolved there. And the 27 billion who, at the request of the government, are inexplicably unable to understand who transferred from the GTS Operator to Ukratransgas in September and whose fate is unknown? Now we hear there's no money for gas? Who will find this money? Will you now borrow this money from the state budget again? This is all the result of understanding everything very well, completely reckless criminal travel, which you spent in the 19th year under the tree noise. I'll remind you how I ran through the Kobolev Parliament, then the Prime Minister of Honcharuk, Orgel, sir, my colleague, Herus, and convinced that this is a very powerful deployment, this disunity, this is Europe. There was no Europe. The GTS operator is in grave danger today, we're all in mad energy danger, and he's out of control. So, dear friends, think ten times before voting for this bill, because there are benefits. And I want to say one thing. Even if it's accepted, if we don't regain control of every GTS Operator bracelet, we'll lose gas, we'll lose transit, we'll lose geopolitical security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u111	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Please, the position of the committee, I'd like to ask briefly. Dear reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u112	I wanted to thank the report and apologize to the committee before Alexi Yuriovich. I will find out at the secretariat, which is why no invitation has been sent to participate in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u113	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. This, I think, is a great example of constructiveism, and it really needs to be a possibility. Thank you, Your Honor. Is anyone else going to insist on their amendments? Nobody. So, I take it, there's now going to be people who are going to make adjustments for confirmation. I was approached by a national deputy, Pauluk, who asks for three amendments, and the national deputy, Železniak, two amendments, asks for confirmation. Then it's okay to come. Please, the Pavlük People's Deputy. It's about the 18th, the 22nd and the 46th. Right? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u114	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. What's this bill about? In the main part of this bill, it refers to the targeting of eight giants for the reconstruction of compressor stations exclusively through the "Star"- "Mashproject", where the cost of one giant is about 2 billion dollars, that is to say more than 15 billion dollars -- attention, colleagues! - no tender and no competition. A complete lack of experience in staff, scientific and material and technical bases that can design, build and mount equipment for a compressor station. Even the installation of its own turbines is carried out by foreign specialized organizations, and the "Star" itself – "Mashproject" performs exclusively the head-mounting of its turbines. A shining example is the Yagotin station, which has been unable to complete since 2018. Colleagues, let's support national manufacturers. We're for localization, but it's only part of the project. I urge you to do this honestly and openly through tenders and the healthy competition of national producers. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u115	Thank you. I get it. Are we going to be 18 first? This is the amendment of the people's representative, Kucherenka. He suggests that GAES replace the term "hydroaccumulation power station." At the same time, the national deputy Pauluk asks that the amendment be made for confirmation. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u116	18 amendments to the committee are included. Colleagues, request to keep it in check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've heard the 18th Amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, here's the amendment to replace the abbreviation GAES with the hydroaccumulative power station. It's hard to say what the argument is. It's just that a person asks for an acronym to be deciphered, and the committee has taken this amendment into account. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, dear colleagues, I'm putting 18 amendments to the people's representative, Kucherenka, on confirmation. The committee proposes to confirm and keep it in check. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[13:08:20]] For 267 The amendment remains taken into account by Alexi Yuriovich. The next amendment 22 is also the People's Deputy Kucherenka. It's partially accounted for. Please, Maxim Pavluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u118	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I've had enough for one minute to make three adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u119	So I can't put the rest of the amendments on confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u120	No, you bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u121	Put it in?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the 22nd Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Kucherenka, is included in part. At the same time, the distinguished national deputy Pauluk asks for this amendment to be confirmed. So I'm putting 22 amendments to the committee. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:09:28]] For 270. Decision taken. 22 The amendment remains partially taken into account in the committee’s proposal. And 46 amendments. 46. Amendment of the People’s Deputy Zavávnević. It is also partially counted, but the national deputy Pauluk asks for confirmation. So I'm putting 46 amendments in this edition of the partially counted committee for confirmation. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:10:13]] For the 250. The amendment remains partially taken into account in the Committee’s drafting. Next, two amendments are to be made by the national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich, 9th and 10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u124	Mr. Head, first of all, it's a technical moment. I have a table in my hands for this bill that I got from us in the towers of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council. This table does not match the amended and amended entries with what is currently being published on the site. This week is the second time that documents distributed to members of the public do not match what is on the site. Otherwise, I'd like to withdraw this law, but I have great respect for the authors of the bill, especially my colleague on the committee of Victoria Kinsburg, and also for understanding that we don't have everything in the Supreme Council right now because of the pandemic, let's leave this bill to the table. But then, please follow up on this situation, because we vote for what we don't see in the text. Now, once again, I'm ready to give this table. Now, I'm going to turn on a minute by nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u125	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u126	Okay. Dear colleagues, when this bill was introduced into the hall and, I recall, voted ad hoc, agreed that it applied exclusively to several businesses. And that position was then supported by all the factions' heads. Now, in violation of the 116 article of the Rules, to which you sometimes pay attention, the 9 is similar to the 10th, which actually makes a fairly simple corruption scheme for all purchases. I emphasize, not on a particular case of businesses that you are now deciding by this law, but on all purchases. When you can change in three years or more by 50 percent, that is, half the cost of the project. I'm telling you, this is a scheme that will clean up specific customers or service providers. When you go into a tender, you get a cheap order that no one agrees to, and then you raise the price. This is a breach of both the terms and the 116 articles of the Rules and the logic. So I'm going to ask you to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u127	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u128	Thank you, colleagues. We'd still like to leave the edits to the committee, the way the committee approved them, and support them in the hall, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for the first time. I'm asking the apparatus, you've noticed correctly, unfortunately, that now almost 50 people in the apparatus are with the disease, but I'm asking you to pay attention to what Jaroslav Ivanovich was talking about. Now to the point. Dear colleagues, well, you've heard the committee's position, the committee says it's fair. I don't go into every bill, I don't know. So, dear fellows, I'm making an amendment to the 9th National Deputy of Zavávnevitch. She's listed by the committee, and the committee's asking her to keep her in check. I'll put it to the vote. Ready to vote, 9 amendment? Please vote. [[13:13:49]] For 196 Correction rejected. 10 revisions. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u130	First of all, thank you, colleagues, for the constructive position that we've rejected the 9th amendment. There's 10 revisions, it's similar to the text, it's transferred to the right column. The same thing, once again, they want to do a fairly incomprehensible approach to public purchases that can be used for the purpose of enrichment both by the customer and by the contractor. Please also reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u131	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u132	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll explain a little bit about the logic of both sides. You see, the bill concerns the construction of Dniprovsky GAES, this time. Two — it refers to gas transport facilities. Three -- it's about defense industries. In particular, these are structures such as Dikanka, Dolina, Rososh, Pervomayska, Bogodians, Mašovska DSS and others. So we're talking about this is a very complex type of work. And because you understand the situation in the country well, we may lack, lack some components and details, prices may also change depending on whether they are available, whether they are in deficits, or whether they are being made or not. This is where the rule came from that for three years after the contract was made, it has the right to review the value, because sometimes it depends, unfortunately not on us, it depends on us.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u133	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich, maybe you won't, did you? Are you going to ask for confirmation? Dear colleagues, you have heard the position of Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, you have heard the official position of the committee. That's why 10 amendments to the authorship of the national deputy of the Roxylana Andriyovna Sub-Assemblies are counted by the committee. Jaroslav Ivanovich asks for confirmation. You also heard the committee's position: they're asking you to keep it in check. You heard the argument. So I'm going to make 10 amendments. Please vote. [[13:16:37]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Dear colleagues, and now we can draft a bill as a whole. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement (Registration No. 6273). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:17:32]] For 243 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. For reasons of what? We've already voted. Maybe from the procedure? But if it's just a procedure, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u134	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, we've been with you repeatedly for these two years, which we've voted on, we've repeatedly amended the Public Procurement Act. Maybe we should finally cancel it so that we don't give these expulsions and everything else, and let them go for a walk with their ProZorro? And we're going to keep moving, and we're going to be developing serious economic laws, or we're going to be making changes to the Public Procurement Act, again on public procurement.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u135	Alexander Sergiyovich, with great respect, let's, if by procedure, the procedure provided for by the Rules, and if you are simply of your own accord, the cry of the soul, we are all subject to the law. By procedure. Come on, give me 20 more seconds of procedure, maybe we broke something. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, 20 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, by procedure. 28 questions in order of the day, we've only gone through a fraction. Place a vote on the completion of the agenda, although it is no longer possible after lunch. But for the future, I have a proposition: make a list so that we don't look at it at night, until night, but there were clear questions: 10 is 10, 5 is 5. Not 28 questions for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u137	Thank you very much. But you can see for yourself that no one can predict how the day goes. Since there are factions that exercise their holy right to take a break, there are factions that exercise their holy right to speak, some national deputies often take the procedure and do not speak according to procedures. So let's treat each other with respect. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next issue of Bill 627. Oh, I'm sorry, 6104. 6104 is a draft of the Social and Legal Protection Act for persons who have been found to be deprived of their personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their families (this is second reading). I invite you to the podium of Lubinz-Dmitry Valeriyovich, head of the committee. Dear colleagues, will someone demand to make adjustments? They will be. Marina Ionova. Maria Ionova, yes. Who else is there? Mikhail Mikhailovich, do you have a lot of changes? One, right? Do you have a lady? Three. No one else will make the change to put their own? If not, then let's give Mrs. Mary first, but call the amendment number so I can find her. And then. Please turn it on, Jonah.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u138	Please, Amendment 13, it's been rejected. And I would ask my colleagues to come back and support this amendment. Because according to article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the full powers of the President of Ukraine are fully defined. By this amendment, paragraph 1 of part three of the draft article should be deleted because it establishes additional powers of the Head of State that are not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. So I would still like to go back and consider this amendment so that I do not impose additional powers on the President of Ukraine that are not provided for by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u139	Please take the seat of the committee. This is the 13th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? That this committee should have a representative appointed by the President of Ukraine. We came from the fact that, at the level of law, we prescribed representatives from the central executive authorities, including the President. Our committee finds it perfectly logical to have a representative of the President on this committee, so we rejected this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 13th amendment of the authorship of National Deputy Heratchenko and Ionova was rejected by the committee. At the same time, the author insists on counting. You heard the committee's position: the committee thinks it should still be rejected. So I'm putting 13 amendments. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself and vote. [[13:22:20]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Please, Mrs. Maria, what's your next one?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u142	Amendment 59. Colleagues, we're talking here about the creation of a special ministry, and it's desirable for the Ministry to do this, not some separate commission. But Amendment 59, it says that the issue of the very reason for refusing to recognize the fact that a person is deprived of personal freedom as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine is not settled. So we're just offering a clear list of all these reasons. So we'd like to take these into account. You know, people didn't have this bureaucratic mix, and so that this law would actually be effective and people could quickly get this status, not tell them what other obstacles are in their way. So it was in our amendment that we offered a clear list of these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u143	Thank you. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, with all due respect, this amendment does not conform to the other provisions of this bill. In particular, paragraph 2 of part three of article 3 provides that the commission’s task is to decide whether or not to do so. We've come out, on the contrary, of the fact that a Ukrainian citizen has to give whatever he has in order to confirm the fact that he is personally not free. So even from a legal point of view, what you're proposing is not consistent with the text of the law. Thank you. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 59th Amendment of People’s Deputies Heratchenko and Jonah. She's been rejected by the committee, you've heard the argument. At the same time, the authors insist on counting. I therefore put to the vote 59 amendments to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:43]] For-94 The decision is not taken. And Jonah's final amendment. Then another amendment to the Tsymbaluk -- and we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Please, Mrs. Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u146	Amendment 65. And, Mr. Dmitri, we were just proposing to complete the project with a new article number five, where this list is exactly, but we wanted to expand it. But amendment 65. Here we ask that we continue to apply the rules and regulations on state social guarantees in the order and size set by the Cabinet of Ministers. I mean, don't deny the possibility of defining at the legal level of individual issues. So we think that all these payments have to be established by law, which has been there from one year to more years, and we have to determine that, not by law. Again, in order to avoid differences, we should immediately set up these monetary payments. "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Our team started to develop it, Zelensky re-registered it, but we would like to introduce more effective mechanisms with our rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u147	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u148	Look, we understand logic. But the problem is that there was no one on the budget committee. We went the other way, for example, we supported the proposal of the distinguished national deputy Ahtem Zeitullaiovich Chigoza, where a certain amount has been set for each year. So this sum per year is about 126,000 dollars, that is, no less. We even went on to support the proposal: Even Ukrainian citizens who have been in prison since 2014 will receive such assistance. So in view of that, we rejected your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u149	The position is clear. Why don't we put it down, dear fellows?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u150	Well, I mean, it's not going to get any worse, but it was for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u151	Whatever you say, I can put it. Compromise. Let's not put it in. Thank you very much. Please, and the final amendment to this bill. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, name the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u152	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Amendment number 68. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the head of the committee. We thank you for your effective, quality work in drafting this bill. Thank you for counting part of our lines. 68th refers to what is predicted for persons who have been released since the end of armed aggression, they are provided with social assistance, social services in an order established by the Cabinet of Ministers. We believe that such important things should be established by this bill. We provide a clear list, which, according to the Ukrainian Social Services Act (art. 16), includes more: both social assistance and social institutions, as well as other social services. It would be good if you did consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u153	Mikhail Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. What's the amendment number again, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u154	68.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u155	68. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u156	Thank you for your offer. Again, we share logic, but why did we reject it? Because part one, part one, already provides social services in a general sense, paragraph 32, so a separate point for the provision of other social services has been decided by the committee that it is not appropriate, is already mentioned in the text of the bill. So thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u157	Mikhail Mikhailovich, why don't we put it on? Will we? We won't, will we? Thank you. Thank you so much for understanding. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this wonderful bill, so with your permission, please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we've already got confirmation. Copy that. Thank you so much for understanding. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Social and Legal Protection for Persons Who have been found to be deprived of their personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their families (registration number 6104). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:29:49]] For 288 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. From Sergey Volodymyrovich's procedure, please. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An absolutely important law, Fatherland supported it. But I'm drawing the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council to the fact that the situation for yesterday night was not even a table, a comparative table for the second reading, that the table was 25. I remind you that according to the Rules in 10 days it is necessary to distribute. We have not raised this issue to a vote, understanding the importance of the law, but once again I call the chairman's attention to the fact that it is unacceptable, including by such important laws, not to submit a table on time, not to publish it on the Supreme Council website and continue to vote as we vote. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the heads of the committees, the heads of the committee secretariats and the Supreme Council's apparatus to draw attention to this point. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, absolutely correct. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill is the draft Law on Anti-Doping in Sports (second reading) (registration number 5099). I invite the chairman of the Youth and Sports Committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich, to attend the rostrum. Dear colleagues, would you please tell someone to insist on their comments on this bill? Can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Nestor Ivanovich, do you want? What's the correction? [[B in m in s a l in]] I know Nestor Ivanovich is a fine national MP. Let's vote because you don't have any simple amendments. Okay? Do you have any corrections? Please, Shufrich. Call the repair number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u160	Thank you. Mr. Head, of course, we are all concerned about the situation that is currently taking place around the issue of drug abuse. That's why I think we should now exercise the maximum responsibility and unanimously vote on this law. And as for the amendment that we have just discussed with you, I do not insist that we vote on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u161	Thank you. Thank you very much, this is a wonderful correction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'll put it to a vote. All right, I'll give it to you. I give the final word because it is necessary to read from the conclusion of the committee. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am the only one, thank you for your support and understanding, because since the 4th Olympics started, and this is our vote today for this bill and for the second one, for the anti-doping lab, it's going to be a signal to the entire sports community that Parliament. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is concerned about the issues of honesty in sports and the absence of anti-doping of all these abuses. Hence, the mandatory amendments that we need to make to this bill, which requires of us, are requested by VADA, the following. It is proposed that the draft text be submitted by the committee for adoption on the second reading and in general the following changes. In article 1, paragraph 2, of Part One, insert in the following wording: “Anti-Doping Organization (WADA) or a legal person responsible for the adoption of rules aimed at initiation, implementation and enforcement. "
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u163	All of it. Yeah, we've got one. This amendment is the same. Thank you. Dear colleagues, these amendments are, and I will now put to the vote with technical law, and they will all be brought into line. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt the draft Law on Anti-Doping Activities in Sports (Registration No. 5099) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:35:25]] For 303 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Welcome to the brilliant implementation of the law. Next bill. It's the first reading. I'll propose. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider a bill, a draft law amending article 52 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the activities of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory (project registration number 5640). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[13:36:25]] For 243 Decision taken. I invite the rapporteur - head of the Committee on Youth and Sports, Kozemyakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. You're both from the authors and the committee, so four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u164	Thank you. I don't think I'm going to take any time. So, dear colleagues, I would like to introduce you to a project that deals with the amendment to article 52 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport concerning the activities of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory. Today is a historic event for sport, perhaps if we consider this bill with committee proposals, VADA, the Ministry of Sport and Youth, the Olympic Committee, and accept it not only on the first reading, but also on the whole. Why? Because this first one we've adopted, 5099, about anti-doping policy at all, it won't exist unless we have an anti-doping lab. So we have athletes today who don't have the ability, collective, Olympic and other teams to pass this test in Ukraine, they go to Poland or any other European country to do that. Today we can put an end to this, a dot, and give our athletes an opportunity. What's more, you know, there are great athletes on our committee -- both Jean Belenjuk and Olya Saladuha -- who, on their recommendation, have written this bill. It is very simple: Article 52 is amended. And after that, it will meet the demands of the World Anti-Doping Agency, which is VADA, including agencies in Ukraine, which will make it impossible to impose sanctions on Ukrainian athletes, and will create conditions for the effective functioning of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory. So if we're not there, I haven't been able to run a test in a laboratory abroad, I'm doing it in Ukraine. AWAY does not accept it because it is not certified and does not act by law. I ask you all to make this an opportunity for Ukrainian sports and athletes today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u165	Thank you, Andrey Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I understand there is a need to discuss. Please sign up: two in, two in. Well, there is, they want to talk, so we're talking. But I do have a request, because the committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole and the committee's chairman explained why it was important, express your position, whether you would agree to it. So please sign in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u166	Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u167	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, of course, our parliamentary group will vote in favour. Doping is bad. And one congregation with which I hope our Olympic athletes won't hug, kiss and tell us that they're on equal terms and friendship in sports, they're convinced of it on their own. It's embarrassing. It's a shame when someone uses extra stimulants and someone feeds, and then when they do, they don't get what they deserve -- medals and other rewards. But there are two small remarks. Well, in order to create this anti-doping agency, we need an entire central executive body to create and take this whole decision of the Supreme Council by law? Can't the Cabinet of Ministers, to whom this question comes, do it itself? That's the first one. And the second. The bill proposes to create a commission, a supervisory board composed of five people, one of whom should be a national deputy. Is there nothing to do with the national deputy offered by the profile committee? All the laws on physics and sports are written, all supported? Colleagues, let's not turn into the organ that experts are supposed to be involved in. Well, I don't want to use bad words. Let's go to the second reading, and we're going to go to the top of the board, and we're going to go to the top of the board, and we're going to go to the top of the board, and we're going to go to the top of the board, and we're going to go to the top of the board, and we're going to make a normal quality bill that's going to work tomorrow, not the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u169	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u170	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Jean Belenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u171	Jean-Vensanovic, please, Belenjuk, the "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u172	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, perhaps you don't know, I'll tell you that on February 4th, the Olympic Games will begin in the winter, where our team will be represented by our Olympics. And, of course, as parliamentarians, we need to provide as much as we can and do what we need to make sure that they get there without any problems, including doping. So a bill was drafted on the basis of our committee, along with the Ministry of Youth and Sports. We had a few rounds of battles with the representatives of VADA, and we agreed on everything we needed. So all we have to do is accept it and hurt for our athletes in Beijing. I want both the TV and all the parliamentarians to be hurt for our assembly. And I'm sure we'll show a high class and a high score. Good day to you all! And the Ukrainian sport will prevail! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u173	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Yulia Leonidini, faction of the political party Voice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u174	Please pass the word to Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u175	Roman Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u176	Lozinski Roman, Lvivščina Honorable colleagues, not so many in a year or even decades, are moments that unite the whole country. Yes, the euphoria, everyone gathers, hurts, sets the flags. To be honest, when there was the Summer Olympics, I was looking at the mobile phone of the screenplays, most of the screenings this month -- those were the podiums on which the Ukrainian flag was majored, and that was great. But few know that for these victories, the success of our Olympics, which we highly appreciate and respect, Mrs. Saladuha, Mr. Belenjuk in this room, is a great job. In addition to sporting achievements and heavy sports, the work of various institutions, including doping and anti - doping. And the National Anti-Doping Center lab, it's not in condition for today's VADA accreditation, so today our athletes' tests have to be taken to the countries where this certification is. For Ukraine, Poland is closest, but it is also uncomfortably difficult. There are times, of course, that will require parliamentary control, but today we have no other choice as to how our centres, our sports infrastructure, rise to the level. Ours should be licensed, and the next step, of course, should be to raise all our results. So this bill needs to be implemented, we need to control how it will continue to work, and today we vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u177	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u178	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u179	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u180	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, well, this is really the moment to unite the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because there is nothing brighter, more honest, than sporting opposition. There are also nuances, but most of them are fair fights or competition from teams. And I want to thank our colleagues, the great athletes, but, of course, Mrs. Oleni Solodousi, this is certainly our strong Virastuk. And, of course, Jeanne, thank you, thank you for the gold and the hymn that I had the honour to hear in Tokyo and all of Ukraine applauded you. I cannot help but mention our colleagues with whom I had the great pleasure and privilege of working. This is the Olympic champion Valerius Borzov, the Olympic champion Alexander Volkov, this is certainly Oleg Blochin. And this is certainly the Head of the National Olympic Committee, the Olympic champion, Sergey Nazarovich Bubka, the world recorder. They were all working in this room. And what we're giving to our athletes today, and that's definitely what we need to vote on in general, not go abroad and doping trials, but turn them in here. This is a big step forward. And you know, I might be allowing myself some sentimentality, maybe here you'll abstain, and I want to mention the big words, "Oh, sport! You're the world!".. That's how we were raised. And now, I hope that because of our view of sports, we will once again appreciate the importance of peace in our country and unite in order to demonstrate unity not only in the support of sports but also in the struggle for peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the National Deputy Veliczovich, and then we move on. I see Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, and then we go to the vote. Please, Mikola the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u182	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This bill is extremely important, given that any Olympics are for every nation's prestige, that its athletes perform there and carry its flag, and more when the anthem sounds. For Ukraine, it is very important that this anti-doping laboratory works. Because without this, Ukraine is in a situation where our athletes are in a difficult situation, giving out tests in Ukraine. "European Solidarity" will support this bill because it is the prestige of the state, it is the prestige of our athletes and it is the future of our sport. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u184	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. A very timely bill, I would like to thank his authors, especially my colleague at the "Fatherland" faction, the head of the profiling committee of Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. This bill, it is quite clear, and it predicts that Ukraine will first meet the requirements of VADA (World Anti-Doping Agency). In addition, the effective functioning of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory will be ensured and accredited by VADA. And most importantly, it will ensure that the budget is cost-efficient to carry out appropriate tests for Ukrainian athletes. And I'd like to take this opportunity to wish our Olympics a worthy performance at the upcoming Olympic Games in Beijing. We're waiting for a medal, we want the National Hymn of Ukraine to be played, and we want the Ukrainian sport to be developed. We vote for the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal is on the basis and in general, but as we always did, we vote first on the basis, and then, if there's no objection, we vote in general. Therefore, honourable colleagues, make a proposal to the committee, the first proposal: to adopt a draft Law amending articles 20, 50. Excuse me. Draft Act amending article 52 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Activities of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory (project registration number 5640). First vote on the basis, you get it, right? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:49:44]] For-286 Decision taken. I understand that I can put it all together. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 52 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Activities of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory (project registration number 5640). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:50:30.]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we have 10 minutes to go, shall we? Borders, let's cut the line, shall we? [[B in m in s a l in]] We won't be able to see it. Dear colleagues, is there no objection to considering the boundaries now without discussion? We won't be able to look at it, we have 10 minutes left, dear colleagues. So, dear colleagues, I first propose to move on to the issues of establishing and changing boundaries. Okay? It means projects 6242, 6152, 5858, 6243, 6390, which we can do. I'm making this offer, please support. Vote. [[13:51:52]] For 271 Decision taken. We said we could vote without discussion. Yeah? From the procedure? Nestor Ivanovich, well, time is coming. All right, Nestor Ivanovich, one minute out of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u186	Thank you. Mr. Head, I ask you to consider the proposal of the Opposition faction for Life. We're showing a desire to work in harmony, and these are the issues that you've discussed without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u187	Thank you very much. Does everyone support that position? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I'll make my own decisions. Dear colleagues, I suggest you accept the whole project. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the entire draft Order establishing the boundaries of the city of Berdichev in the region of Žitomir (project registration number 6242). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:53:23]] For 292 Decision taken. The next decision is the draft Decision. I propose to accept the whole draft of the Decree on the Change and Establishment of the Borders of the City of Irsava in the area of Zacarpathia (project registration number 6152). Ready to vote? Please vote [[13:53:58]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the whole draft Order on the Change and Set the Borders of the City of Wüszer of the Donetsk Region (registration number 5858). Ready to vote? Please vote. Please vote. One second 'cause it's not coming. tech can't handle the work of the national MPs. Ready, Rada system? Please vote. [[13:55:09]] For 277 Next. I propose to accept the entire draft Order on the Change and Set the Borders of the City of Nizhin district of Chernigiv district (project registration number 6243). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:55:45.]] For-286 Decision taken. And the final decision is the draft decree. I propose the adoption of the whole draft Order on the Change and Set the Borders of the City of Vinogradov of the Zacarpathian Region (project number 6390). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:56:25]] For-286
ParlaMint-UA_2022-01-26-m0.u188	Decision taken. The factions. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
