ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary meeting, I would like to highlight the need for unwavering compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, please listen carefully. In the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary session, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. The Supreme Council is working in a single plenary session, so today, according to the resolution we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war" and the proposal of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good parliamentary tradition, we will begin work with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 266th day of the full-scale war of the Racist invaders against the Ukrainian state and the entire Ukrainian people. The brave Ukraine and its victorious defense forces have given a firm backing to the aggressor, heroically freeing our inhabited areas from the invaders every day. It's not an enemy-infested hero, Herson. With great excitement and tears of joy in their eyes, the Hersonians receive from the hiding places government flags, which once again rock and warm the soul with the colors of the cloudless sky and the ripe wheat fields. A state-of-the-art terrorist who has been defeated in a field of battle, not willing to admit it, is taking on a treacherous missile terror. Yesterday, 90 rocket attacks were carried out on peaceful Ukrainian cities, along the territory of brotherly Poland, killing innocent citizens of our nations, damaged housing and critical infrastructures in Ukraine. It is evident that Russia carried out massive rocket attacks during the Summit of the Heads of State of the Group of Twenty (G20), on the top of the world, demonstrating its civilized sense of impunity, contempt and total disregard for the universally recognized principles and norms of international law. For the international community now, it should be a priority: the exclusion of Russia from the UN General Assembly and the UN Security Council, from the Twentieth Group and other international organizations. Together, we need to make an effort to curb the aggressor state, its total isolation and the restoration of the force of international law. Regrettably, no day of war is without human sacrifice, without the loss of our soldiers and civilian population. So I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the defenders and protectors, all who gave their lives for the freedom and independence of Ukraine. Everlasting honor and glory to fallen heroes. Let us also honor the memory of all peaceful citizens who died as a result of racist aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Honorable national MPs today celebrate a professional festival for radio, television, and communications workers. Every day we use the results of their work, learning the news, watching and listening to our favorite broadcasts, associating with family and loved ones. In times of war, it is vital to be connected, to receive accurate and up - to - date information to make effective and balanced decisions. So let’s welcome journalists, broadcasters, all electronic media workers, who are filling our information space, as well as radio - phone operators, as well as Internet access. We wish them health, inspiration, and sometimes dangerous work. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies. Igor Volodymyrovich Vasiliev, "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] And also Paul Mikolaiovich Suska, "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] We wish our colleagues good health, new achievements in professional activities, and the peaceful heavens. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Now, in accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the results of the vote on the agenda. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and hold these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is complete, that is, before the results appear on the board. I ask you to take part in the signal vote. Dear colleagues, the signal vote. [[12:12:01]] For 234 234, press green, four, as always, red, three, yellow, democracy. Thank you, colleagues. My fellow Members, I appeal once again to all the Ukrainian national MPs, the government's representatives, who have called on us to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank all the members of the Conciliation Council, because today we have been very constructively through the entire agenda, and virtually all of the questions will be without discussion, virtually all of them. So I'm going to ask the national deputies to take their seats. But we're going to have a few small political speeches, so let's move on to the agenda. One second. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first questions. Here we go. Dear colleagues, Bill 8189, this is the draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the state of war in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85, paragraph 20 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status, the President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law (registration No. 8189) on the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the military status in Ukraine. You have been provided with the appropriate materials. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is dealt with by the Supreme Council without voting on its inclusion in the agenda in the first reading and adoption of the law as a whole. At the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we agreed to consider the matter without discussion. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, take your seats, and vote on the issue of the continuation of the war. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 5 of the Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status, I am voting for the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law (registration No. 8189) on the approval of the Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:15:43]] For 294 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next question. Bill registration number 8190. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on General Mobilization. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85, paragraph 20 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law (registration No. 8190) on the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Continuation of General Mobilization. You have been provided with the appropriate materials. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is dealt with by the Supreme Council without voting on its inclusion in the agenda in the first reading and adoption of the law as a whole. At the Conciliation Boards of Deputies and Groups, we agreed to consider the matter without discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I put to the vote for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Ukrainian Law (Registration No. 8190) on the approval of the Presidential Decree on the continuation of the general mobilization period. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:17:33]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received two applications for replacement. The first statement is from the Fatherland faction and the Future Group. Please, Cosmackin is three minutes. And after that, Lozin Roman Mikhailovich of the Voice and Trust Group is also three minutes. We're still moving on to the agenda. Please, National Deputy Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak on behalf of the Youth and Sports Committee with the support of Jean Belenyuk, Edward Proschteck, to make a statement. President IOC Thomas Bach made a clear statement during the G20 meeting yesterday for the return of Russians and Belarusians to international sports arenas. Under the canon of mass fires on Ukrainian cities and villages, when hundreds of missiles were launched into our country when houses were hit, critical infrastructure objects, perhaps Mr. Bach would have been useful when he arrived in July, not to travel to. Not to go to Kiev and not to eat, to eat at a restaurant, but to go to Butchi and Irpen. Then he would realize that world sports cannot exist apart from common sense, apart from the Olympic principles, apart from respect for international law. We believe that the Ministry of Profiles and the National Olympic Committee, which so far remain silent, should immediately form a consolidated position on Thomas Bach's oodious statement and encourage the sports communities of other countries to solidarity with Ukraine. Ukraine will never accept the rehabilitation of the Russian Federation and Belarus athletes as long as their missiles fall on our heads, as long as they kill our people and children, as long as they destroy our stadiums, as long as the enemy soldier's foot hits our ground. That's why we're making this statement today, and hopefully we'll be supported by the National Olympic Committee and the Ministry of Profiles. Ukraine will win! Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Thank you, Your Honor. Please, I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Roman Mikhajlovich of Lozinski Lozinski. It's also a performance as a substitute for a break. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u4	Dear fellow national MPs! Glory to Ukraine! I'm convinced that everyone here in this room, despite the teams and the colors, is very well aware of the country in which we are now living and the reality in which we are now living. Indeed, it is difficult to live in a parallel reality when your family and loved ones die every day. Tens of thousands of Ukrainians died, whether military or civilian. It is very difficult to live in a parallel reality when a rocket is flying in front of your eyes. It's very difficult to live in a parallel reality when people escape from shooting with children in search of a better life in another city or abroad. But, you know, unfortunately, there are people in this country who continue to live in parallel reality, especially those who have sabotaged three months of voting for a bill that will clear the MPs of local councils who have been elected from banned parties: OPCW, sharians and others. Unfortunately, they are. There are those who are trying to close a plastic center in Butch, in the same words: What do we want the future for, why young people? They must also be living in a parallel reality. But, dear colleagues, I want to tell you that in frontal villages and towns and in large cities, where it's relatively quieter, everyone sees and knows by name who knows which country they live in and who tries to hide in this parallel reality. And we need to show by concrete actions and decisions that Parliament is approaching victory in its place. We need to show by voting for the decolonization of toponymas, that is, that is important. We need to develop young, patriotic centers, and we need to store, in particular, a plastic center in Butch. We need to drive out collaborators, traitors and bastards, collect state rewards, take away the titles they've been given. And these bills, these decisions, they're registered in our hall. Friends, this is our job, this is our responsibility, and any delaying these decisions here today, committee meetings, subcommittees here, in this room is a crime. So, dear colleagues, I urge you to make responsible decisions, to decolonize our toponyms, to deprive the traitors of state awards and the names of the Hero of Ukraine, to develop young, patriotic upbringings, because this is our future; to preserve and protect our cultural institutions, such as the Long Island Centre, and to take over the mandates of the deputies of local councils, who have been chosen from parties that are recognized by the court as collaborant traitors, are prohibited. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. The first question is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the nations of the world for the recognition of Holodomor in 1932-1933 by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, please prepare. We have a little discussion to do, so I suggest we put this in the agenda of the day. People's deputies, please. Please vote. [[12:24:42]] For 271 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:25:06]] For 257 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u6	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, your thoughts are presented for consideration by the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the nations of the world for the recognition of Holodomor in 1932-1933 by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. A terrible tragedy struck the Ukrainian people in 1932-33, who took millions of lives and left an indelible mark in the history of the Ukrainian people. Today, when Ukraine is once again plagued by aggression by both the Russian Federation and the Russian Federation, when there is a massive violation of citizens’ rights and freedoms, it is important to remember the lessons of history and to honor the memory of all those killed as a result of the criminal policy of the totalitarian regime. The support of the democratic states of the world, including their recognition of the genocide of the Ukrainian people of Holodomor from 1932-1933 in Ukraine, is particularly necessary under the current conditions for Ukraine. In view of the above, the purpose of the decision is to appeal to the parliaments of the nations of the world to recognize the Holodomor of 1932-1933 as a crime of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. I want to thank, on my behalf, the entire presidency and everyone, without exception, the factions and groups that supported this decision, and we must do everything we can to make sure that the whole world remembers the lessons of the past and does not allow that to happen in the future. So I look forward to your support and glory for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u8	Heroic glory! Please sign up from factions for 2 minutes. We made a deal. Two minutes from the faction and the group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, there are only two men. Please sign up again. Dear colleagues, sign up from factions and groups. Only two men were enrolled. One second, let's rewrite it, because. Dear factions and groups, sign up, we agreed, this is a matter of discussion, next with discussion, the rest virtually all without discussion. Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, national electorate, dear Ukrainian people! Paul Bakunec, "Trust," Lviv. One of the greatest tragedies of the 20th century was the creation of the Soviet Union in 1922. A few years later, his chieftain, Stalin, ordered the Ukrainians to be killed with starvation. However, he was not alone, and there were thousands of Russians in Ukraine. And they killed millions of our grandparents with you, grandparents, grandparents, no matter what. 2022 is the greatest tragedy of the 21st century when the so - called heiress of the Soviet Union, Russia, attacked Ukraine. But the executioner is not only the Kremlin’s chieftain, but thousands of Russians who are killing Ukrainians today who are torturing the peaceful population in the occupied, occupied Ukrainian territories. And today, unfortunately, they are no longer able to speak the truth in the world, for they are filled with lies and blood. And we're talking to the international community to understand and acknowledge this great crime of international war today, as well as to recognize the great crime of the Ukrainian people through the famine of the twentieth century. We believe that the international community will unite and recognize the genocide of the Ukrainian people through famine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u11	Please, Schwachko Anton Alexiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u12	Mikichi Poturay's, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u13	Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I'll try not to waste much time. Everyone understands the need for this determination, this appeal. Let's just remember that if you put a map of those regions of Ukraine that were most affected by artificial hunger in the 1930s, you compare it to a map of the Ukrainian struggle for independence in the 17-20s, a map of the uprising against the Bolshevik occupation that continued, and then everything will become clear what the Russians were doing in Ukraine. They physically destroyed all those who could resist this criminal authority. We demand that the parliaments of the world recognize the Holocaust as genocide. It's not the first year. Mayo has already made great progress and success, but not all have, unfortunately, agreed to the Ukrainian position. Right now, when Russia came back to our territories with an open purpose to destroy Ukrainians as nations, it's just for us Ukrainians, it's time to remind ourselves of this and it's time to demand that the world declare the Holocaust a genocide. In this statement, we stress for the first time that Russia is a continuation of the practices of criminal, totalitarian Soviets, but it is not the successor of the Soviet Union, so it does not belong in the UN, it does not belong in any of the international organizations in which the Soviet Union once met. Get Russia out of the world's civil society! Please support the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u15	Please, the Cubans, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, your honor! There must always be a person in the center of our memory. Remembering the three famineous genocides of Ukraine, we need to understand that today the racists are carrying out famines -- the destruction of the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian future. At the time of the Russian invasion, when millions of Ukrainians suffer and choose their future in the fight against an aggressor, we have no right to forget the worst crime against Ukrainians in the history of our country. The famine genocide -- the famine killing of more than 7 million Ukrainians in the 32-33s, the destruction of the very essence of the nation, the killing of its spirit, the roots -- was extended in the 21st century, today. What are the main reasons for the famine? Just like today’s cannibal Russia. First of all, this desire to destroy people who supported the philosophy of an independent Ukrainian state formed a socio-political spirit of love, because what is happening today also has all the signs of genocide: killings, torture of civilians. Genocide policy is equal to genocide policy in the 1932-1933s. The genocide of the Ukrainians 90 years ago was accompanied by looting. Looking back on these days of the 90s, I want to remind you that, as today's 90s, an aggressor has faced a real national war, a massive resistance movement. Finally, I would like to say this. In the obvious historical parallels between the Holodomor genocide of 1932-19330 and today is another: we have a state today, we have the Armed Forces today, we have our church, we have language. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u17	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Skorik Mikola Leonidovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u18	People's MP Skork. The MP's "Platform for Life and Peace" group. Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, our MP group will certainly support this statement. And frankly, I asked the group to trust me to speak on behalf of the group on this issue, because this is a personal question for me. The thing is, my grandmother, from the Kirovograd region, is she's the only one in the family who's been alive practically since that tragedy in 1932-1933. She and my great-grandmother, her mother, we lost my great-grandfather, and we lost six more of her brothers and sisters, little sisters. They all died, starved to death. Once again, this happened in the center of Ukraine on a very fertile land in the Kirovograd region in the village of Verbluska. And for me, this is the story of my family. And today's vote is my personal duty to my grandmother, I hope she sees it. And at one time she told me whether or not I would forget, I always remember my whole life, and that terrible tragedy must be remembered by the entire Ukrainian people. I believe that in times as terrible as Ukraine is now experiencing, we need to grumble about what unites us. We must make sure that no Ukrainian family loses their children so that no Ukrainian child dies from bombs and hunger. We must make sure that Ukraine restores peace and territorial integrity to the territory of our nation. And in this regard, I am very pleased that, lately, Parliament has been grouped around the issues that it can.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u19	The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u20	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u21	Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u22	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Today, Parliament is considering an important appeal because it is our memory. This is the memory of millions of Ukrainians who were destroyed by the Soviet Kremlin regime, the most feared of the crimes of genocide, since conditions in Ukraine were created that were incompatible with life when people had nothing to feed themselves and their families, their children. The worst crime that can happen is when they take the last one, they take the food. And the Kremlin regime, in relation to Ukraine, to Ukrainian patriots, has always treated the Ukrainian people historically with a desire to destroy them. Because the very existence of Ukraine and the Ukrainians, according to Russia, is a threat to their domination and the restoration of the empire. Therefore, our appeal is perfectly logical especially on the eve of the anniversary of the celebration and observance of the memory of the victims of the Holodomor genocide of 1932-1933. But what is currently happening in Ukraine, Russian aggression against our state is also a continuation of the genocidal policy that Russia is pursuing against Ukraine. Crimes committed in occupied areas temporarily occupied by Ukraine are genocide in essence. And I think it must be an honor for every foreign parliament to acknowledge the Holocaust of 1932-1933 by genocide of the Ukrainian people, to make appropriate decisions at the level of parliament. Not just to go to Ukraine and do something nice, but to make sure that this crime of genocide never happens again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll have two more speeches. Please, Irina Miroslavna Konstankevich. And after that, who's gonna be the Voice? Julia Klimenko. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u24	Dear national MPs, distinguished colleagues, the Future Group, of course, supports this appeal, we think it's on time. And actually this call to parliaments of all the countries of the world is only part of the big and wide work that Ukraine and other progressive parliaments have to do, because the issue of genocide is not as relevant. And it's not just because we're celebrating this year's memorable date, the sad, tragic, 90th anniversary of the Holocaust. But at the same time, it's another date. Because in 1953, Dr. Lemkin initiated his Genocide Convention. And there in this convention he clearly called Ukraine and famine a classic example of genocide. So it's a rhetorical question. Why 70 years and 90 years have coincided, and the world and the progressive countries of the world have done nothing to ensure that the issue is addressed in international institutions. That is why we believe that it is necessary to intensify wide-ranging work so that all international organizations and institutions, such as the UN, PARJE, UNESCO, can bring into circulation the notion of genocide as a crime against the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian state. That's the first one. It takes work to get started. The other one. We believe that there is a need to make the work more active in Ukraine's humanitarian space. To do this, we need to review schools in the history of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final address of Julia Leonidni Klimenko, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, we are considering a decision today, and certainly our faction will support it because it is a historical fact. For many years, Ukraine has been turning to most states to recognize the genocide of 1932-1933 -- the genocide of Ukrainians. But I want to tell you, let's go back to today, it's been many years since then, over 80 years, 90 years -- nothing has changed. Once again, Russia continues the genocide of the Ukrainians by military means, assaulting the occupied territories of the Ukrainians by killing, raping, and raping them. The other one. She's harassing and using the products she used and destroying the Ukrainian nation in 1932-1933, now for African and Asian continents. Because we Ukrainians cannot take our products and feed the world. Russia's genocide, which it carried out in 1932-1933, is now widespread in many continents. And the world has to admit that genocide is happening both in Ukraine and in Africa and in Asia. Because Russia has turned food into weapons, just as it converts occupied territories into burned lands, Ukrainian occupied territories, destroyed lands. So let's condemn both the 1932-1933 genocide and this historically proven fact. And it's amazing that many countries don't want to recognize it. So let's start talking about genocide right now, because this is definitely a repetition of the historical cycle. And until Carthage is destroyed, this cycle will repeat itself and repeat itself. So let us make an effort to make Russia disappear on the political and physical map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, thank you for such a discussion, let us move on to making decisions. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the nations of the world for the recognition of Holodomor in 1932-1933 by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:44]] For 310 Decision taken. The factions. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. By procedure, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u28	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to put to the vote the Supreme Council a proposal to give a broadcast to the "Rad" network of the "Rada" TV network in a teletaraphone to show you the discussion of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I'm putting Arthur Gerasimov to the vote. Everybody get the point? Please vote. [[12:45:36]] For 288 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next draft of Decree 0173 is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the NATO Organization on the relationship and information relating to cooperation in consultations, management, liaison, intelligence, observation and coordination within the framework of NATO's Partnership for Peace programme. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:46:21]] For 262 Decision taken. Please sign up: two for, two for, and two against, those who wish to speak. Dear colleagues, and just after that we'll have a large cluster of questions, which, without discussion, please don't leave. The word is given to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u30	We will certainly support this bill because deep integration into NATO and the application of NATO standards is a strategic interest for Ukraine. But I can say that NATO is not just a relationship, it's not just technical military issues, it's about democracy. Today, we welcome TV sets, holiday liaisons. But a few days ago, several television journalists who entered Herson without permission from the President's Office, CNN, Sky News, TF1, were denied accreditation. I realize that maybe someone wants to make the only marathon out of foreign media, but that's not how it works, that's not how it works. So I think the best gift and the best greeting would be a return to accreditation, an apology, and a change in the rules of conduct with journalists who explain war. Journalists, television broadcasters just need to keep working and turn into national digital channels "Primium" and "Espreso" and "5th", which were illegally removed from the air by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on 3 April. And it's also a question of our democracy that we should have democracy, not ermacracy in Ukraine. And finally, I have a question for my colleagues in Parliament. Why is the Moscow Hall, which led Ukraine into "Russian peace", still headed by the Committee on Freedom of Speech? That too.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u31	The word is given to Mr. Nastavajchenk Valentina Alexandrovich, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Dear people of Ukraine! Today, Parliament will surely ratify another memorandum, another document that brings Ukraine's NATO membership closer to the North Atlantic Alliance. The Fatherland faction will vote and support this decision. Just as we are today using this vote, this ratification, we call on all NATO member countries, 30 of our allies, to create a common air defence, anti-air defence against Russian terrorist missiles. It's time together, thirty plus one, Ukraine plus all NATO members create missile defenses. The time has come for such bold, secure decisions. Ukraine is ready for them. Our Armed Forces, our troops have shown that they can and can resist Russian aggression, which can be the best Armed Forces in NATO with our allies, so today and today's decision for Ukraine and for our NATO allies is to be together, to defend each other and to defend our right to exist and our sovereignty and freedom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u33	Please give the floor to Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine". Please. You'll be officially handed over. Give it to Dmitri. Please, Dmitri, come on in. They won't let you in.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, Mr. Golovo, the memorandum we want to ratify envisions enhanced NATO support for the development of the latest communications technologies in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the modernization of data processing systems, the improvement of our military logistics. It's very important. Every real military expert will tell you that communication and logistics are key, perhaps the most important elements in the army from the point of view of fighting. So it's very important for us to put this document into practice. This will bring us closer to victory. There can't be two thoughts here. That's why the MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" group certainly voted in favour of this document in favour of ratifying this memorandum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u35	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Honorable fellow Ukrainian national deputies may symbolically be considering the draft of this bill today: TV, radio, and communications. Today, I would like to welcome all the workers of this worthy field who are now doing their duty in war conditions, risking their lives to prove true information to our citizens. We realize that under military conditions, they carry out other tasks. That is why we welcome them today. And on behalf of all of us, let us welcome the workers who today, I reiterate, risk their lives, bring information to our citizens, provide them with a real connection, with their professional holiday. Congratulations again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the NATO Organization on the relationship and information relating to cooperation in consultations, management, liaison, intelligence, observation and recognizance of the NATO Partnership for Peace programme (registration No. 0173). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:54:45]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we still have a whole block of laws that we vote on without discussion. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, Bill 8203 is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the States of the Group of 20 on the exclusion of the Russian Federation from this Group. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:28]] For 313 Decision taken. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the States of the Group of Twenty concerning the exclusion of the Russian Federation from this Group (registration No. 8203). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:00]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next. 0170 is a draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes (registration No. 0170). I propose to accept as a whole the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill No.0170. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:46]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 0174, is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Iceland on air links. I propose to adopt this Bill No.0174 as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:23]] For 305 Decision taken. The next bill 0175 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on air links. I propose to accept as a basis and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the bill, registration number 0175. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:00]] For 313 Decision taken. Next bill, registration number 8140. This is a draft law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:35]] For 309 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute (art. 8140). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:02]] For 310 Decision taken. I would like to propose to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill No. 8140. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:26]] For 276 Decision taken. Let's move on. Next Bill 7492. This is a draft Law amending article 165, paragraph 165, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation of Certain Charities collected by Volunteers. I'm proposing to adopt this bill, No. 7492. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:07]] For 310 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending article 165, paragraph 165, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation of Certain Charities collected by Volunteers (project registration number 7492). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:44]] For 313 Decision taken. Next bill, 6246. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. I propose to adopt this bill 6246 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:16]] For 313 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6246. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:44]] For 265 Decision taken. Next bill, 8098. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the order of conduct of military service under contract of foreigners and stateless persons in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other forms of military formation in accordance with Ukraine's laws. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the 8098 session. Please vote. [[13:02:28]] For 313 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the order of conduct of military service under the contract of foreigners and stateless persons in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and others established under the laws of Ukraine of military formation (registration No. 8098). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:03:04]] For 313 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8098. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:03:31]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill, 7557. These are the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Functioning of Local and Voluntary Fire Protection. Dear colleagues, the President's proposals have been submitted to Bill 7557. We agreed to address this issue without discussion, so we turn to voting on the proposals proposed by the President of Ukraine. Two proposals were made by the President. The President's proposal under number one is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:24]] For 311 Decision taken. The offer is included. The President's proposal under number two is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:49]] For 306 Decision taken. So all of the President's proposals are accepted. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. In accordance with article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Functioning of Local and Voluntary Fire Protection (Registration No. 7557). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:29]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The bill was adopted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Next Bill 7494. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to clarify the provisions on the restoration of lost materials of criminal conduct, the lifting of a precautionary measure to carry out military service under military conditions. We agreed on the Conciliation Council, no one will make any adjustments. That's why we're voting right now. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to clarify the provisions on the recovery of lost materials of criminal conduct, the lifting of a precautionary measure to carry out military service under conditions of martial law (registration number 7494). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:41]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 8064. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific features of the enforcement of decisions and decisions of other bodies in the course of the war. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:14]] For 308. Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific features of the enforcement of decisions and decisions of other bodies in the course of the war (registration No. 8064) in accordance with Part One of the 116th Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:47]] For 314 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8064. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:14]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 7565 and 7565-1. This is a draft law amending the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine before the law on the change of the system of local courts in Ukraine in connection with the establishment of (lying) areas. I propose to include these two bills 7565 and 7565-1 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:02]] For-286 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt Bill No. 7565-1: draft Act amending the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Judicial and Judicial Act on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine until the law on the change of the system of local courts in Ukraine in relation to the establishment (lyingulation) of areas. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:45]] For 281 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7565-1. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:11]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next Bill 6107. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law in connection with the ratification of the Protocol on the Right to Maintenance (6107). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:50]] For 310 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on International Private Law in relation to the ratification of the Protocol on the right to maintenance (registration number 6107). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:22]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill. I'm sorry, I suggest you cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6107. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:49]] For 274 Decision taken. Next bill, 6425. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy. We agreed it was a second reading, no one would make any adjustments. So I immediately propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy (registration number 6425). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:34]] For 283 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next bill 6321. It's also a second reading, we've agreed, no one's making any adjustments. This is a draft law amending articles 166-11 of the Code of Administrative Offences in relation to changes in the procedure for the submission to the State registry of information about the final beneficiary of the legal person. I therefore immediately propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 166 with 11 of the Code on Administrative Offences in connection with changes in the procedure for the submission to the State Register of Information on the Final Beneficiary Owner of a Legal Person (registration number 6321). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:38]] For 285 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next bill, as well as the second reading, we agreed that no one would amend it. It is 8076: a bill to introduce the Law on Charities and Charities in Ukraine to improve the integration of charity workers into the Register of Volunteers for Anti-Terrorist Operation and/or to implement measures to ensure national security and defence, cutting off and deterring the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Ladies and gentlemen, I immediately propose to accept, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law on the introduction of the Law on Charities and Charities to improve the integration of charitable workers into the Register of Volunteers for the Anti-Terrorism Operation and/or the implementation of measures to ensure national security and defence, cutting-off and deterring the armed aggression of the Russian Federation (registration No. 8076). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:48]] For 308. Decision taken. Next bill, 3869. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on an expert in radiation protection. We agreed, too, that no one makes any adjustments. So I immediately propose to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on an expert on radiation protection (registration number 3869). I ask the people of the deputies to vote. [[13:15:33]] For 307 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 5748. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to combat infringements in the field of labour. We agreed, too, without amendment. Therefore, I immediately propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation against infringements of labour rights (registration number 5748). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:14]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. One second. Next bill, 8062. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the settlement of the issue of drawing administrative responsibility for actions aimed at unlawful exemption from or reduction in the payment of customs payments, as well as other unlawful measures aimed at the avoidance of payment of customs payments. I propose a second reading and, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 8062. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:02]] For 308. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill 7712. This is a draft of the Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property. We agreed to that. Julia Volodymyrna, we agreed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I therefore make an offer to accept in the second reading and in general with the necessary. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property (registration number 7712). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:18]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security (registration number 5860). We agreed, too, without amendment. So I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, Bill 5860. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:03]] For 304 Decision taken. Next bill, 3680 B.C.E. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukrainian Laws on the Protection of Plant Variety and on Seed and Gardening Material. We agreed, too, that no amendments were made. So I immediately propose to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the laws of Ukraine on the Protection of Plant Variety and on Seed and Gardening Material (registration number of the 3680-d bill). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:51]] For 273 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is 8,088. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine on certain matters of determining the legal status of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine under military conditions. I immediately propose (we agreed without amendments) to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine on certain matters of determining the legal status of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine under the terms of the state of war (registration number of Bill 8088). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:50]] For 305 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next is 8040: draft law amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. Dear colleagues, I'm making a proposal (we've also agreed without discussion), and I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:22]] For 294 I'm proposing to adopt draft Law 8040 on amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:45]] For 285 I propose to adopt, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act (Registration No. 8040) which takes into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:12]] For 268. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, too, was negotiated without discussion, 8095. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the quality of higher education. I'm proposing to include Bill 8095 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:51]] For 297 Decision taken. I'd like to make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure, Bill 8095. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:16]] For 265 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee’s proposals, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the quality of higher education (registration No. 8095). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:45]] For 293 Decision taken. And final. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8095. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:13]] For 255 Decision taken. Next bill, 8118. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities on the National Fund for Research of Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:44]] For 296 Decision taken. I'd like to make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure, Bill 8118. Please vote. [[13:25:06]] For 258. Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine on the National Fund for Research of Ukraine (Registration No. 8118). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:25:30.]] For 298 Decision taken. And I'm proposing to shorten half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering on the National Fund for Research of Ukraine (registration No. 8118). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:02]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 7327. Dear colleagues, look, we're still in the middle of a discussion. Dear colleagues, there's such an offer for us, I'll give it to Alexander Sergiyovich, he'll make an offer, then we'll think about how to do it. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u38	We now have an offer to take a 15-minute break for two committees in parallel -- budgetary and national security and defence. If there's no objection, then it's a technical break. Many voted, but the system was rested so as not to fail. And then we ask two committees. Yes, at 1:45 p.m. we're going again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, in this regard, I have been tasked with conducting my meetings and preparing material for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, please take a break. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, we are continuing our meeting. The committees are all here to gather, aren't they? Have you made up your mind, Your Honor? Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we are moving on to further consideration of matters of the order of the day. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, take your seats. Next bill 7327. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the state environmental monitoring system, environmental information (environmental information) and environmental information management. Get ready, now I'm going to suggest we address this issue in a simplified procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:54:25]] For-162 Decision taken. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, then, let us follow the simplified procedure. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use of Prescek Eduardo Petrovich. I understand you're from the authors and from. Yes, Edward? From the authors and the committee, so give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u41	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use at its meeting on September 13, 2022, reviewed the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the State system of environmental monitoring, environmental information and environmental management information (register No. 7327) (worked). A bill in accordance with the Supreme Council Regulation of 8 July 2022 on the re-reading of the draft Ukrainian registry number 7327, prepared by the Committee and introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich and other Ukrainian National Deputies. The project's position is aimed at creating and ensuring the functioning of the state environmental monitoring system, improving the legal regulation of environmental information and the mechanisms for accessing it, and defining the legal principles for information management in the field of environmental protection. The main scientific and expert management concluded that some of the comments that remained unaccounted for and made comments and suggestions on the new provisions of the amended bill. Ukraine's Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources supports the adoption of a revised draft law. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the State Office for Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine reported no comments and suggestions to the bill. Ukraine’s Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Health, and the State Department of Geodesy and Cartography support the draft law with observations. The committee believes that comments can be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the proposed draft law be adopted as a basis for the re-reading of the first reading. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, I ask the factions and groups to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to this bill. Please welcome to the word of Besugal Marian Volodymyrn, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Marianne Volodymyrically, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u43	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u44	You can't hear anything, Marianne Volodymyr. Please give a powerful speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Please support the bill. This is extremely important for national security and defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u46	Thank you. Yes, environmental information is vital to security and defence. Please give the word to Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u47	Please pass the word to the Prince's Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u48	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u49	Dear friends, well, you could say that the committee really worked well, and this law is clearly better than the government, but there are a lot of observations to it, because it's about monitoring the environment. Without any monitoring, we know that we are seeing Russian aggression now, when Russian tanks are destroying our land and missiles are destroying, and what is happening to our ecology is perfectly understandable to all of us. And the reason for that is rocket aggression. So if we're going to say whether this project is necessary, it's definitely necessary. But is he on time? He's definitely out of time, and I'll explain why. The bill contains a lot of disagreements and certain terms are used, but there is no explanation that can create problems with law enforcement. For example, the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act provide for the transmission of information between relevant entities, channels of information, but there is nowhere to be found on the information channel. The bill obliges all enterprises on a permanent basis to monitor the state of the environment and its components. Monitoring the state of the environment on a permanent basis requires considerable additional resources, expenses. According to the European Business Association, the cost of one monitoring post is 5 million dollars. Imagine, we are obliged to spend an additional 5 million dollars on every enterprise right now, and this equipment is being imported, so it's not being produced in Ukraine. Is Ukraine’s business ready for such expenses and responsibilities today? Obviously, it's not ready. So now it's hard to vote for it, although generally in peacetime it would be a completely acceptable bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u50	Please. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich was supposed to be speaking, but he's handing Timoshenko to Volodymyr. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. I would like to draw your attention to this bill is the fundamental observation of the European Business Association. We're moving to the European Union, aren't we? But it seems to me that every MP needs documents such as denials against this law of the European Business Association, to be read. What's it say? It states that this law provides that entrepreneurs, owners, will be obliged to monitor the environmental parameters of certain ones at their expense. And that's ridiculous, because entrepreneurs can't do that. This must be done by the state, the state must monitor all environmental parameters of the country's life. And the European Business Association said it's illogical to translate from state to enterprise this monitoring because it's an additional responsibility, additional costs, additional functions. And the main thing is that it's an environment without real monitoring. In addition, this bill practically dissipates any monitoring of forest use and the state of forestry in general. And this is totally unacceptable in this law. Therefore, our team will not vote in favour of this bill. But if we're really focused on some European standards, we can't vote for that right now. You have to read all the objections and then make the decisions. This law is, in principle, not bad, but in a state like that, unfortunately, it is unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall, so let's move on to the decision-making process. Please, I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the state environmental monitoring system, environmental information, environmental information and environmental information management (project number 7327). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:03:43]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7327. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:04:11]] For 217 The lines are not shortened. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next bill, 8137. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the taxation of controlled foreign companies. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:04:47]] For 244 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. For 223 Decision taken. Please invite the head of the Gethmans Committee Danilo Alexandrovich, please. You're both from the authors and the committee, right? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, in 2020, in January months, you and I adopted an anti-offshor law for the first time in the history of our nation. A law that does not allow money to be withdrawn from Ukraine’s territory that is made in Ukraine without paying taxes. A law that compels those who have previously raised these funds to pay taxes on income received abroad. One of the key elements of this law was controlled by foreign companies whose status is defined today by the Tax Code and the Tax Code defines the mechanism for taxation of controlled foreign companies. In fact, controlled foreign companies are the legal synonym of those offshore companies that have been talked about so much by politicians, but they haven't done anything with them in 28 years. During a year and a half of the law’s work, we found out many questions about the application of laws. We have done a very thorough, detailed work on this new instrument for our legislation, an institution of controlled foreign companies, which has revealed some shortcomings in legal regulation. And it's this bill that's developed with the participation of better auditors and Ukraine and Europe, as well as OECD representatives, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the State Tax Service, business, so on this bill, that includes improving the taxation mechanism of controlled foreign companies. In an absolute majority of its standards, it softens the tax rules of controlled foreign companies. It limits the number of connected individuals who share control with the couple’s members over the respective companies. While it is not considered to be controlled by foreign charities and public organisations, the order for requests for controlled foreign companies is being clarified, penalties for non-availability of control and ignorance of ownership of KICs are being reduced, and the reasons for documentary checks are being clarified. In general, we are asked to adopt this law, of course, by business, by those who work with controlled foreign companies, who want to pay taxes in Ukraine, but have some obstacles to do so. That's why we drafted this bill. The committee supported him as a basis for his first reading. For the second reading, of course, we will work it out with you. And today I ask you to use the green button to support this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Two, two, against this bill. Please give the word to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Nina Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u56	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, in fact, wanted to start their speech without waiting for what the committee head said about the fact that two years in a row, the whole of 2020, the whole of 2021, your faction's representatives were on the air and were talking about what you did deofshoring. You've already done it, you've already drawn so much unpaid taxes into the country, and by today, the bubble hole is zero. But these are all so difficult norms that I agree that the country that has adopted such important changes should be able to improve legislation with what it is, and it could be applied in Ukraine. And you were in a hurry to accept everything in a hurry without understanding it, because they were working for you, not understanding the meaning and order of the application in Ukraine of the so-called deofshorization. Copy that. Now, imagine, no report has yet been submitted, it has not been fully protested, but there are already a number of proposed changes. Because Big Four was absolutely right in protesting such imaginary cases for those people who would be their customers. I don't mind that our beneficiaries, our owners, who are the supervisors of foreign companies, should consult. But all of this looks like another lie to people and that information that you've just been hanging on to people for two years. In fact, what's going to happen now is going to be cleaned up to such an extent that no one pays anything in Ukraine, as you did with a one-time declaration, that no one pays anything here on unpaid taxes. So we will refrain from making such decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u58	Please, Zujev Maksim Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I urge you not to support this bill. The only achievement of this call was the real deofshorization that was adopted by Bills 1209 and 1210. Now what? With the outbreak of war, it turns out that the most difficult thing is for offshore owners. And now we have to cancel some of the standards that we have set for them here. Let the offshores work? How do you explain this to our citizens? How do you explain this to our fighters? How do you explain this to our agrarians? Because the 5,600 that were voted on is 6,000 dollars out of every pie that is due on January 1. So let the agrarians pay the money and the offshore owners don't? I urge you to watch what you are offered to vote on. Controlled foreign companies are really offshore. And I ask you not to support this bill. Such things need to be discussed first with Parliament, with factions, and then with acceptance. Do not let offshore owners, no green button.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u61	The word is given to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Voice. Dear colleagues, and after that, we vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u62	So, colleagues, let's put out a few accents. First. Controlled foreign companies are all companies in different jurisdictions, including offshore companies, but not only. The other one. No one cancels control, we're running it. Do you remember having adopted such a scandalous 1210 Law and having many observations? So they took these notes from the basic OECD, from the Minfin, from the tax office, but not from those who protect the offshores, and they put it into this law. All the business, all the people's deputies had the opportunity three times to come to the committee to hear what the bill was about. Third. What do we do in this law? Provided that you are a member of a charity or a community organization abroad, this is not considered to be a controlled foreign company -- normal. If you have an Apple action in Ukraine, you don't have to report for Apple, normal. That's what they do. Thus, the law is normal enough, and the first reading can clearly vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken. I beg you, we are preparing to make a decision. Colleagues, I would like you to take your seats, to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for improving the taxation of controlled foreign companies (project No. 8137). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:17]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's send you back to your first reading. I'm proposing that this bill be re-readed, Bill 8137. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:51]] For 227 Decision taken. Let's vote on this proposal: shorten the preparation lines for the re-first reading. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to? You don't have to? All right, we won't. Dear colleagues, the bill went on rereading the first reading. The next bill is 8131. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the implementation of the international standards for automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. I'm proposing to include 8131 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:16:48]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed to a discussion, so let's write it down immediately: two in favour, two in favour. Please sign up. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u64	I beg your pardon, Mr. Head, to pass on to Nina Petrovna Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u65	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, it's really bad that the author didn't report right now, because there are important moments. And we need to know that the implementation of the international standards for automatic communication of financial accounts is inevitable. And that's why our country, which has already joined together, for example, the State Tax Service in August, joined the Multilateral Agreement of the CRS, is about to consider this bill. He says that it is our Ukrainian banks that should report to the tax authorities of other countries on the accounts of individuals and legal persons opened in Ukraine, if there are certain balances: 1 million for individuals and 250,000 for legal persons. But our State Tax Service will also receive information about Ukrainian residents from financial institutions in other countries. And I now have the biggest question, and I think we should make the most of our tax service, which has been celebrated in recent months by the mere use, performance, loyalty, of our tax evasion functions, so that it can use this information to the benefit of the state, the budget and the order. So these are the issues that need to be crucial to us right now so that the database that comes from financial institutions is clearly provided with sufficient protection so that there is no manual intervention, that's the first. And secondly, it has to be used automatically to control taxpayers' taxes. It's not supposed to be selective: somewhere in there I took the information, yeah, it's reliable, I'm going to use it for some people. This should be a structured work, and we should work hard on what we do. In the first reading, we're going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u67	Please, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, the "Serve of the People" faction. He's handing over Danil Alexanderovich to the Hetmans. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I want to join the previous speaker. Indeed, the implementation of the CRS standard in Ukraine is inevitable. It's not just a requirement of our partners, it's a necessity, because we understand that, today, Ukraine is still passing on information about non-residents of foreign nations who have property in Ukraine, but who are not getting information about our residents and their property abroad. Secondly, I would like to point out that this is certainly not about our refugees, of course it is not about the citizens who are suffering abroad today, who have left in connection with the war in Ukraine. It's about those who have enough wealth of 1 million euros, and it's about our residents that we're going to get automatic information. And I would like to point out that today it's also possible to get information, but on a specific person on a tax basis, and the standard that we're talking about right now and that more than 100 countries have joined the world, this standard provides for the transmission of automatic, automatic reporting on the established form, so that the tax authorities know about the assets, they know about the property that our residents have. It's a completely civilized tool, a completely civilized method that's being used all over the world, and it's going to be used in us. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, the next Dmitruk Artem Hennadijovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u70	Please pass on the word "Valerius."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u71	Valery Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, in general, the idea of the bill is noble and very important, because we give regulators access to information about financial accounts. But the Devil is said to be in detail. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, among other things, the bill goes against international standards. In particular, there can be no language for reporting on the financial accounts of Ukrainian tax residents. Nor does criticism stand up to the need for the financial reporting of agents. It is also unclear why Minfin is given the right to have his own discretion to set requirements for the form and content of the nonresident’s property structure. Nor is there an exhaustive list of documents to be provided, in fact, to audited financial agents. The right things must be clear and clear to all. Therefore, it is the MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" group that abstains from voting for the bill, and it is also proposed that it be further worked out and put on a readout. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. After that, the Ironman will vote. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u74	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, there is no doubt that we must join the CRS system. And fighting corruption is certainly our key task. But at the same time, read carefully all those who are going to press the pros button, read this bill. It seems to me that this is another step that, in our difficult political environment, can become a lever for, in fact, political influence. It's not as good as you think. Our faction will hold, we think this bill is imperfect, it doesn't exactly fit the system, it's part of the CRS system. That's it. They're actually using it now to even tighten the throat of those who are unruly, including financially. So think when you vote. We'll hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Dear colleagues, and after that, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u76	Yeah, first of all, I don't see where Bujansky's chief offshore fighter was anywhere. Because if we're against offshores, this law is exactly what we need to adopt. SRS. Now we're giving out data, as we said, according to foreigners, that we have tax, financial reporting there. For Americans, it's FATCA, it's working, and no bank will work without it. We are now joining the idea that Ukraine will now receive the same information from the 24th year. Can we join the European Union without this law? No, it's not. It's one of the dogma that works. Do we, Ukraine, need this law? Yes. This is really going to be the fight against offshores, and it's absolutely necessary. That's why the bill is right, we have to vote. On the ground, that's the basis of the first reading. Nevertheless, it needs to be supported with certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u77	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Implementation of the International Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts (Registration No. 8131). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:26:30.]] For 243 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8131. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:26:57]] For 223 The decision is not taken. So we're not canceling out. Next bill, 5839. This is a draft law on national regulation of genetic engineering and state control over the circulation of genetically modified organisms and genetically modified products for food security. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:27:35]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one faction wanted to discuss only, I think, if so. Nobody insists? Can we vote? Euro-integrated, come on, dear fellows. I propose to adopt the draft Law on State regulation of genetic engineering and State control over the circulation of genetically modified organisms and genetically modified products for food security (code number 5839). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:28:21]] For 247 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5839. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:28:45]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 8079. This is a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Chapter 8, of the Ukrainian Tax Code to prohibit the presence of a gaming business on a simplified system of taxation. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:29:30]] For 292 Decision taken. I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner and ask the people's deputies to vote. [[14:29:53]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, who's going to discuss "European Solidarity" and all, right? And "The Fatherland." Two factions ask for two minutes and we continue to vote. Is that how you see it, colleagues? Please, who? And who else? Then, my friends, two for, two for, no, please sign up. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Mr. Chlapuk Maksim Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, what's the bill about? In April, an amendment to the Tax Code appeared in the budget committee’s decision that only 2 percent of taxes could be paid by the gambling business, not 18 plus 30, but only 2 percent. The result of this bill is worth about 200 to 300 million dollars a month to the state. Those who moved paid ten times less taxes than they paid even at the beginning of the war, March, and so forth. This bill is about to take away the tax benefit for a gaming business that's already so fast that some of them just show zeros in their reports. And now the main thing. This bill, it looks like this: one line, just clean up the benefits. The committee's decision: on the basis and in general. If we vote on the basis and in general, this benefit will not work until next month. And that's at least a few hundred million in our budget. Now I really want to see who gets up and blocks the reception in general. And I will certainly do everything I can to make this known to our community. Because, frankly, during the war, even if you're a big builder, covering the gaming business, well, at least cynical. So I'm asking you to support it as a whole. I think everyone who wanted to stop paying the budget didn't pay enough. And hopefully the baby will deal with them someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u79	Please, Sergey Alexiyovich Demchenko faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u81	Please, Maxim Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u82	Colleagues, when even the Ironman noticed the need to cancel the benefits for the gaming business, there was no turning back. You know, we always have the same picture: first we heroically overcome the opposition and introduce benefits to the gaming business and then we shyly clean them up. Let us finally clean them up, at the ninth place of war, and we will never again mention that the gambling business in our country needs any benefits. Everyone else is working without help, and the gaming business needed them somehow. We cancel, on the basis of the whole, and we forget forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u83	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Princely Mikola Leonidovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u85	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I don't think we're adults at all, and we don't have to deal with such important issues, just superficially. In fact, it's not a ban, it's a rule that's going back to the limit of the gambling business on a simplified tax system that was really adopted by this hall in April. Indeed, there are dozens of times that gambling organizers have paid less in the budget. But the most important, honourable colleagues, on August 13, 2022, the deadline for the implementation of the state system of online monitoring ended, without which it cannot and could not continue to operate this business in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today we have a decision to make: to ban the introduction of a gaming business in Ukraine. You then made a decision on the condition that in two years, a special body would create this system that would fix all online rates, all online players, and that would only allow you then to control what you said was all the standards that would prevent children and gamers from getting involved in this. So now I'm asking you all, it's you, "Serve of the people," if you have a responsibility, you have a conscience in the end, you have to initiate an immediate cessation of the gaming business in Ukraine, for that there are reasons, the previous law has not been implemented. And enough to say, I've, by the way, raised that question on the committee, but we've decided that we're going to try to forget this obvious most important question. So, of course, we will be enacting this law. But I expect a responsible decision from you, then we will be honest before each other, especially during the war. There can be no such thing in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u87	Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u88	Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u89	Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u90	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will certainly support a bill that foresees no simplified system of taxation for the gaming business, especially for that gaming business that, unfortunately, is still operating in Ukraine and has Russian origin. We had long had all the Russian business from Ukraine to banish and put an end to it here, and all the assets of the Russian Federation were to be arrested and transferred to the state budget as an aggressor country. But I would like, colleagues, to remind you in this session room that the Fatherland faction is a faction that has systematically opposed the introduction and restoration of the gaming business. We've been giving you examples here of how many families have just been destroyed in Ukraine because of the gaming business, how many children have lost the opportunity to have the means to exist, because unfortunately some parents have been gamers and have this disease, and they've lost everything in their home in slot machines and in the gaming business. It was done. We were promised that after that, the government budget would be overslept with billions of money from the gaming business. Where is this money in the government budget? Show me that for the gaming business we've got any profits. On the contrary, we've been able to benefit from the fact that if there's a gambling business in the hotel, then this hotel will actually get a license from the state free of charge for opening the casino. That's what we accepted. And that's why I think that before we do any of the things that apply to a game business, not just to have a discussion here, but to report on how much money the state budget has received from the gaming business, or whether there are restrictions imposed on gamers, or whether there are legal regulations on that matter. And then we'll be able to make any decisions with you consciously. Because first they make decisions, and then there's this practice, and they're heroically overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Please take your seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX, Chapter 8, of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Prohibition of Playing Business on a Simplified System of Taxation (Registration No. 8079). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:39:20]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. By factions, please show me. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply and amendment deadlines. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, look, there's an offer, it's been bugged, put it all together. Is there anyone who would deny it? The factions deny it. Which factions deny, show me. There are factions that deny it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm proposing that we cut back half the deadline for amendments and proposals to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8079. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:40:17]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill, 8146. This is a bill amending the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, as well as some legislative acts by Ukraine to improve the fight against terrorism. I'm proposing to include in the agenda Bill 8146. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:40:59]] For 285 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:41:21]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, what faction will insist? "European Solidarity" is all. Yeah? Then let's give two minutes of "European Solidarity" and vote. No one insists on discussing it anymore? Nobody. Arthur Volodymyrovich, which one of you will it be? I can't see. I see. Hončarenko Alexiyyovich is 2 minutes and then we vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u92	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, today Ukraine suffers from terrorism most of all in the world, obviously, and we must seek recognition of the Russian regime as terrorist. This has already been done in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which, according to the amendment made by our Ukrainian delegation, supported this. Then we see how this has been accepted: Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Czech Republic. I am sure that the European Parliament will join next week, and this will be very serious. We all have to work on it to call things our names, that the Russian regime is terrorist. We see the last one, this is the Czech Republic, which has already voted. We see that this terrorism has actually gone beyond Ukraine. And we see people in Poland died yesterday from the terrorism that Russia is doing. And this says to the whole world today, Poland itself, that, look what's going on, that the war that Russia started, what's going on with it. And that's why, friends, this is definitely something to be considered. But what I'd like to say is that we have to unite across the country to fight this -- with the Russian Federation's terrorist state. Because unfortunately, we see things coming back against our colleague Sophia Fedina and Marousi Zviroi, who is fighting for Ukraine today, while they have raised the subject of the Golden and the retreat from it, for which Ukraine is now giving its lives and very many lives. We see that the case against General Marchenko, who is fighting for Ukraine, is continuing against Saxon Pogrebski. He's being accused of attacking whom? A traitor named Volosin ran and sat somewhere in Moscow. And we're still looking at this PRTR that's sitting here, and we're not cleaning it up from the Ukrainian Parliament. There should be no such thing. We all have to unite around one thing: the fight against terrorism, with the terrorist state of Russia. And that's the only way, my friends, we're gonna win.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code in connection with the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, as well as some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the fight against terrorism (registration No. 8146). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:53]] For 270. Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8146. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:18]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 6,504. This is the draft Law on Service in Local Self - Government. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:47]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, should we discuss this? Which factions will it be? [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich, can we vote? Okay, so the faction will say "European solidarity" and "Paternity." The others don't insist? Don't insist. Please, two minutes, European Solidarity, two minutes, Fatherland. Who's it gonna be? Arthur Volodymyrovich, which one of you? Princey. And from. Eutushka. Let's go to Eutuszka first, then the Princess. Please, Eutuszk, then the Princely, and then we vote, honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u94	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Perhaps you've asked, fellow believers, that this is a rereading of the first reading. And I remind you, in this session room, we had a discussion that was called on as the basis of a bill from the government was an attempt to break, so to speak, the slang, the legal and organizational autonomy of local self-government authorities. Now all the work that was on the committee was done. Participated in them, these works, all associations: The Association of Ukrainian Cities, the Association of District and District Councils, the Association of Territorial Communities -- and the already harmonized document we have today, jointly worked. The Fatherland faction had already said that in order to stop the outflow of officials of local self-government, it was not necessary to intervene in their activities, to preserve their autonomy both financially and otherwise. Because the subject of authority should clearly understand how to encourage local authorities to work — through a bonus, through other things. In fact, that was the basis that we didn't agree with the government's authors the first time we read it, and now this document, which was co-worked on the committee, finds support in the "Paternity" faction. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. What we're talking about is that before the second reading, we need to take the most of the proposals from the representatives of the U.M.S. in Ukraine, because that's the foundation of governance. Local governments should be very strong in terms of governance in our country. We support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u95	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Please, Princess Nikola Leonidovich. Please, the faction of European Solidarity. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u96	Colleagues, there are positive norms in this project. Political and professional positions are limited, and the legal framework for improving the professional competence of officials is being improved in the field ministry. But have we completed the process of decentralization? Obviously not. Have we updated the Law on Local Self - Rule? In part. Is there a limit to the authority of the councils, or is there a solution to the issues with the district councils that we have discussed here? It's not solved. So, of course, there are many shortcomings in this bill, and there are situations that we don't think are just the Constitutions. In particular, the bill provides for the regulation of certain aspects of the activities of officials of local self-government by means of regulations, namely, the central authority of the executive branch, which implements policies in the relevant sphere. But according to article 19 of the Constitution, the authorities of Ukraine act on the basis of laws and the Constitution, not on the basis of legal acts. The content and scope of the powers of city, village, and village representatives are not defined in the law. Similarly, the legal status of the head of the service and the management of individual types of councils is not understood in the text of the bill. All these questions may need serious work. And even though associations of local self-government have reached agreement with members of the profile committee on how to settle the issues of paying local government officials, in general, we are trying to resolve the point issue in the general chaos of local self-government that exists. It should be noted that this is what we want to do in a state of war when individual types of councils are completely deprived of any authority and have no impact on important decisions or on funding, because this is what military administrations are now doing. Because of this, "European Solidarity" has decided to stay in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we've completed our discussion of the bill, we're moving on to a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose that the draft Service Law be adopted as a basis for the local self - government authorities. — Registration No. 6504. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:51:07]] For 278 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6504. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:51:32]] For 245 Decision taken. The next bill 4558 is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve state regulation in the field of pesticide and agrochemicals. It's a Euro-Integration Bill. Second reading. There, as far as I can tell, will only be an amendment to the confirmation, right? No one's going to make any changes? Please, Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkov, call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, last time we checked, she was 91, now she's 172. It's about the unconstitutional powers handed down by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and they should be in the Cabinet of Ministers. The authors pointed out in the table that this is edited, in the end column it is not. In order for there to be no misunderstandings, forgings during the drafting of the bill, mistakes, etc., I suggest that it be put to the test, rejected, and then the incomprehensibility and the double approach to this amendment will be removed. I think then we can make this law more qualitative. Regulation 172.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, 172 amendments, author Proschtuk, Bondarenko. It's considered editorially. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I say correctly, puts the committee's decision to take into account an editorially 172 amendments. Please have the people's deputies vote. [[14:53:25]] For 242 Decision taken. All right, dear fellows, can we move on? Do you have any more? Dmitri Alexanderovich, how many amendments have you made? Another one, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u100	Two.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u101	Two more. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u102	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u103	Number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u104	You're kind of weird because you didn't support this last time. I understand that after the calls, many change position, to MPs and factions. The following amendments were similarly not supported during the preliminary consideration of the bill, and now the authors are putting them back into the bill. They contain a corrupt component, they allow this agency to determine its own plans and then control itself. Well, that's very convenient. And after these changes were rejected in the last session, I very much hope that you will remain constant in your position and will not be swayed by phone calls. Edit 48th and 54th. Please place them on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u105	Now, one second. Who's the author? Dear colleagues, 48 amendments, she's counted by committee. The author is the great one. Brainy puts it on the stand. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[14:54:54]] For 206 The decision is not taken. And 54 amendments to the authorship of the High Priest. It's counted, too. The People’s Deputies ask for such a decision. It's considered editorially. Therefore, the National Deputy of Razumkov requests that such a decision be made by an editorial committee to be confirmed in the Hall. I'm betting on 54 amendments, which are edited. Please vote. [[14:55:31]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we can go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving state regulation in the field of pesticides and agrochemicals (registration number 4558) as part of a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:56:11]] For 274 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill 4482. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of the activities of separate branches of a legal person established in accordance with the legislation of a foreign State. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:56:47]] For 275 Decision taken. I'm offering to consider it as a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:57:09]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, what factions will insist on discussing? Can we vote? Nobody insists? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the organization of the activities of separate departments of a legal person established in accordance with the legislation of a foreign state (registration number 4482). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:57:52]] For 271 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 4482. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:58:15]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, a collective proposal signed by the 155 people's deputies of Ukraine on the application of the special procedure for the second reading of draft legislation, provided for in article 119 pr. The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, as discussed in the second reading of the draft Law on Registration Number 5431 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. Let's go to the vote. Prepare for the vote, please. What discussion? It's there. Last time we talked, yeah, let's talk this time. Okay. Please. Yes, then let's vote just in case. I'll bet the vote on the proposal to have a brief discussion. Please vote. [[14:59:40]] For 231 Decision taken. Is there a need for initiating this letter? No, it's not. Then we sign up for a discussion, two factions: two for, two for, two against. Please, Bujansky Maxim Arkadyovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u107	Colleagues, let's not waste time and determine how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u108	Thank you, Maxim Arkadyovich. Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, "European solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u109	May I have the floor to Arthur Gerasimov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u110	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you what this bill is about. You remember that this is the Antimonopoly Committee that has already failed in this room. What's the point? Because the Antimonopoly Committee was trying to give functions that would do it there, I don't know, worse than the D.B.I. Everyone remembers that they could even get searches as a method of influencing entrepreneurs and businesses and so on and so forth. As they try to call it Euro-Integration, in no way does it refer to Euro-Integration. Of course, many changes have been made. But did they remove the key items related to possible abuses? No, it's not. They're in there. And really now, by voting on this special procedure, we can open the door to a very serious creation of such a monster, which is going to be another nightmare of an enterprise. Don't we have enough tax dollars to do now? And the second moment is relative to the special procedure. I call on everyone not to support it now, because everyone remembers that when a bank bill was adopted in this convening, this special procedure was specifically adopted only under this bill in the gentlemen's agreement and in the words of the Presidium that it would be used once. So far, dear colleagues, I just want you to see that it's no longer used one, not the other, and not even the third time. It's, as a minimum, I'll try to find such an easy word, unfairly. So it's not enough that the bill itself is very bad, it's corrupt and it leads to abuse, and it's also a special procedure that's being applied, well, let's be honest, given the normal human relationship, it's being applied illegally right now. Therefore, I propose that everyone vote in red, or at least abstain in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u112	Please, "Deliverance of Ukraine" by Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u114	Please give it to me, Murmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, today we see how many new law enforcement agencies have been created in Ukraine. But just as the old did not work, so did the new ones, we do not see any decisive results. Not because they are many or few, but because they may not work, few competent people work there or do not want to work there. The Antimonopoly Committee is under consideration. Enough of the authority he has today and should be used simply. Have we seen any investigations today, either at prices or at tariffs or at gas or elsewhere? There's nothing. Giving additional powers, which even at times are greater than those of law enforcement, I don't think that's the way we should go. Today, we need to put competent government experts on the Antimonopoly Committee, and it will work. And giving him the authority of law enforcement is a stupid and wrong way to go. We're not going to support this bill, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Yuri Pavlenko, Platform for Life and Peace. Yuri Alexiovich! Yuri Alexiovich Pavlenko! Give someone a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u117	Dear Chairman, please pass the word to Alexander Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u118	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich of the rostrum, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u119	Thank you. My fellow dignitaries, I would like to draw your attention to the essence of this bill and to one extremely unpleasant norm that is in this bill. Thus, in the basic body of the bill it was written that the head and superior head of the Antimonopoly Committee would receive a salary (pay attention!) 30 living minimums for working persons That's 78,000, that's good. But what do we see in the comparative table of the second reading? This figure increases and is made by a representative of the ruling monopoly of up to 90 living minimums. So we raise the salary to 234 thousand dollars to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, and then we go down to 85 and so on. So these numbers aren't much lower. Of course, the country’s wages must be dignified. But I would like to point out that in a country where there are at least 6,000 500 dollars, there are 234 thousand dollars to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee and other representatives slightly lower, I suggest, just considering that we are dealing with issues of consideration and special procedures, and further define those amendments and reject the corresponding amendments of the ruling majority representatives, which make it impossible to raise this shameful increase in such a difficult time for the country, when the budget deficit is greater than all the government budget revenues, when we have borrowed in extremely high amounts -- 1.7 trillion dollars, and we voted with you for that budget. In my view, it is necessary to raise the minimum fixed income, the minimum wage, and the minimum cost of living for working persons, which is 2,000, 600 dollars. And not set them at 90 to make sure we have special people. So please note this norm and more, officials, do not make such suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u121	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you need to decide whether you want to invest in the Ukrainian economy or if you're creating another not even forceful structure, but a terrorist structure that's just going to be the whole business of scheming, and having powers that are extraordinary. That's why there are more than a thousand rights to this bill. And instead of noting that these amendments and so many of them indicate that this law is unacceptable and that it needs to be seriously corrected, you're using a special procedure that in general nullifies the right of deputies to amend, discuss, and forcefully break through the knee of parliament under a bill that contradicts the strategic interests of Ukraine and the development of the economy. So take off the special procedure and follow the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u122	Thank you. Jaroslav Železniak, Voice. Colleagues, this is the closing statement by Jaroslav Ivanovich, so ask him to come to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I have such a question, not in fact, but in form. So you're doing a short procedure so that we don't have to go through with the rights. I've passed a lot of lines, I wouldn't stretch, honestly. Have you seen how many rights are counted? 566 are fully accounted for, 105 is partial, and 101 is editorial. So we can raise 797 rights even in a reduced procedure. What's the problem now that you're solving this procedure? You have a law that's so blocked, yes. Each item that is included in the reduced procedure can be raised in a calm manner. So, frankly, before making such decisions, you would go to the right-wing authors and ask who would insist. For example, I wasn't going to insist on my work, and I wanted to see the final law and see why it is. Now, with this approach, you have shown that you will be so blocked by the bill, yes. Why are we voting and wasting our time right now, I honestly don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u124	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Colleagues, take your seats, please, let's go to the vote, to the decision-making process. Thus, according to article 119, prime. The Supreme Council of Ukraine's regulations put to the vote the proposal of 155 Ukrainian national deputies to apply a special procedure for the second reading of the bill in the consideration of the bill for registration 5431: to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please vote. [[15:09:50]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. The decision is not taken. Initiators can try this process again. Dear colleagues, we need to return to a meeting of one of the committees that did not take place fully during the previous recess, and now. [[B in m in s a l in]] About the breakup? Now the break, then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Let's now vote on what we don't discuss, and then we'll call it a break. Come on, yeah, that's right. Yes, colleagues, we have 8208 the following bill, the draft decree on the execution by the chiefs of military administration of the population in the Kharkiv area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. There is already a committee decision on this and the next bill, so we can vote. I propose to include in the agenda of the day a bill under registration number 8208. Please vote. [[15:11:24]] For 264 Decision taken. I propose to take the entire Order for Registration 8208 with the necessary technical legal amendments. Please vote. [[15:11:49]] For 272 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. I suggest you go to the next Order at Registration 8209. Draft Decision on the execution by the Chiefs of Military Administration of Human Settlements in the Herson area of powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. I suggest you include questions in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[15:12:27]] For 278 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, in general, the Order (registration No. 8209) on the implementation by the heads of military administration of the population in the Herson area of the powers provided for in the second part of article 10 of the Law on the Legal Regime of the State of War, to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[15:12:59]] For 279 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next. Project Registration Order 8179. Draft Decision on the renaming of the city of Novograd Volinsky Novograd Volinsky district of Žitomir district. I propose that the draft regulation be adopted as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[15:13:37]] For 260 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next Order 8180, also without discussion. The draft Order on the Rename of the Novograd Wallin Region of the Žitomir Region proposes to be adopted as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[15:14:08]] For 266 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. We welcome the inhabitants of Zvägel and Zwegel district. The following project, Registration Order 8210: The release of the French Jury Alexanderovich appears to be a member of the Central Electoral Commission. We agreed without discussion, too. I propose that you accept this ruling as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please vote. [[15:14:52]] For 273 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Excuse me, Yuri Olegovich's for misinformation. Colleagues, I'm calling a 10-minute recess. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Smart? Well, it's a break, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Break, we have a break for the committee. We have a nonstop session, and we can break it off whenever we want. There's three questions left, we'll get to them right away. May I speak to Dmitri Alexanderovich from the procedure? But we're on a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u125	Alexander Sergiyovich, you're out of your jurisdiction. You cannot take a break because you have taken part in this session. Read the Rules, the Green Book, on your left. As chairman of this session, you have already taken a recess. You can't double announce it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u126	It's very contradictory, Dmitri Alexanderovich. We've got one sitting, I've already taken ten breaks during this time, and Ruslan Alexiyovich has taken two dozen, but in one, standing session. I don't think that's it. Dmitri Alexanderovich, come back, we'll discuss the personnel issue together, say your position. Let's ask the Budget Committee to meet immediately where you're supposed to meet.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u127	Invite the national deputies to the hall, we'll continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u128	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. I'm going to ask the factions and groups to invite their national deputies into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take our seats so we can see how many of us there are to continue our work. There are three more questions, three or four questions left, and we have implemented a two - day plan, respected colleagues. A two-way plan, you can imagine, in one day. So let's take, let's finish this work day. I ask the factions and groups to invite their national deputies. Dear colleagues, while they are still meeting, there is a proposal, let's vote, we have a question of creating a temporary commission of inquiry. There's no objection to looking at it now? You don't? I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. What happened? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, no objection to voting the TSC? Arthur! Fellow dignitaries, 5196: Draft Decree on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Corruption in State Enterprises, Institutions and Organizations of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Wait a second. Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please, from the procedure, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u129	Ruslan Alexiyovich, this question came to us unexpectedly, it wasn't discussed on the Conciliation Council, I don't understand how it got here. But if it's done, okay, most of it's done, I mean, it's voluntary, yeah. But the question is, it's the last one in the daytime. If you would like to consider it immediately, please ask 226 about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Are you insisting? I just asked if there was any objection, no one said. You said you had an objection, fine. Dear colleagues, I propose to change the order of the day today, the order of the day, and now to consider question 5196. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please take your seats, now every vote is very important. And I ask all runners, marathoners to take your seats, so it's more convenient to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose to move on to question 5196. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:50:44]] For 209 It didn't work. All right, so we're not going to, we're not going to end up looking at it. Dear colleagues, next bill 5818. Dear colleagues, there is an even better offer – to announce a recess. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules. We didn't come in, I just said the number, but I didn't say we were passing. Arthur Volodymyrovich. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to consider the matter of the agenda, 15:51, we agreed until 4:00. By the time we're 16, we can't even consider another bill, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Therefore, the day - to - day consideration of matters has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We're working on it until we're in full victory. And the glory of Ukraine!
