ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear national MPs, dear colleagues, today is the day when we have to open a new session in accordance with the Constitution. So before the opening of the next eighth session, I would like to emphasise the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the beginning of the plenary session, its passage and the decisions that have been taken in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. I ask all national MPs, government representatives, to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our nation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our orders to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and the "Organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022" proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with part one of article 26 of the Supreme Council Rules, before opening the first session of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, we need to register with the electronic system. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. I would like to remind you that once the login is started, you need to hold the sensor button on the green pros button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the registration is complete. Dear colleagues, please prepare, we're registering before the opening of the new session. Take your seats. It's a registration. We're pushing for it. Just green. Friends, once again, it's only green now, because it's a registration. Ready? People's deputies please register. [[12:05:16]] There are 231 national deputies registered in the hall. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the honourable national deputies to the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly and its plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declare closed. At the same time, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly and its first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declare open. Let's start with the eighth session of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Heroim Slava! The country’s distinguished national deputies have been carrying on for more than half a year a large-scale criminal aggression by the Russian Federation against our state. Ukraine is firmly and firmly fighting not only for the happy future of the home earth but also for the entire democratic civilization, for the world to remain a place of law, not the right to power. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of our heroes who died in the wars of Ukraine, all peaceful citizens who became victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes before the opening of the day’s consideration of issues of order to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I'm asking representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. The word is given to the People's Deputy, Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Bezgin Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u3	Vitaly Bezgin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Actually, over the last six months, I've been talking a lot about unity from the rostrum, and I think that unity should be in the hall today. In fact, when our Armed Forces fight against Russian invaders on the front, they certainly do not raise questions about different political approaches. The same should be true of us, especially when we choose our nation against the Russian invader. Unity now on the political and diplomatic front, it has to be about a few questions. The first question that we, as a Parliament, have certainly responded in the context of attempts to initiate, so-called pseudo-eferendums in the new temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. But I think they're going to give the Armed Forces a key shot, which is why the Russians are changing their plans in Hersonian right now. But similarly, I think that our unity with you should be on the question, let's say, of reducing the comfort of being citizens of Russia, including on the basis of the issues that are in the agenda today. Of course, the Russians, who live their comfortable lives, are not particularly concerned about the daily loss of human life, children, women, and the destruction of infrastructure. But the question that affects their lives and their own comfort, including the comfort of traveling, has, in principle, a trigger. So today, I urge everyone to be the only one to vote on the Order to refer to all European partners, in principle, to cancel those visas issued directly to the Russians, which are 10 million, including the termination of any agreements on, in fact, the granting of visas. I hope that we will show wisdom here, we will not play politics and we will support this draft decision, and we will say our parliamentary word. And yet, the Russians will finally begin to suffer not from the closure of international networks but from the fight against their criminal regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Pippa Natalia Romanovna. I understand it's Alexander Ustinov. Please, Ustina Alexandra.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, you know that our faction has been supporting all initiatives aimed at defending and protecting our country since the beginning of the war. But I very much ask that you pay attention now to the two bills that stand in order today and tomorrow. Because, unfortunately, they have nothing to do with the defense of the state and, unfortunately, they may create problems for us and our international partners. First of all, I'm talking about Bill 7654, which is changing the terms of the competition and the demands of the leaders of anti-corruption bodies. Yesterday there was a statement by representatives of the G7 asking Ukraine and Parliament not to vote on this bill, because this raises a general question about the possible election of the future Director of the NAB. You know how many problems we had at the international level because of the appointment of the head of the SAP, for which I am very grateful to the new Attorney General for his appointment. But let us not go back to the rakes that the previous authorities came upon when the conditions of the contest were changed for specific people. The NABU leader’s competition has already been announced, that is, the commission already created. Now let's not change, as we did before, in order for the godfather to become a Henprosecutor, to change and clear the requirements for this person to have a higher legal education. Now let's not just clear up certain requirements for anti-corruption leaders and make them dependent on certain political forces. I'm also very much asking the room to take note of Bill 5616, which is called "The Change of Geographical Names." This has nothing to do with geographical names; there are two adjustments that now want to bring back smoking. I'd like to point out that you're all told what it's about potassium. It's not about the kalyans. If you're voting on this bill of 20 and 21, we're going to be able to smoke again in every catering facility in the hotels. We have long become a civilized country in which this is forbidden, where children can breathe normally in the air, rather than sit down to eat pizza and breathe from the stench of cigarettes. Now, let's not go back to the disgraceful rules that tobacco companies are now meltin'. So I'm very much asking you to pay attention to this and not support this bill as it is. And once again, it's not about potassium, it's about bringing back smoking wherever it was allowed, more loyally, banned since 2012, 10 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u7	Please, Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u8	Please convey to the leader of the political power "European Solidarity" Peter Dustenk the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u9	Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! What does Ukraine now live on? One unifying word is counterattack. Counterattack in the south, counterattack in the east, in the rest of the positions -- no step back. And there is nothing more important to us than the support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is an upgrade to the armory's counterattack, the supply of missiles, the supply of new artillery, and all of this takes money. On September 11, the enemy planned to hold a referendum in all occupied areas. Our Armed Forces have destroyed these plans of a mad dictator and will tear down the new dates he will try to set. This was made possible by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And the real measure of everyone's actions, and more in this room, how to help the Armed Forces. Unity is to be demonstrated by our Hall. But unity is not in words and unity is not that we will avoid a sober assessment of the situation that will allow all of us to make the right decisions. Unity is a common solution. And now we're being asked to increase the excise rate, which will slow down the economy, which will create problems for farmers, which will raise prices, because before we vote, the price on the charges has already started to rise. And instead of giving up this crazy idea, they're trying to move it in the room. Why? Maybe to give the army extra money? No, it's not. In order to restore "great theft." Not only is it dangerous in connection with corruption but it is dangerous in view of the fact that if it is returned to previous practices, partners will not give money to Ukraine. And so we demand that this shameful practice be stopped. Stop putting asphalt in Butch, where buildings have not been rebuilt to go and spend the winter. This is unacceptable! Let's stop! We do it to unite us all, and together we move to victory! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u10	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u12	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to yesterday's information that Russian President Vladimir Putin approved a new foreign policy doctrine based on the concept of the Russian world on Monday. This is a concept that, six months ago, was the basis of his humanitarian doctrine. At the moment, this doctrine must be fully legalized by extremist aggressive plans in the world of the Russian Federation. Even though the application for soft power is made, you and I understand that it is really a soft force. This is the soft force that destroys Ukrainian schools and thousands of them. This is the soft force that kills Ukrainian children. This is the soft force that kills Ukrainians. But we are firm because we actually have our soft power -- and this is our culture, this is our memory, this is our education. In fact, these concepts are key to building the immunity of the Ukrainian nation. And in my speech from the "For the Future" MP group, I want to stress that while the Ukrainian Armed Forces are defending Ukraine on the military front, we have to stand up for both our education and our culture. Unfortunately, we can see that education is in a zone of risk and a zone of great turbulence. The day - to - day online training revealed a host of problems. This is despite the fact that the training committee, together with the Ministry of Education, has done great work to provide online education, but unfortunately the technical possibilities are far from being quality. So I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm going to the Ministry of Education, I'm going to the Budget Committee, so that all the financial, economic opportunities are invented to organize and provide quality online learning for students. Because think about it, colleagues, 2 million Ukrainian schoolchildren learn remotely, learn without the basics of the Internet. Because there was a great Starlink initiative for the army, on the outside front, we call for this equipment to be acquired and for schools where the most Ukrainians learn remotely. We think that online learning is only possible when there is a quality Internet. So if we care about Ukrainian immunity, if we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u14	Thank you. The word is given to Volodymyr Yuriovich Aresonkov, a group called "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, the political autumn begins, and the MP group "Trust" calls all to fruitful systemic work for our state and for such a long-awaited victory. Clearly, by prioritizing the coming period, we emphasize the importance of laws that are aimed at national security, the security of our country, the establishment of law and discipline, the fight against corruption and organized crime. We thank our defenders and our defenders daily, but the main task today is to provide all the necessary Ukrainian troops, the Territorial Defense Force, starting with modern weapons, with timely payment of money. If I have already mentioned the formation of territorial defence, I would like to point out that there is a need for legislative regulation on the activities of the voluntary formations of the territorial communities. They're created all over the country today, but the issue of their actions, in particular the possession of weapons, the joint activity with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the individual financial and economic issues need to be addressed, so we've joined the work on the relevant bill. Another important topic is to do everything possible today for the invaders, collaborators and their aiders to be punished for the crimes they committed in Ukraine against the civilian population. In this context, the "Trust" MP supports the adoption of Bill 7728 amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve cooperation with the International Criminal Court in the conduct of criminal proceedings in Ukraine. It's important. We have to provide all the conditions for international criminal prosecutors, our law enforcement agencies, who will prepare appropriate materials for international courts. And the question of economic security. This week, the activities of the new law enforcement body, the Bureau of Economic Security, were actively discussed. Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP group is calling for an end to discussions on which committee should cooperate with this law enforcement body. Today, we all need to do what is necessary to ensure that this law enforcement body is fully operational. Within a month, we will listen to the manager’s report and accept appropriate recommendations. I wish everyone a productive system of work. Trust MP, Vladimir Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u16	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Puzanov Alexander Hennadiyovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u17	In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the problems faced by our fellow countrymen who have abandoned their actions because of the war. With estimates from the United Nations refugee agency, more than 7 million of our fellow countrymen left Ukraine on August 30. Of these, nearly 4 million have already received temporary protection in foreign lands. About 90 percent of them are women and children. The most Ukrainians have been granted temporary protection and are in Poland, Germany, and the Czech Republic, where almost 2 million of our citizens now live. We are all grateful to the European countries that have granted shelter to Ukrainians. Despite the support of local authorities, however, our fellow countrymen face a number of challenges: employment, housing, education, taxes, and so forth. The school year began, and a large number of migrant children went to foreign schools, and overseas schools would be taught according to their curriculum. It's very disturbing that we don't know how many of them will decide to stay abroad after the war. Thus, even now, the State must ensure that conditions are conducive to the distance and additional training of Ukrainian children for an adapted Ukrainian teaching program in order to preserve our children’s relationship with the Fatherland. In addition, there is a six - year period, after which our fellow countrymen, who work remotely and pay taxes in Ukraine, will be regarded as tax residents of the respective countries and pay taxes from their Ukrainian income abroad. Not to be overlooked are our internal immigrants. In Ukraine nearly 3 million people received such status. Sadly, the vast number of people are no longer to return to, and their homes are destroyed. The state has simplified the status of internally displaced persons, and that is a good thing. At the same time, many of them are still not sufficiently aware of their rights and of the help they can receive from our State or from international partners. There was no problem with the excessive cost of renting and the difficulty of finding housing for internally displaced persons. Individually, it is a matter of getting such people to work. According to statistics, the total number of officially registered unemployed persons in Ukraine has long gone beyond 300,000. Most of the people who come back from abroad are out of work and need employment. Therefore, it is important to save, restore and create new jobs, support the process of refugee returns, ensure their reintegration and employment in the economy and self-employment. Dear colleagues, the state should not forget its citizens. Let's support the internally displaced.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u18	Please give the word Nemiri Grigory Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u19	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Between the plenary meetings of Julia Timoshenko and I took part in a conference held in Portugal. I want to tell you a little bit about the results of our meeting. First. In general, to understand the scale and how important it is to show this scale. In Portugal, we said that since the 14th year, the territory occupied by the aggressor, the Russian Federation, is more than the entire territory of Portugal, and our population is one and a half times larger than the entire population of Portugal. During this important conference, we met with the Secretary-General of the International Organization for Migration, an organization that is part of the United Nations institutions. And we solved two problems, we put these two problems together. First. This is a harmonization of approaches and the provision of Ukrainian refugees in all countries under the care of the International Organization for Migration, particularly in the countries of the European Union. It doesn't have to be that in one country they get a little bit of money, and in others they get more or less decent support. We agreed to lobby at the European Union level to ensure that our refugees are provided with dignity in the countries of the European Union. And the second important question is that winter is coming. The international organization is concerned about how the Ukrainians who have left their homes will survive this period. And that's why we proposed, and this was supported by the Secretary-General on migration issues, an organization to get the government of Ukraine to provide, in the shortest possible time, an expanded analysis of the housing needs of Ukrainian citizens who do not have housing. This refers to the description of the sanatoriums, the small hotels located around and in the areas most affected by aggression. Today, we are asking the government of Ukraine to have this analysis prepared within 10 days, and the migration organization is ready to make financial provision for all Ukrainians who are suffering and need to get this housing. And the second. This is an example of a soft force that we often underestimate. During this conference, a scholarship was announced for girls, Ukrainian girls, families of forced displaced persons and refugees to study at Portugal's most prestigious business school. It's part of a consortium of 38 schools, and we hope that soon our refugee girls will be in these schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u20	Intruder Natalia Igorovna, deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Ephimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to a very important question. Thanks to the dedication and heroism of our soldiers, we were able to break the aggressor’s plans for the blitzkrieg and translate the campaign into a strategic struggle that has a clear logic of victory. The Ukrainian spirit and the heroic Armed Forces have already been the key factors in this victory. Our task with you is to make the Ukrainian rear as powerful as we are, the third element of our long-distance victory. In a similar situation when confronted with Hitler's Fascism, Winston Churchill said, "When you see that you're going through hell, keep going." This involves three necessary tasks in the area of the restoration of Ukrainian rear. First. Displacement of industry. The other one. It's being rebuilt if it's going to be a state of war. And the third. Restoring industries that will produce scarce production for our army. We've already shown that we can arrange for the transport of businesses and restore production actually from the wheels. The site opened up a second breath for the domestic industry. The President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander-in-Chief, made proposals for the drafting of Bill 7605. This shows the demand of the belligerent State for the final adoption of the law. Thank you, colleagues, for your support in this vital issue. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for speeches is over. People's deputies, I stress the need for sustained compliance with security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine once again and ask for further information on the beginning of the plenary session, on its run and on the decisions taken in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. I also ask national MPs, representatives of the government, to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of the State. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We are about to begin our consideration of the agenda. You will be asked about the order of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. In accordance with part one of article 20 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the agenda of the Supreme Council is approved by the Supreme Council for each session. I inform you that the Conciliation Board of the Deputies and Groups discussed and approved the draft agenda for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. In accordance with part one of article 21 and part one of article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am introducing a draft agenda for the eighth session for approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to consider the matter with discussion. In accordance with article 22 of the Rules, the matter is dealt with in a simplified manner. That's why I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Maxim Evgenovich Dirdin, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u23	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a word to Frolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u24	Please, Frolov Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I suggest we establish the order of the day session because we have no other choice. If we don't confirm this session now, every day during this eighth session we have to put every question and every bill to the vote. So please back up, and let's get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u26	Thank you. The word is given to Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u27	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there are a number of bills that, in my opinion, require an immediate response to this session room. These are not only laws that concern Ukraine but also Europe’s energy security. Our faction is already addressing what session of energy security - related issues. In fact, it is a set of laws related to key issues of gas supply, gas regulation, and gas distribution. Unfortunately, we are again in a situation where we begin to resolve these issues during the winter. The other one. This is a list of energy - related issues, namely the regulation of the price distribution of electricity. Without these key issues, neither the government nor the government’s profile ministries will ever be able to bring the system in order. Regrettably, these questions are not put into the agenda again. There are also a number of issues that concern key positions related to collaborationism. Regrettably, we are faced with the fact that the uncertainty of this issue, the fact that the loose language is in existing legislation, allows us to completely avoid those who have gone to direct cooperation with the enemy, the responsibility. We believe that these key issues should be in order of the day, and we would very much like to review the previous decisions, and still include our questions in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u28	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. The word is given to the National Deputy Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u30	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u31	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Still, I hope that the speeches at the Supreme Council will be seen, and I would like to hear what I am saying today. Though there is little hope. You know, with regard to this agenda of the day session, yes, indeed, if a new session opens, we have to vote for it. But there's one question that I'm constantly asking about. How can you vote on any document without even reading it? Look, this is 190 pages, this is this document. Today the faction leaders received this document this morning, 190 pages. Were we able to learn that? No, it's not. Do we want to learn it? Yes. Because there are many laws that we believe should be included. But I'm going to tell you a terrible secret, maybe not everyone knows, there are three parts in this agenda of the day. What is included, what is included with certain limitations, and what is not included. Does anyone know his laws in which of these parts? I think 99 percent don't know, and they don't listen right now, they don't care, especially the monotony. That's why, colleagues, I want to urge everyone not to maintain this order of the day session today. We will vote tomorrow by studying, and today we will vote on the agenda, according to the Rules, on this particular day, and we will go to work today. Tomorrow, after studying the document, after we have finally read it, we will do so. And the next. I would like to say that the next decision we will vote without discussing the activities of the Supreme Council, but I sincerely believe that the parliamentary requests and the time of the government should be returned to our work. Because we don't even see ministers discussing important issues in their direction. The MP's requests are completely suspended, and that's unacceptable, because no one canceled the control function. That's why I'm asking you not to vote for the second order. And about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u32	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we first accept the order of the day session under military conditions. And without mutual trust, there's nothing to do here. So I think there's nothing to talk about, so I need to make sure that we get to the vote as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich is still in office, and then we vote in favour of the agenda. Let me remind you that it is submitted by the committees and approved by the Conciliation Council. It was introduced this morning and was introduced to the hall today. Please, Jurchishin, and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, it is not possible to turn such an important vote into formality. And so I fully agree that it takes more time to study the agenda, that is, the proposals that have been made by the agreed committees. But I'd like to draw attention to other aspects that we keep silent about. And these aspects were partly spoken by colleagues and European Solidarity and Fatherland and other factions. This is a proportional representation of laws initiated by both the majority and the opposition. It's a recommendation, actually, Pete Cox, which is what the working group is currently working on under the leadership of Mr. Korneyenk's first vice-speciesman. We can implement this recommendation. Let us do this in time of war, demonstrating unity. Proportional representation from the number of deputies in the factions of the laws in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I propose to accept the entire draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Eighth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 7740). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, well, I'm tired of inviting you to work. Let's go to the vote. Again, maybe someone, yeah, didn't hear the offer. I propose to accept the entire draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Eighth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 7740). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:46]] For 260 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we agreed immediately on the next draft of the decision to vote without discussion. Therefore, I propose to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, in general, the regulation on certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session of the state of war (registration No. 7736). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:28]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a deal too. Oh, she's on her way. I'm sorry. The following bills are 7710 and 7733. I'm going to make the first suggestion to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:02]] For 325 Decision taken. I propose that we both consider these issues by means of a simplified procedure, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council: by talking together, by voting separately. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:30]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, right away: two in favor, two in favour? The authors will be, won't they? Okay. Please invite the author of the first ruling Klimpush-Cincadze Ivan Orestovna, then the author of the second ruling of Kachura Alexander Anatoliyovich, then two in favour, two in favor, against, then we vote. Please, Ivanna Orestovna. Where's Ivanna Orestovna? [[B in m in s a l in]] And I don't know if you're the author of this decision. Four co-authors, huh? Please, Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, for the first time in the history of the United Nations at the opening of the UN General Assembly, will not receive a visa from the foreign secretary of Mr. Lavrov's murderous country, a war criminal involved in the war in Ukraine, and all the so-called diplomatic gang of the Russian Federation. And it's actually a very good example that not only Putin, but not just his gang, not only those specific Russian military officers are responsible for the killings, the rape in Ukraine, but every Russian who supports this power, every Russian who has voted and cemented the dictatorship of Putin, has to be responsible for the primary responsibility of getting a carbage (in paws), that is, not allowing them to travel, to use the benefits of civilized countries. And we strongly support the movement that our closest friends and partners have just begun: the Baltic countries, the other countries of the European Union, which have declared that the Mandras of the European Union are not a privilege -- this should be a high responsibility and respect for the principles of the European Union. So we suggest that we now accept an application to our closest partners and neighbors, with the call to restrict the Russians to tourist, medical, shopping visas, let them sit at home. What was our surprise, the co-authors of European Solidarity, when this statement was supported by both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the committee of profile -- and all of a sudden, we see that this statement, where the whole blocks of our application are, came from another authorship. In principle, in a civilized society where the visas we're fighting for are called plagiarism. But in this room, you know, we have a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u38	Please invite the author of the second decree that we will consider, Kachuru Alexandra Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u39	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, colleagues, this draft ruling, which I'm presenting, was worked together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a deputy from all the totally factions and MPs were able to sign this decision. I understand what was in your time. I understand that you're the reason this is happening. But sometimes when it comes to the state’s position, you have to be aware of it. In fact, I want to tell you that we experienced the aggression of the Russian Federation in 2014 and during the annexation of Crimea, when Russian troops invaded Donbas. Contrary to the rules, in violation of international law, contrary to all the customs of war, the Russian Federation launched a full - scale invasion on February 24. Our people are killed, and Ukrainian children and women are killed and raped. This is supported by the Russian people, Russian citizens, because their research is close. Between 60 and 80 percent of Russian citizens support Putin’s criminal orders for the destruction and genocide of the Ukrainian people. Therefore, we need to be firm in this matter. If they want to do tourism, they can only do tourism in their friendly North Korea, and there they can do it, doing business and tourism. Tourism is not terrorism, and the whole world needs to know that. That's why we're talking to our colleagues, more than 30 people's deputies supported this draft decree from different political factions, and we're asking them to put a dot on this issue, and Russia and the Russian people were isolated, as they deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, who will it be from the committee? Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the committee considered Decree 7710 yesterday at a committee meeting because it had been registered a week ago, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve it as a basis and as a whole with the Committee's rights. And the committee was surprised to learn that yesterday afternoon, after considering this decision, an alternative decision was registered because the authors were wrong, the first decision the authors were of European Solidarity. And that's 7733.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u42	Are you speaking from the committee or from the faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u43	From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u44	Yes, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u45	And by the decision of the committee today, in an abject manner, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, we have also considered this decree, noting that it repeats part, just word for word, first order of action. Thus, the committee’s decision regarding 7,733 was the following. In general, without objecting to the adoption of the above-mentioned draft decision, the Committee proposes to take into account the fact that the draft regulation of the same substance has already been registered and recommended by the Committee for approval as a whole, and invites the Ukrainian National Deputies to determine how to vote during the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to the discussion of these two draft regulations. Please. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction. Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u47	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, representatives of the majority and representatives of the opposition, I have a huge request for you: at least when we are working on an international matter, we will be united. Today it is a shame and a horror to read that today in order of the day two decrees, two statements, are absolutely identical in fact, which we vote for only a variety of co-authorities. It seems to me that when such initiatives arise, we all together, regardless of the faction, except for one enemy, have to sign and vote it without discussion, because these are the apperios who understand the subject. What we see today in the daytime is, as for me, shameful and very embarrassing. If you think the war is over, because in Kiev you're relaxed, if you think that what the media is writing about counterinvasion corresponds to absolute reality, and we're going to Herson and we're going to Crimea, you're also unfortunately wrong. Let's focus and go back to the fact that we are living in a state of war, and some things are completely incorrigible, incomprehensible and far from playing politics when it comes to one voice outside a state that is fighting. Of course, the subject and the one raised in two applications and the ban on the issuance of Russian Federation travel visas should have been on us from the end of February to early March when we talked about closing the sky, because it's obvious and logical. I am convinced that one of you who is participating in international meetings is in pain when it comes to the fact that it is only Putin's war against Ukraine. Sadly, our strategic partners talk about this. But they forget the statistics when 88 percent of the citizens of the Russian Federation support the so-called special operation -- the invasion of Ukraine and the liberation of us from our state. Let's be as common in our ideas as the Moscow example gives us, the only one. To fight against us. Let's also be alone in the war with them and speak with one voice, otherwise it'll just split us apart before we win the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u48	Please, Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u50	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u51	Colleagues, it's important that Parliament remains a serious player in our interaction with the world. And you and I are getting serious results when we act together and when we speak with one voice to the world. We've seen how we've achieved candidate status in the European Union. And we always get more when we insist together on additional weapons, on tax economic aid, financial assistance to Ukraine at this difficult time. And we're going to go to that 7710, and 7733, we're going to go to the world absolutely with a legitimate demand to stop the Russians from hanging around Europe while they're killing Ukrainians. And so we don't agree with Chancellor Scholtz's position, who thinks it's Putin's war, because it's not Putin's war, but all the Russians who torture, kill, rape, destroy our country and our citizens. And we demand the ban on Schengen and national visas from the European Union for all Russians to stop having fun in Europe and to start taking responsibility for this terrible war. Because Putin is the answer to a request from the Russian people that demands this violence, including against the Ukrainians. But, colleagues, really, I'm very sorry to say that we have two virtually identical decisions. And just because the authors of the first decision were representatives of our faction, the majority of the people couldn't stand and endure unity by supporting this first simple decision. Colleagues, stop pretending to be pseudonymous. We need unity to win both Putin and Russia and this invasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u52	The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, to our conviction that as the process of suspending and banning visas for citizens of the Russian Federation in the European Union will be implemented, any official of the European Union and citizens of the European Union will also show himself and to the world, to what extent he realizes that this war does not apply only to Ukraine, that the war that takes place in the territory of the Ukrainian State concerns any European, because the Russian President and the Russian army, and the Russian Federation, have not only invaded Ukraine's sovereignty, they have also invaded the sovereignty of the European Union, because, by rephrasing the words of the Prime Minister of Poland, we do not recall in history that in 41st, 42nd and 43rd years, German tourists traveled to the territory of the European countries. They were "traveling" (in paws), but it certainly wasn't for tourist purposes. And we appeal here to the historical memory of both the French and the Greeks and other representatives of the European community, not only the Eastern European community, but also the Western European community, which lost their sovereignty before the Nazi invasion. Today, the invasion was repeated. And this war is about anyone. And today we need to understand that it provides visas to citizens of the Russian Federation and awareness to every citizen of the Russian Federation that he is an accomplice to this crime, which Putin has committed today regarding the sovereignty of the independent Ukrainian state, and in this way has violated any understanding of international law in Europe and the world. The enemy must be punished. And the European Union, I think, should be in solidarity with Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u54	Please give the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Petty Officer, please. And then, I take it, there's going to be a Bakunec and a Mezencev, and we're going to vote. People's deputies would like to be invited to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, dear protectors! Today in the Supreme Council, we offer to do three things and to direct our European and all international partners. First. Avoid allowing the territory of the European Union and other civilized countries of the aggressor country. One. The other one. Cancel all available Schengen visas for all, I repeat, for all officials, prosecutors, judges, military, Russian Federation special forces as a country aggressors for aggression against Ukraine. Third. We propose once and for all to determine that an aggressor country and its citizens cannot and will not travel freely to those countries that they threaten with nuclear weapons, to those countries that they threaten to destroy and still fight Ukraine as a candidate of the European Union. Similarly, we understand and encourage our European partners to realize that we are taking such a step in caring for their safety. No one controls the issuance of passports to the Russian Federation, no one has access to the database, no one has access to the biometrics of Russian citizens. And that means that the uncontrollable issuance of the aggressor country passports and the targeting of agents and diversors threatens the European Union member states themselves. So our move today is the right one, our step today is at the right time. The only call for us to do this together with our European partners is to prohibit the entry into the EU of citizens of the aggressor country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u56	Heroim Slava! Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust". Then Mezentse's Maria and then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u57	Today, the Ukrainian Parliament is calling on the member countries of the European Union not to allow the civilian world of the country's representatives, which is causing death and suffering. Since 2014, Russians have been killing Europeans or not at the heart of Europe, Ukraine. Since February 2022, Russians have been destroying, raping people, Europeans, Ukrainians, and launching missiles into European Ukrainian cities. Such people do not belong in a civilized European world, for they are destroyers, rapists, invaders. So we turn to them not to give them a tourist visa and cancel all the visas that have already been granted so that they do not visit the countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u58	Please, Maria Mezenceva, "Serve of the people," and this will be the final performance. And then I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, Mary.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u59	My friends, President Zelenski recently said that Europe is not a supermarket, and we don't have to turn it into a supermarket, where no matter who comes in. The important thing is that the person who entered should be counted for the goods. Today, the Ukrainian people are reckoned with blood for their freedom, which is the same as the European Union’s project. In 1985 a treaty was signed in the small village of Schengen between all countries, which opened the free movement of people among all countries. Today, the Russian Federation has some 10 million visas issued. Friends, these people are supporting the One Russia Party, supporting Putin, supporting his aggression against our women, children, men, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Today we have been supported by many EU member states. The cancellation of Schengen visas will take place today or tomorrow. The Ukrainian Parliament is.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. As we agreed, we discuss two decisions together, we vote separately. So I'm making my first offer. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. I'll make my first offer. Take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, in general, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the institutions of the European Union and the member countries of the European Union for the cessation of the issuance of visas to citizens of the Russian Federation (registration number of Decree 7710). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:37]] For 324 Decision taken. I also propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the institutions of the European Union, parliaments and governments of its member states on the restriction of the issue of Schengen visas for citizens of the Russian Federation (registration No. 7733). [[B in m in s a l in]] What does the procedure mean? We vote, my friends. Please, Ivanna Orestovna, what are the questions from the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u61	It will be valid to put to the vote just as recommended by the committee, and the committee recommended that it be defined in the room. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u62	The point is that there is no "definition in the room" is the proposal to accept or not accept, and the room is already defined by the vote. There's no such thing as "determining." Imagine, I'm going to make up my mind, people are going to vote in favour. What decision? So this is a question for the committee, how do you determine that? You have a decision to make. Thank you. So once again, I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the institutions of the European Union, parliaments and governments of its member states on the restriction of the issuance of Schengen visas for the citizens of the aggressor State, the Russian Federation (project registration number 7733). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:18]] For 327 Decision taken. Both decisions have been adopted in general with appropriate accounting and technical law. Dear colleagues, we've agreed no further discussion, please don't rise. We have 7605, these are the proposals of the President of Ukraine. That's why I'm here right now. These are the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on optimizing certain issues of forced alienation and the removal of property under the legal regime of martial law. There's an offer. I remind you, we vote on the proposal, then on the proposal. Julia Volodymyrna, we agreed without discussion. Out of procedure, Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, before we push the button, I wanted you to know exactly what you're voting for and what you're doing. More loyally, the proposals you're going to vote about the corporation of the forest economy of Ukraine. I want to understand, first of all, what does this have to do with this bill? And secondly, did they ask the Ukrainian referendum whether they were willing to corporateize the forests and were ready for the Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u64	Julia Volodymyrna, I'm sorry, the procedure is procedure, not understanding. Please turn off the microphone. I'm making an offer. I'm voting on the President's proposal number one. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:04]] For 255 Decision taken. I would like to make a proposal to accept, in general, the President's proposal for Bill 7605. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:33]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general, taking into account the President's proposal. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. We are also next in line without discussion, so please do not leave your seat. And I'm immediately proposing Bill 6489, this is the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine in connection with Ukraine's withdrawal from the Treaty on the International Federation and the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Inter-Governmental Federation. I'd like to make my first suggestion to adopt Bill 6489 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:31]] For 325 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 6489, this is the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in relation to Ukraine's withdrawal from the Agreement on the International Federation and the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Inter-Governmental Federation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:10]] For 332 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill is also uncontested; it's Bill 7719. This is a draft law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the distinction between sports and competition. We agreed, too, without discussion. So I would like to make the first proposal to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of this consideration. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:53]] For 314 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the distinction between sports and competition (registration number 7719). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:20]] For 314 Decision taken. And I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the distinction between sports and competitions (registration number 7719). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:48]] For 317 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill, without discussion, is Bill 7686. Draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine on the conduct of elections to the Presidency of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Presidencies of the National Industrial Academy of Sciences and the Heads of State Institutions during the period of the state of war. I propose to adopt Bill 7686 as the basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:37]] For the 320. Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities on the conduct of elections to the Bureau of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Presidencies of the National Branch Academy of Sciences and the Heads of State Institutions during the period of the state of war (Registration No. 7686). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:12]] For 325 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill is also uncontested; it's Bill 5229. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (to ensure the protection of property rights and other immovable property rights, belonging to children and underprivileged persons). I would like to make a proposal to adopt a draft of Law 5229 in accordance with article 116, part one. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:57]] For 293 I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5229. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:22]] For 267 Decision taken. The following Bill 7685 was also agreed without discussion. This is a draft of the Act amending paragraph 1 of Section II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations. I'm proposing to adopt Bill 7685 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:02]] For 310 Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending paragraph 1 of Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Improvement of the Management and Deregulation of Land Relations, Bill 7685. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:38]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill we're talking about is 7728. But first we have to vote, put in the agenda of the day session the draft Law on Amendments to. [[B in m in s a l in]] I told you, we're talking. Arthur Volodymyrovich, there's an earpiece. I propose to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve cooperation with the International Criminal Court in the conduct of criminal proceedings in Ukraine (registration number 7728). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:16:29]] For 343 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the question of Bill 7728 begins. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:58]] For 311 Decision taken. I'd like to make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure, Bill 7728. Please vote. [[13:17:21]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this bill. Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov, please, the "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I am addressing you on behalf of the committee. We ask you to support this bill. The bill will allow us to strengthen the cooperation of our law enforcement system, including the Attorney General's Office, directly to the Attorney-General's Office with the International Criminal Court. The bill allows for the extension of the scope of cooperation with the International Criminal Court, namely to extend the number of persons who can serve as prosecutors in Ukraine on crimes of an international nature, international crimes, including war crimes, genocide crimes, in particular. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the philosophy of the project is that not only Mr. Karim Khan can exercise the power of prosecutor as prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, but also other persons who are authorized to act in the International Criminal Court, i.e. those who are institutionally assigned to the International Criminal Court. Dear colleagues, I'm sure the time will come when you and I will all see to still ratify the Rome Statute. We are with you a civilized, developed democratic country that is not afraid, properly, of the truth, and can reveal everything to the general public and to the global community. Please support this bill, which will support our law enforcement system within international jurisdiction as well. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u67	Please pass the word to my colleague Alexia Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u68	Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u69	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Our faction supports the adoption of this bill in the first reading, the bill is really important. This is really about expanding our cooperation with the International Criminal Court and international prosecutors. We need to give these opportunities, we need to maximize the involvement of our partner countries and the generally civilized world in investigating and identifying the crimes that have committed and, unfortunately, continue to be committed by the Russian Federation in Ukraine. We need to ask very hard questions about the speedy establishment of an international tribunal over the criminals who committed these crimes. Not only did he rape those who killed directly, but he also raped Russia's senior military and political leadership, led by Putin, for the crime of armed aggression, for the crime of genocide against Ukraine and the Ukrainians. And that's what we have to do, that's what we have to do, that's what we have to do every day and as fast as possible. Time is running out, for over six months now, when this terrible invasion began. We haven't created these mechanisms yet, the tools, they're very important to us. Here we need to enlist the support of all those countries that are with us today in our struggle. I've had a personal conversation on this subject since Liz Trass was Minister of Foreign Affairs of Britain, and today she's the Prime Minister of Britain, and this is very important to us, our partner country. We have to join the countries of the European Union and the United States, all the other countries, because, on the one hand, it's hard for us to do all of this today. Second, we need legitimacy. Thirdly, we have to prove to the world that Russia and Putin are international criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u70	The word is given to Gregory Mikolaiovich Mama, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u71	Dear national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! We still have to support this bill, not in general, but on the basis of the first reading. We will only support it on a basis. Why? The interaction is very fine when it is prescribed by duties and authority, when there is authorization, and not request, are different things. This is the mandate that provides for the interaction and cooperation of the new prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, as well as of those to whom he delegates his powers. This bill, it's the second bill on cooperation with the International Criminal Court, and I think that we still need to coordinate and coordinate it more constructively and comprehensively if we are to make such a decision, as part of the trial, as part of the criminal trial, in order to be more empowered, to appeal to the court and everything else. We support this bill in the first reading, and we will work on it in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u72	Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. And I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, and then we'll go to the vote. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u73	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, the National Deputies! The bill is extremely important. Our task is not only to amend the Criminal Procedural Code regarding the acceptance of activities by an international court, a prosecutor with the position of Attorney General or an authorized person. Next step. We remember from this rostrum the newly elected Attorney General promised to investigate the genocide of the Ukrainian people by the Russians that it would become a reality. It is the war criminals who must be tried in the territory of Ukraine, which will be freed from the racists. And this bill is the first step towards bringing to international standards our legislation on interaction with the International Criminal Court. The next important thing. We need to create all the conditions for law enforcement authorities to document qualitatively the crimes committed by criminals, by racists in Ukraine, so that in the future this will be an evidence base for drawing them to criminal responsibility. International law enforcement agencies must be well-functioning in order to assist with the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities in documenting the international agreements. The "Fatherland" faction will support this bill and we'll be preparing adjustments to improve it for the second reading. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u74	Heroic glory! Please give me another minute. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u75	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, our group is very attentive to the consideration and adoption of this bill. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to accept it, and we need to create all the conditions for international prosecutors, investigators and experts in Ukraine to work with our law enforcement agencies to prepare all the necessary materials for prosecution in a criminal court. And all criminals who committed war crimes, crimes against the civilian population in Ukraine, must be punished. At the same time, we will vote in favour of the first reading. And for the second reading, there are a number of important points that need to be reconciled. That's why our Trust Group supports the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to improve cooperation with the International Criminal Court in the conduct of criminal proceedings in Ukraine (registration number 7728). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:28:00]] For-300 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7728. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:28:27]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The following Bill 7739, draft Decision on some issues regarding the visibility of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:01]] For 226 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, this is a shortcut, this is equal to 150. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we've agreed to a discussion, please sign up: two in favor, two in favor. What? Oh, you want the author to present? Okay, then I invite you to the words of the Ukrainian national deputy Bozkowa Alexander Valeriyovich, the author of the decree. Please. From the place, please, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u77	On February 24, 2022, the Russian Federation launched a large - scale military invasion of Ukraine. Our nation has introduced a state of war, under which the implementation of a single information policy is one of the priority issues of national security. In this regard, it is necessary to regulate the specificity of the visibility of the work of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call and the corresponding work of the state-owned company Parliamentary Television Council. To this end, I propose Decree 7739 that, during the war period, direct broadcasts of open plenary sessions to Parliament may be limited to Parliament's "Council" channel in the interests of national security and security. The other one. To entrust the Council Channel with the creation and broadcast of news and other information materials aimed at implementing decisions to provide a single information policy. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we go two, two, yes? Then we had such national deputies. That record's over, dear fellows, but we signed up. Zari Maxim Valentinovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u79	A request to convey the word of God to Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u80	Alexander the Goddess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u81	Please support and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u82	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u84	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the most popular politician in Ukraine, Boris Johnson, said very precisely the formula of a strong state: this is a strong independent parliament and independent media. This is how Parliamentarianism and freedom of speech are killed by this decree. This is about discrediting Parliament’s work and devalued the work of every national MP, and losing Parliament’s subjectivity in general. We would like to thank the 250 members of the People's Servants who have not signed this disgrace, except for one striker. And it's actually a decision not to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, 500 million dollars are being allocated to the work of the Council Channel. But this decision now offers us not only to show not just broadcasts, but even in writing our adoptions of laws, debates and positions with you. You know, I read carefully the biography of the author of this decree, he's from Mariupul. Thus, by this decree, those who have left Mariupol will never hear the position of the joint parliament when it comes to the need for the release of Azustali’s supporters. By this decree, the people of Mariupol will never hear us fighting for them and urging us not to give visas to the Russians. By this decree, the people of Mariupol will not hear that you and I are trying to protect the Ukrainian army and give it all the necessary authority. And in fact, even the presidency of the Supreme Council was afraid to sign this disgrace that was sent down from the Office of the President and the Ministry of Censorship. Today, the Council TV block has been showing off out-of-office advisors to the President's Office, vice president's chief of staff. It's not just politicians, there's no deputies, there's no parliament. And we will not allow discredit, disrespect, and even the parliament to lose its subjectivity. That's the decision you need. You're not signing it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u86	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group, please. Nestor Ivanovich, the rostrum here, come here. Your expression. Your speech, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, we are now in very difficult circumstances adopting this bill, and we have to get out of the next one. The Law on Military Status, as in the Constitution, deals with the limitation of certain civil rights during military times. We have spoken and discussed many times, including in this rostrum, about the fact that information policy is part of the overall strategy of victory. So with all due respect for individual colleagues who are now insisting on the principles of parliamentaryism and public constitutional rights, we need to understand that at this very time, unfortunately, they are limited. The military situation will end, and we will return to the rights of our citizens to receive objective, transparent information. And today, I think the project that's proposed is complicated, but balanced, considering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u88	The word is given to Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, faction of "The Fatherland." Please let your colleagues through.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, only numbers. Mr. Shufrich, if you don't know, half a billion dollars are allocated to the Council Channel. Half a billion dollars to ban the broadcast of the Supreme Council. If this is freedom of speech for Yanukovic, vote for it. If you have fought or not fought for such freedom of speech, you have been put to the Revolution of Dignity, including, vote for it. This is a law that prohibits the broadcast of the Supreme Council. There is an alternative bill signed by representatives of all factions, where it is clearly warned: after the completion of the Supreme Security Council's work, there is a full transmission of the Supreme Council excepting, for example, other readings where each faction's position is on each issue. This is a bill that actually allows for the embezzlement of government funds. Four hours a day, information is being prepared through the "Rady" channel. If it is not possible to broadcast once a week to the Supreme Council, why such freedom of speech? Those who voted to include this in the agenda should understand that your voice will never be heard. Today, I had the opportunity to listen to the traffic jam that so - called Supreme Council experts are talking about. You'd hear what they say about our work. We do not tell what Parliament is doing here, we do not show our position, but we are told about it. And then we're wondering why this is the Supreme Council rating. We are definitely against this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now that Helen Kostovna will speak, and after that I invite all the national deputies to the hall, we will make a decision on this project. Olena Kostvena, we vote after this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u91	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, you know, the main point now that each and every one of us should feel is a sense of responsibility in these difficult times and a connection with people. In fact, at the beginning of the full - scale invasion, people appreciated that Parliament had preserved its subjectivity, and he was able to make decisions in this very room. And that's a lot of words, to be honest. But trust in Parliament cannot be undermined when there is an opaque explanation of his work. You know, what's most surprising is this decision at a time when we were able to convince the European Parliament, and it's in the European Parliament that it's even on the web site that highlights the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, the time we're going through right now is when exactly our work should be one of the defenses of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u92	Excuse me, two minutes, please, Oleni Kostovny. Well, one more minute, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u93	Yes, thank you. We are able to make and unite around many decisions: around the country’s security, around the support of our Ukrainian Armed Forces. You know, we're a little short on the courage of Nancy Pelosi, who could have flown in with the exterminators and recovered, and talked about the power of the United States Congress. Let's take a little bit of the courage of Liz Trass, Boris Johnson, and the rest of our colleagues who say that Parliament should be a subject, it should be an initiative, it should be responsible. I very much ask not to support this decision, because it has absolutely nothing to do with explaining our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues. With motive? Well, just out of motive, please. From the procedure, more faithfully, you wanted to say. Please. Please, Bujansky. [[B in m in s a l in]] He said he would.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I invite everyone to press the green button. There's a war coming! Now it is not about words, it is about actions!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u96	Maxim Arkadyovich! Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that you accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on some of the issues concerning the disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 9th call under martial law (registration number 7739). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:13]] For 241 Decision taken. It's been decided. Let's move on, dear fellows, next. Show the factions, please. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of notarial and registration activities in the acquisition of land rights (registration number 7532). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that we address this issue in a simplified manner, because we said that all the bills will be discussed further. Please make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:42:03]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against it. Please sign up: two in, two in. People's deputies, please don't leave because I feel like we're going to make a decision in five minutes. Please two in, two in, two in. Please, Olena Alexyevna Schulak, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u97	I give the word to Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u98	Please, Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u99	Greetings, colleagues. Thank you for the third time this bill entered the walls of the Supreme Council. I'd like to tell you that we're sitting here working to win, but to win not only in war, but to win our own mistakes. We made a mistake, and we need to fix it. For more than a year and a half, ordinary citizens have not been able to form land for gardening, for gardening within a simplified procedure. In these lands, the legal regime of agricultural land came into effect by accident, and that large pool of checks that should be made during the process of processing falls on simple ordinary lands, towns, and gardens of our citizens. This bill is aimed at correcting those points that we have not corrected and have failed to find legal regulation in the Land Circumstances Act in Ukraine. That's the first one. And the second. We address the key issues of predominant law, how it should be used today for the purpose of being correct and unquestionable. I ask you to support this project in the first reading, and who has questions about second reading, is willing to process and correct it to make life easier for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. That God loves a trinity, let's see if he can make it this time. Thank you. Colleagues, please welcome to the word Ivana Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u102	Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u103	"European Solidarity" will continue under this bill. But there's no need for the votes of statesmen, I see, parties, because we're in a state of war, we're in a state of "wide" -- a monotonous and attached to them by the PIC, which is now called the PIC. You see, half the factions are sitting somewhere in Monaco, and those who come to sit don't vote. And that's good for everyone. Excuse me, when the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech speaks and calls for the destruction of freedom of speech, it's very interesting. It's very interesting when people who haven't been here for six months have been sitting around in America, coming and killing freedom of speech with their votes. This is an absolute disgrace, a loss to Parliament. And when we are told that there should be a high responsibility during a state of war, it is true. So this high responsibility, it's that we have to report to the voters, which is why we work. There must be a government here. Excuse me, have we all read the soul-breathing story of how the government has driven the train on Ivano? French in the early days of the war. They're back now, aren't they? Let them come and present their drafts here. And you kill Parliament and each of you as a deputy as a politician by voting because people have to understand what Parliament is accepting, what it is voting for. And that certainly doesn't undermine the security of the state, and that makes it stronger. Because when you vote in secret, that's irresponsible, that's building here. You know, it's very convenient to sit in America for six months and come here and vote for the creation of Lukashenko Belarus and road Russia. This started with totalitarian states -- the destruction of freedom of speech. Shame on anyone who pressed the button to destroy parliamentaryism!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u104	I'm just asking you to pay attention, there are government representatives in the cabinet's bed on those bills that will be obeyed today. So I would like to point out that they are available and not to spread what you call freedom of speech. I'm sorry, I didn't name a last name. I was just paying attention to the reporter. Thank you. Please give the floor to Dmitri Artem Hennadijovich, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine". Oh, you're out of place. You've been turned on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, more than a year after the moratorium is lifted, the agricultural destination market is in operation. Clearly, there has been sufficient work experience during this time to develop a profile normative base. Agrarians call for reforming and restoring the procedure that existed before the war, and we need to listen to them. Practice has shown that the existing procedures for acquiring ownership of land are too regulated. We have to take responsibility for the procedures in the land market, because Ukrainian land is a national wealth. The parliamentary group "Delivery of Ukraine" considers the legislative initiative insufficient to be accepted in the first reading. It needs to be processed. Our group refrains from supporting the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u106	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Head. As far as this bill is concerned. Our group supports him. And about everything we've heard about freedom of speech. No one will blame me for protecting every media, every media, even political opponents even more than those who may have been closer to me by February 24. This is the first time. Secondly, in the title of the decree that was passed, the bill was written: during the state of war. The state of war will end, and we will return to the principles of the protection of the constitutional rights of our citizens. And now I know, I really want to be a pianist. So what I'm saying is that the Supreme Council in terms of war can't be a place for a political pianist, only a place for a union to win. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Soboljevo's one more minute, Sergio Vladislavovich, and we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Sergei Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u109	Sobolje, Fatherland. As the classic from Russia put it, the Supreme Council or the State Duma can't be a place for discussion, so look very carefully. With regard to this bill. Mr. Fries knows the Highlands very well. This weekend, I was very busy, and I was taken to a mountain. As construction materials could be delivered there, I do not understand. But there was a helicopter site for Yanukovich in the 14th year. Some well - founded island of Ternopolska still owns it, and another 250 hectares were planned by a simplified procedure of 2 hectares under privatization. Mr. Fries, look very carefully at this bill. Until the reckoning is done, and all those lands will return to the state, no simplified procedure. We won't vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. You want a replica, don't you? Please, Igor Pavlovich Fries, one minute, a line and we'll go to the vote. People's deputies, who have not yet reached their seats, please make their way.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Head. I've just been remembered three times. I would just like to point out that this bill applies exclusively to land within a populated area. If there is a village on this hill somewhere, there may be some way to develop gardening and gardening. But in this situation, it is likely that other lands have a different purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of notarial and registration actions in the acquisition of land rights (registration number 7532). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:51:47]] For 259. Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7532. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:15.]] For 238. Decision taken. Let's move on. From the procedure? Friends, if not procedure, you'll see, I'll turn it off. Irina Volodymyr, if the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I'm sure you know all the ministers of Mr. Schmigal's government, even though we haven't seen them in a while, we could have left them in the face. You said there were government officials sitting in the bed. I would like to point out that this is the Minister of Social Affairs. And now we're going to be looking at her bill. You commented on my speech, which referred to a completely different law on agriculture. I should point out to you that there is no representative of this ministry in the government's bed. And we ask our faction to invite representatives of the government under every law for every bill. And let's go back to getting the government to present the bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u114	Thank you. But it's strange when a government official presents Mr. Fries's bill. I don't think that makes any sense. And now there's going to be a government bill. Is there a government officer? Does it make sense? Did you miss the puzzle? Then let's move on. Next. 6120: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide a single report on the sole contribution to the general government social insurance and income tax of natural persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:59]] For 260 Decision taken. I invite Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ivanovna Žolnović. After that, the committee. Then two in favour, two in favor, and we vote. Please, Oksana Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u115	Dear Head, honourable national MPs, actually, the project may not look very simple, but in fact it is extremely necessary. What does this project predict? We very much ask that the EU's single social contribution report, and now it is submitted quarterly, is changed and submitted monthly. Why is this important? Otherwise, we cannot make any payments on time. For example, I want to show you one example. A person who is poor and wants to turn to him for help in terms of security. And to get this help to her, and she turned, for example, in July, we're taking her income from last year's fourth quarter and the first quarter of this year, and she's already changed the situation completely. We can't wait that long for information about human income when it comes to the counting of hospitals, the counting of social assistance, the counting of temporary unemployment benefits. All of these aids need an operational understanding of what income a person has, because this income is taken into account in the calculation of these aids. This situation with monthly reporting, it was until 2021 and, in principle, it was relevant and met all the requirements, there were no warnings about it. I realize that there was a situation where I wanted to ask, and it looked like it was normal. But practice shows that this is too complicated, and 40 days of information is given after the end of the block. So I'm asking you very much to support in the first reading, we're going to work on the second reading, even if there's a warning. But this is an important bill, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Please take your place. I invite the first deputy head of finance, tax and customs policy Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. You, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, yes. You're listed as my co-reporter under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u117	Dear friends, look, it's a really important law, and I ask you to vote it out in the first reading, in the first. We'll work on it, we'll take all the notes, but it's important. In the 2019 peace year, we accepted that one would be an EU report and other taxes. And that was right, that was deregulation and necessary. But war broke out, and now there's a problem, a problem that I've faced, and I'm a man from Mariupol, and a large number of people have left Mariupul. People go out, they go to the unemployment center, they try to get into unemployment. But there is no record of the European Union paying in the last quarter, because we report once a quarter. Accordingly, they, the government, cannot assign anything other than a minimum payment. For these people, it's 4 thousand dollars that they're going to get or 8, and right now, when this is the most needed aid. I've collected working groups on the committee three times myself as a person who's clearly in pain of business. I've been gathering representatives of all business associations. I assure you that none of the business associations opposed it, but there were those who did. To make sure that we're not lying to you right now and we don't want to do any worse, pick up any accountant and ask him how he's doing better, and that's exactly what we want to do for the second reading, or, unfortunately, it doesn't work during the war. So once again, colleagues, we rarely vote here on laws that directly have such an impact on people here and now. This law is going to have an impact here and now. I'm asking you specifically before the first reading skip this law, we'll work it out, you'll have the positions of all business associations "for," and we'll release it into the hall for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've completed the bill, we're moving on to a discussion. I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Danilov Vitaly Bogdanovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u119	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we are not being listened to by Ukrainian citizens to hear this discussion about the bill. We have a war, and individuals, entrepreneurs, businesses, Ukrainians barely survive in these conditions. They can't work properly, many of them are displaced, they're hard to report. So now we have to make the quarterly report a monthly one to make their lives more difficult. And with these suggestions, the Minister of Social Policy comes here to the sessional room, and that's what he suggests. Please tell me, in order to pay social benefits, may it be necessary to amend the Ministry's regulations and to change the order in which these social benefits are accounted for? So that it doesn't go from income in the last month to income in the last quarter, and then there won't be any problems. Why do we want to pay people social contributions and do better, instead of making it worse for all the natural entrepreneurs who still can't survive in these conditions? So I don't think this bill makes any sense at all. He does not meet the requirements of today’s day. He's absolutely not solving the problem of paying the social benefits he was talking about in the minister's speech. And I think we have this bill to reject today, and instead we have to make changes to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the Ministry's orders, and we have the opportunity to pay the people who need it right now, and we have to take away all the problems. And you don't have to turn us, MPs, into hostages of this situation. I believe that such a bill does not have to be considered in the sessional room during the war. Let's let the natural entrepreneurs help, not put them in worse conditions than they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u120	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u121	Please give the floor to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u122	Galina Mikolayovna Tretlyakova, please. At the rostrum better, I think he'll present your position. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u123	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to say that we finally have a minister of social policy who clearly tells us from the rostrum why we need the changes that people and factions support that protect business as such. And secondly, the previous speaker, I want to say that we need to make a profound distinction between the taxes paid by the entrepreneur and the only social contribution, is the nature of these contributions that are completely different. Social benefits, especially in the social insurance system, are accounted for directly depending on how much social contributions are paid. You can't count this without changing the law. It's not possible to do this through the Cabinet of Ministers. What needs to be changed is that we do so in part of the labor law. We are very serious about whether or not we need to apply labour law, including the EU's payment to the FOPs. And these changes will also be in the hall, and I don't think they'll be waiting that long. But nature is different, and allow the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Social Policy to count social benefits for people on time. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Maxim Vitaliovich Saurasov, faction of European Solidarity. After that, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, and then we turn to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u126	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, this is a case where you have to kneel before those tens of thousands of people who can't get a pension in three years at the right time or then make a census. The lack of monthly information on the EU’s accrual and payment at the Pension Fund has led to delays in even the payment of all social benefits. Recruitment is delayed for internally displaced persons. And you're making such a mistake. The year is a government draft law in the Supreme Council, and only today have we reached it. And in fact, the report that used to exist on the income tax of natural persons is quarterly and, according to the EU, monthly, fully corresponded to all the following actions and guarantees of authority. Now, in order to hide your non-professionalism, lack of experience, experience has to be in every deputy, everyone has to learn to make a penny not in the Supreme Council at once, but on earth to do something, to be in business and understand what your so-called changes mean and what they lead to. So a return to monthly reporting and a tax on the income of natural persons is not an option. I talked about it in 2019, and I'm talking about it now. It's not the way we're supposed to go with you. That's why we're not going to support this bill. Make sure that your mistakes are fully corrected, do not cover up, they are unprofessional.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u128	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. And then I invite the people's deputies to the vote. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, there have been many performances. Vani Krulka was talking about what business might be against, Nina Petrovna -- about what Parliament has done wrong. They're both absolutely right. So once again, there's a proposition. There's a problem, it's real, it's about tens of thousands of people who don't get the money. During the war, we certainly would not want to make such decisions for the sake of politics. We accept in the first reading. I'm the head of the working group on this bill. Give me this business, we'll get them involved, we'll write it out so they'll be better off. And believe me, they'll tell you thanks for changing those rules. As Nina Petrovna said, this will be easier, faster, and more importantly, people will get the money. So once again, we take it in the first reading, then we work it out. I think it's the most compromising and right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide a single report on a single contribution to the general government social insurance and income tax (registration No. 6120). Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:56]] For 253 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6120. People's deputies, please. Don't cut it? Okay. Then let's, if the committee doesn't, I won't bet. This proposal is off. Dear colleagues, we still have three European integration laws in our second reading. I ask you not to leave this room, because there will be amendments to take into account, to confirm, and we just need to get through these important Euro-integration bills quickly. Presidential Bill 6320, second reading. Please invite Vassilevsky-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna for the rostrum. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to simplify the provision of information necessary for financial monitoring. I was told there would be a small amount of amendments. Who's going to bet? Who insists. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, you're asking for two minutes instead of amendments, right? Anyone else will insist on their amendments? Nobody. Dear colleagues, I'll ask you two minutes -- Tsimbaluk Mikolaiovich, and we vote in favour of this bill, this is the Presidential Euro-Integration Bill. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u131	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I would like to express our faction's position on this bill. In fact, the name is very positive, but there are things for it that conflict with our international agreements. The essence of the bill is that it speeds up and simplifies the procedure for legal persons to provide information on beneficiaries and the structure of ownership for legal persons, and the requirement for mandatory notarial certification of copies of documents that are not transferred from enterprises is waived. The bill also provides that information about non-citizens and non-citizens who are the final beneficiaries of the legal person, except those with the registration number of the tax payer’s account card, shall be submitted to the Single State Register on the basis of the data (note!) the applicant for documents, documents without checking them. Honorary colleagues thus create grounds for filing and filing unreliable information on end-users, which does not meet our international financial monitoring obligations, will help to further avoid paying taxes to those who will withdraw capital from Ukraine. And once again, I hope that my corrections, which were just saying that, are going to be 8th and 124th, are going to be taken into account, and we would have avoided those things. So all the data that's given, they need to be tested. Otherwise, we're throwing away, sorry, their unreliable information and then our international funding structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u132	Thank you. If possible, briefly respond, Olga Vasilovna. Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u133	Dear Mikhailovich, you and I have worked on not one bill, I have great respect for how you give your legal expertise, and some of your remedies are also included here. In fact, our bill, on the other hand, is called upon to verify the legal information given to the Single State Register of Final Beneficiaries. Our bill has passed a legal, technical expertise on the European Commission, as well as an expertise on the validity of the European directive. That's why I think it's our bill that helps to clean up the register of end-of-life beneficial owners and will be called on to avoid Russian being there and to actively respond to Russian assets, including in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've completed the discussion of this bill, we're moving on to adoption. What, do you still have it? I asked you, colleagues. It's not the head, it's the representative. I don't have a representative. Okay. Olga Mikhailovna, please sit down. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Only I ask very much, Joanna Orestovna, I'm going to need a decision from your committee that will be presented by every Euro-Integration Bill to, well, to show the diversity of your committee. Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u135	Today it will be me, and then we will show the diversity of the committee. So, my fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you and I have passed a decree under which, in paragraph 2 of Part 5 of the decree, a bill can only be passed as a law after it has been considered in the second reading for the positive conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Before this bill is an article analysis provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. He points out that there are some observations from the point of view of European law, and says that the draft law (in summary) is partially in line with the objectives of the Association Agreement and the position of the EU Act. I'd like you and I to make a clear statement right now, maybe by discussing the regulatory rules, whether that's a positive conclusion whether this is a semi-positive conclusion that we're going to do half the work with you all the time. I think this is a very serious task for the entire Parliament. And so I'm going to ask you for these few other readings so that you and I can respond responsibly to how we should organize further work. And in all of you, I appeal once again to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order for our committee to be able to fully perform the function that this decision places on us, potentially with changes to the Rules, we need to increase the human potential of our committee and the ability to process the entire array of documents in the first and second readings. And I very much hope, for your effective work, that we will make it through, you will support us, our committee in this request to the Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Once again, I stress that this bill, you see, is going to meet one of the requirements set by the European Union to start negotiations on full membership. So please fill in the responsibility for making this decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the simplification of the order of submission of information necessary for the conduct of financial monitoring (registration number 6320). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:13]] For 245 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, let them all see. Yes, European law, I remember. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill, 5616. This is a draft law on the legal protection of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs, the protection of rights and the application of quality schemes, including traditional guaranteed characteristics for agricultural products and foodstuffs. I understand that they will be put to the 20 and 21 rulings under this bill. Do I get it right? Besides, will someone else make any adjustments? No, it's not. Then who will be? I think so. I don’t remember who asked. Bulah. Lady Bullach, please. Set these adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u137	I'm asking for two minutes. Two revisions: 20, 21. My friends, I'm very ashamed that in the interest of the tobacco industry, there is now a two-pronged movement to return smoking to public places, namely cafes, bars, restaurants of all kinds of cigarettes, not just potassium, which you're told is just potassium. So I'm asking you very much right now to fail these two amendments, which have nothing to do with the law at all. Shame on us! I am very sorry that this is happening in Parliament on the ninth call. We're going through these two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, these checks are partially accounted for, aren't they? This is the 20th Amendment of Fris and the 21st Amendment. I don't remember. Oh, and Natalie. Natalie's accounted for. Dear colleagues, then I'll take my turn. And so, 20 amendments, by Francis and Savichenko. They're partially accounted for. At the same time, Lada Bullach asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. I'm betting on 20 amendments, which are partially included, for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:39]] For-88 The decision is not taken. The amendment is considered rejected. 21th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Nataluhi. It's counted by the committee. Lady Bullach puts it on the stand. Therefore, I ask you to vote for the 21 amendments. Please vote. [[14:18:08]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Legal Protection of Geographical Indications for Agricultural Products and Food, the Protection of Rights and the Application of Quality Schemes, including traditional guaranteed characteristics for agricultural products and foodstuffs (Registration No. 5616). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:18:59]] For 288 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 4142, is a draft of the Public Health Act. Mikhailo Borisovich, come in. They said there'd be some changes to confirm the faction of the EU and the faction of the Fatherland. Do I get it right? Oh, it's just the E.S., right? Two adjustments. Call the numbers so we can make it. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Call the number just so we can find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u139	Please correct the confirmation of Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze: 710th, 754th, 599th, 753rd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u140	One second. 710th, 700th. Who, Klimpush-Cincadze will be? Joanna Orestovna, please call again, because I haven't been able to write it down. 710.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u141	710, 753, 754 and 599.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, Ivanna Orestovna, begin. Do you need time to reason? Please, Ivanna Orestovna. Take your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, we are looking at a second-reading bill that is marked as Euro-Integration. If you look closely at the correspondence table provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, you might view it as a positive conclusion on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u144	Stop. Stop, Ivanna Orestovna. 710th is not your amendment, it's Mezentsev's amendment, which is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u145	711. In fact, I could put 710 to 752, they all apply to each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u146	Well, look, you called me the amendment numbers. They don't match what you want to do. What amendment, please specify which one will you place on confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u147	Let's do 752.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u148	752. 752th, this is Mezentsev's amendment, it's partially accounted for. Please, 752th, come on. Justify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u149	And in fact, just one of these amendments is their series of amendments, it says that this part of the bill does not correspond to the legislation of the European Union. This is precisely the case with questions about the state’s registration of dangerous factors of chemical and biological nature. And so, my colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to whether we want to determine whether we are adopting drafts without a positive conclusion from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, whether we are necessarily insisting with you that we be brought to the ideal of our bills with you, or whether we are simply going to adopt bills that are not always partially, or directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u150	I got it. The position of the Committee of 752 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u151	This amendment, it completely repeats the 815 amendment to the committee on the need to develop a separate law for dispossession. Because in 2024 the EU is changing legislation on the registration of disinfectants. So there's an 815 amendment that says we need separate legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u152	Are you insisting on voting, Ivanno Orestovno? You insist. 752 amendments to Mezentsev's authorship are included in part. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Klimpush-Cincadze puts it on the stand. The committee said he asked for confirmation of the amendment. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. Please report to the committee, yes, we vote. [[14:23:31]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Correction's broken. Dear colleagues, I don't understand, honestly. Please, what's next, Ivanno Orestive?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u153	I'm going to put 754 in, but this is about amendments 754 and 767, what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u154	754 amendment of Raduccik's authorship. She's a committee member. Please, Joanna Orestovna, your position, then the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u155	Look, colleagues, once again, this amendment violates the law of the European Union. Unlike European Union legislation, the bill does not provide for a separate general and simplified procedure for the registration and requirements of biocidal products, as provided for by European Union law. So here you and I are back in this framework, this trap of inadequacy of the now-approved Euro-Integrated Bill to the right of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u156	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u157	Dear Ivanna Orestovna, you and I, thanks to your faction too, have passed Bill 5547, which makes up a single certification body, called the Ukrainian Food and Drug Administration, according to the Euroregistration, to which the functions of this registration have been transferred. So this amendment, it just confirms that we have the only one in Europe, the EMA certification body, only we have the U-EMA under Law 5547.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 754 amendments by Michael Borisovich Raducci and other members of the committee are considered by the committee. Joanna Orestovna asks that the committee's decision be confirmed. I'm putting 754 amendments on confirmation. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:25:56]] For 239. Decision taken. The amendment remains accepted. Joanna Orestovna, can we move on then? Ivanna Orestovna, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u159	I'm going to make another amendment for confirmation and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u160	Number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u161	599. Colleagues, I want your attention, 599.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u162	I heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u163	I'd like to pay attention, colleagues. I'm reading to you not even from the committee, but from what I call the so-called positive conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Again, colleagues, if we make decisions in the form of a decision, and then we constantly violate them ourselves, I don't see how we're going to go with you to European integration and to start membership talks. So I'm going to ask you to sort these out.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u164	John Orestovna, 599 is rejected. I'm sorry, this is Dirdin's amendment, it's rejected. John Orestovna, this amendment was rejected. Look, fellows, let's do the numbers first, then we'll get out. Dear colleagues, I have a letter from Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, who asks instead of 40 amendments to give her 10 minutes to perform, then we vote. Let's take that as a compromise position. Ten minutes, then we vote. Julia Volodymyr's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, frankly, the Law on European Integration, but the ruling party is mass out of the room because, in principle, it's not interesting, in principle, it's not interesting. Because buttoning has become, unfortunately, a key feature of this Parliament's work. But as I go to the essence of this story, I can say the following. Parliament is still a place for discussion. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a committee that is obliged to verify how much this bill is Euro-integration, how much it meets European requirements, parameters, criteria, clearly stated that this bill does not meet any European criteria, standards, requirements and so on, i.e. this bill is essentially anti-European. Then the question is, if the Supreme Council's committee of profile has given such a conclusion, how can it be put to the vote at all? I have a question about why then committees, an anti-corruption committee that concludes that the law is corrupt and it is put to the vote, a Euro-integration committee that concludes that it is an anti-euro-integration law and is put to the vote. You know, it all looks really weird. But a brief summary that I'd like to say right now. The point is that the health model that is now being developed in Ukraine, which was launched in the time of the previous President and which is called the Ulya Suprun reform, instead of being replaced by a clear one, is perfectly understandable for the European Union in insurance medicine, it continues to evolve and to put the development of the Ulya Suprun sector at a dead end, practically, health protection in Ukraine. I want to ask you, the ruling party has abandoned the position of the President's program, which clearly states that we are moving to the health insurance system. So if the President had promised this, the parliamentary elections promised the ruling party, how can we now adopt bills that directly contradict the development of approaches to insurance medicine and lead us further along the path of Uljana Suprun's stupid reform, where neither in the central budget nor in the local budgets is enough money to finance the health system at all. And how does this result in a total reduction in health - care facilities, medical facilities, and so on, so that they can fit into a budget that is scarce and, in fact, leave the country without access to the health care system. Dear friends, if you follow double standards, tell people. And that's why I now understand why there's no broadcast of the Supreme Council, why even the record doesn't give society an understanding of what's going on here. Because behind closed doors there are corrupt lobbying bills, absolutely bills against people's interests. And all of this is done contrary to the will of the people, without asking this will of the people. Of course, our team will vote conceptually against this bill. Because we believe that we need to immediately start working on a system-wide transition bill, as in all European countries, for insurance medicine and not for the rest of it, because the country is perceived as a marginal state, where health services must be in the final principle. I'm asking you to put all these rights on confirmation right now. And if, of course, there are no votes, you just have to take them off. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to see you put up a vote for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u166	Julia Volodymyrna, no, no, we didn't make that deal. You're saying you're changing these changes to 10 minutes. You've got 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u167	Excuse me, I've asked you for 10 minutes, I've cut to 5 to put you in now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u168	No, no, you have a completely different letter. Julia Volodymyrna, well, let's not do it anyway, your five minutes -- finish your report. If not, we will wait five minutes. Please. And we're going to vote for the law as a whole. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u169	When did you learn that?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u170	What homage, Julia Volodymyrna? Once again, I'm reading, you're asking for 10 minutes instead of these amendments. All of it. Thank you. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Julia Volodymyrna, if you still want, you still have five minutes to finish -- your right. You don't want to, then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please respond to Julius Volodymyrna's statement, which she asked for 10 minutes instead of the amendments, the position of the committee. Michael Borisovich, what do you say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u171	My colleagues, first of all, Julius Volodymyrically, thank you very much for your report. The only thing I would like to say is that this Law on public health in the health system of the honourable Mrs. Suprun, mentioned earlier, has nothing to do with it. This is a complete introduction of Ukrainian public health legislation to European standards. That's the first one. The other one. This law completely makes it impossible to do anything with the registration of biosafety, chemical safety and infectious safety. This law has nothing to do with vaccination, treatment, or NSOs. It's a completely different story. But your report is very correct, I thank you very much, because there are some observations, not to this law, but to the system as a whole, they are very appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u172	Thank you, Michael Borisovich. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to speak on this matter? Nobody. Before voting, I want to invite Ivanna Orestive Klimpush-Cincadze, two minutes, to the position of the committee. Ivanna Orestovna. Ivanno Orestovno, two minutes from the committee, and we move on to the vote. You're out of town. Please include Ivana Orestovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u173	Thank you very much. Again, unfortunately, this bill only partially takes into account European Union law and unfortunately, part of the provisions does not correspond to article 47, article 48, to the law of the European Union. That is why you can be sure, but our duty is to warn you that European integration is far from complete in this specific bill on public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, take your seats. Please take your seats. Let's make sure we don't have any sprints. Just take your seats and move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Public Health Act (registration number 4142) on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:38:08]] For 228 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. Let's move on. The next 7607 is a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the design and implementation of state policy for the protection of critical infrastructure. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:38:54]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again. Please sign in. [[B in m in s a l in]] What committee is this? It's not a Euro-integration law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, what's wrong? Please sign in: two in, two in. Please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u175	Thank you. Please make my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u176	Thank you. We're making a scene. Next. This is Gevko Vladimir Leonidovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Guys, don't break up!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u177	Please give the word to Alexander Fedienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u178	Please, Fedienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, in due course, we have all adopted a revolutionary bill on critical infrastructure with you. Unfortunately, however, in connection with the widespread military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, we have not been able to establish an appropriate central authority of executive power to control critical infrastructure. It is vital to protect our territory not only in the trenches of weapons, but also to protect critical infrastructure, cybersecurity, and the passporting of critical infrastructure objects. The implementation of Bill 7607 will allow, without the creation of a new central executive body, to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of critical infrastructure and the performance of the functions of an authorized authority for the protection of critical infrastructure in Ukraine to entrust the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. Note that according to the current edition of the Critical Infrastructure Act, the State Administration is the subject of a national system of critical infrastructure protection, which is responsible for cyberprotection of critical infrastructures, maintenance and accounting of relevant state control registers in the relevant sphere. The State has the potential and the necessary material and technical basis to expand the powers to form and implement state policy in the areas of critical infrastructure and critical information infrastructure. Colleagues, please support the relevant bill in the first reading. This law, once again, will allow us to create the proper passporting of our critical infrastructure objects for our victory. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u180	Please, next. The word is given to Dmitruk Artem Hennadijovich, a deputy group called "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Mr. Valery Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u182	Valerius Sergiyovich Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, at the end of last year, the Critical Infrastructure Act became effective, and the government was to determine within three months an authorized authority for the protection of Ukraine's critical infrastructure. Because of the war, such an authorized body is, unfortunately, not yet defined. But the issue of protecting critical infrastructure, please agree, has only become more relevant today. We have to eliminate this gap and assign such an organ. Let's be honest, we don't have the time or the resources to create such a new body today. But we do have the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine, which performs similar functions in cyberspace. It is also clear that cyberprotectors are now or are not the most important part of the safety of objects such as critical infrastructure. Therefore, the reliance on appropriate functions may seem to be quite appropriate for a temporary state of affairs. The "Deliverance of Ukraine" group will support this document and propose to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich and then Ariev, and then we go to the vote. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. Then Vladimir Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u185	Thank you, Mr. Head. The question is, you don't have to waste time, you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u186	Thank you. I am now giving Vladimir Igorovich Ariev. And I ask the people's deputies to take their seats, and then we move on to making decisions. Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u187	An example of a primitive bill when it was taken and everything was posted to the Department of Special Communications and Information Protection. They just wrote it down, assigned the person responsible and everything, although the question is much broader. And the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection does not have the full potential to be like the Cybervies today. And for that. But you just had to do something quickly, did. Unfortunately, we will not do what is really necessary today and, in particular, Decree 7590, which protects Ukraine from the fact that Russian banks can use cryptographic exchangers to circumvent sanctions, it does not put anything in the agenda, even though the entire Digital Transformation Committee has signed it. So come on, this bill just doesn't make sense to accept. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. And I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the design and implementation of state policy for the protection of critical infrastructure (registration number 7605). Ready to vote? Oh, I'm sorry, 7607. I'm sorry, 7607. Thank you. I'm sorry. Then let me rephrase. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the design and implementation of State policy for the protection of critical infrastructure (registration number 7607). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:16]] For 237 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of the newly adopted bill in the first reading of 7607. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:47]] For 227 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill 7662. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the selection of candidates for the post of Constitutional Court judge on competitive grounds. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:47:24]] For 224 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, this is a bill that requires us to open membership in Eurocomisis and Eurorad. So, please, voting for him is very important. Membership negotiations, I'm sorry. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. And, well, I invite Maslova Denis Vejacheslavovich, from the authors and from the committee, four minutes from you. Please. It's just that next time we're going to specify the format of the report. I don't mind. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u189	My colleagues, I'm sure everyone in this room understands how much we've gotten to be a candidate for entry into the European Union. And the price of that is our dead heroes, the lives of Ukrainian civilians. And I agree with what the President said: we didn't get this status, we didn't get it, we got it -- we got it. Along with the granting of this status, the European Commission has made a recommendation to implement seven aspects of the seven reforms. And the first of these is the question of improving the selection, implementing the selection of a genuine competitive procedure for the appointment of a Constitutional Court judge. This bill, which is now before you, 7662 is just a bill to implement our first point of recommendation on the way to our European future. It is through this bill that we introduce a transparent, open-ended, public competitive election to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court, where both national and international representatives of the entities will be involved. This bill will allow us to put an end to the first paragraph in the conclusion of the European Commission, to establish the status as enforceable. In addition, the bill suggests that we abandon the political influence on the nomination of candidates. Yes, yes! Because we're cleaning up the possibility of moving away from the factions in the Parliament's session room. And you don't have to go out with the factions to get them out. And this is a recommendation from the Venice Commission, a special report. Who doesn't know, I'll get to know her. Therefore, colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after considering the bill at its meeting, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law No. 7662 should be included in the agenda of the eighth session of the ninth vocation and, as a result of the first reading, accept it as a basis. The Committee also decided to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce to the plenary during the consideration of draft Law 7662 the application of part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the introduction of proposals, amendments to the text of a bill that had not been considered in the first reading. So, colleagues, please support this bill and make the Constitutional Court work for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u190	Thank you, Denise Vejacheslavovich. Please sign up for factions. Got it, got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] The thing is, what I announced, what happened, what happened, what happened. Arthur Volodymyrovich, we're not going to be rewriting, I understand your faction is gone. You'll get one minute. I invite the faction of the political party Sternichuk Valeriy Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u191	Please pass the word to Dirdin Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u192	Maxim Dirdin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, please support this important bill, because it is really a step towards the European Union, and Ukraine has proved that it is worthy to be a member of the European Union. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u194	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, it is very good to hear that we are integrated into the European Union. The only question is why we're doing this so late, why the previous judge of the Constitutional Court, even a few, has not been chosen by this new procedure. In principle, you could do everything right. But we have traditionally, by the way, the conclusions of some Venice Commission are somehow selectively read. For example, the Venice Commission strongly recommends that people who have experience in the field of human rights be included in the selection. There's nothing in the advisory group about that. The Venice Commission recommends that public independent experts be involved. Again, there's nothing about it. I'm sorry, but somehow very selectively we integrate with you, where it's convenient, we listen, where it's uncomfortable, we don't listen. But we welcome at least under such social pressure a step in the right, no, not a step, lying in the right direction. It is indeed good that we are starting the discussions, but we will certainly make sure that the recommendations of the Venice Commission are fully implemented, not with one eye, but with the other eye I can hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u196	Please give the floor to the national deputy Slavic Antonini Kerimovni, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u197	Please give the word to Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u198	Please, Anatoly Petrovich Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I hope everyone in this room knows what the Constitution is, what the Constitutional Court is for. If anyone doesn't know, I'll remind them that the Constitution is the Basic Law, and that's the basis for the activity of any democratic state. Unfortunately, in our room before the aggression, many laws were adopted before the war, which many experts feel do not fully comply with the Constitution. These are, for example, laws that allow foreign corporations to acquire land, or, for example, laws that allow supervisory boards to actually run state companies and rob them instead of directly submitting to the Cabinet of Ministers and working for the interests of the people. Laws that allow for the replacement of courts, courts that execute judgments on behalf of the people of Ukraine, some other peoples. Thus, the Constitutional Court should consider such questionable laws, whether they are in the interests of the Ukrainian people or not, whether they are responsible or not. If we adopt this law today, it allows the influence of foreign experts who have no relation to the Ukrainian people to protect such questionable laws that do not comply with the Constitution, to protect those who will work against the interests of the Ukrainian people. Those words that say they're Euro-integration laws are not true. Because all European nations must first and foremost take care of national interests. This law contradicts national interests, sovereignty, and the interests of the Ukrainian people. We vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u200	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, after this we will proceed to the vote, please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u201	Thank you. May I have a word with you to express the principled position of the People's Deputy Mama?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u202	Can you tell Mommy, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u203	Dear national deputies, in fact, when we are reforming, we should also be responsible for the way they are being carried out. So far, reform has taken place either positively or negatively – the conclusions can be said by society and the outcome of the work on the management of an organ. With regard to the revolutionary reform of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, I would like to point out that the drafters of the bill provide a new model for the selection of judges. We will support only in the first reading. But why? We have to finish the model by the end. If you provide something new in one model or another, you should say what you will do with the old one and when you finish it. Unfortunately, this is not done by the legislator and the drafters. I want to point out that after the first before the second reading, and when the decision is made, to put it in the hall, about the number of rights and the discussions it has in the room, I think there's a lot that can be corrected and changed or given and improved. Will this be beneficial to the European Union? In my opinion, and above all, this should be useful for the work of the Supreme Constitutional Court, in order to actually analyse and research, in fact, the legal laws that have already become, become law, are within the framework of the law without violating the Constitution, the Basic Law, and quickly and qualitatively take decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u204	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask the people's deputies to take their seats. I'm going to put this bill to the vote. Which one of you? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. I'm sorry, you were just here, I should have said it right away. Alexiyovich, please. One minute, Hotcharyenko. Then, dear friends, we go to the vote. And then I'll say more. [[B in m in s a l in]] What line? I invited Alexi Alexiyovich. Stop. It's a nice thing to say, isn't it? After this bill, after the vote, the next one goes without discussion, and the last one, as I was told, is the agreement to vote without discussion and to conclude today. Is there no objection? So, Alexiyovich Honcharenko, after that, we'll vote for everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u205	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. You know, dear friends, we finally decided that we should have some sort of competition before we can appoint someone. Just so interesting, we literally did a last session here, last session here we appointed the judges of the Constitutional Court, then we didn't need a competitive selection. And now that we've been assigned, we've got to go to the competition. Well, it's better late than never. But I want to remind you that we were filing, our faction, another year ago a bill that envisions competitive selection. But once it wasn't in time, not in time, not in time, until you chose two judges of the Constitutional Court from the "Serve of the People" faction. Then it became clear that there was no need for political assignments. That's genius. You guys, we're moving on like this. Well, thank God, it's late, but better late than never, we'll do something good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-06-m0.u206	Thank you. It's very important what you're talking about. Let's do more so that laws like the Attorney General, legal education, this room doesn't know anymore. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote for this important bill, which opens the way for us to full-fledged negotiations on membership in the European Union. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a basis for further elaboration, provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the procedure for the selection of candidates for office of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on competitive grounds (registration number 7662). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:01:36]] For 281 I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7662. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support us so that at the next meeting we can accept it as a whole, so I ask you to vote in favour of cutting the time limits. [[15:02:06]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that the next two bills will not be discussed and we will immediately vote. Please take your seats. Bill 7663. I am proposing to adopt the draft Law amending article 129 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges on clarifying the terms of the meeting of judges of Ukraine (registration number 7663). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:02:48]] For 282 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7663. Please vote. [[15:03:12]] For 245 Dear colleagues, and the final bill, well, stay to the end. This is Bill 5749, and we're not discussing it, and we're voting. I propose that the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Resisting Violations of Work Rights (Registration No. 5749) be adopted on the basis of which I propose. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:03:50]] For 297 Dear colleagues, and the final offer, cut in half the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5749. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:04:16]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for this beautiful day. The agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the duration of its next extension. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We believe in the power of defense of Ukraine! Together, we will expel the racists from our homeland! And the glory of Ukraine!
