ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, before we go to the day-to-day issues and the continuation of our meeting, I would like to address our colleagues again, all the national deputies on the social media, once again, for information on the holding of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the danger is not gone. So on the Conciliation Council, I'm primarily addressing some of our colleagues who are constantly on live broadcast by the Supreme Council, and I'm asking. We have an adopted rule: the plenary meeting is adjourned, and in 30 minutes we will be giving information about this plenary session. I emphasize, colleagues, once again: 30 minutes after the plenary meeting we can publish information about its results. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Now let's get to the beginning. Once again: glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our decisions: on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022 – at the proposal of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. In good tradition, let's start with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 173rd day of full-scale aggression by the terrorist state against Ukraine. The Ukrainian people and their heroic Armed Forces continue methodically breaking the backs of the occupying armies. Regrettably, Ukraine’s defenders and protectors are killed. So I ask for a moment of silence to honor the light of the memory of the soldiers who fought for free, sovereign, and independent Ukraine. Eternal glory to the heroes. We also honor the memory of all civilians who became victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we have traditionally agreed before we begin to consider matters of order, to give time to up to 3 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of factions and groups. So I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up. Please. Please, from the "Trust" MP, Paul Andriyovich Bakunec. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, dear Ukrainian people! During this day, which each of us works in our workplaces, we first express our low grace and thanks to our Armed Forces of Ukraine, our protectors and our protectors, who, on various fronts, are doing too much work, make this day possible for the work of every Ukrainian and of your work, in particular. Today, living in war conditions is extremely unforgivable for many Ukrainian families. It is also unforgivable for local communities that have just begun to develop, and their young, newly created ones have experienced this war. Of course, we need to pay attention to the local authorities this week. We need to help them build up local budgets, that is, return these taxes to the local budgets that we took off with you in the first days of this war. This will help local authorities, as a minimum, to cover road holes, what every Ukrainian sees, will help buy energy, light, gas to pass the heating season, which will definitely help buy the necessary medicines for hospitals that are now in local self - government, which will help to heat our schools. After all, we believe that most of the schools have been working since September and that Ukrainian youths will be able to obtain offline education. It's overwhelming. It is equally important that we are approached by local communities and said that inflation and the dollar rate, of course, reduce the possibility of Ukrainian bracelets. And so we need to make a simplified procedure for hospital shopping, for schools in local self-government, so that they can buy this gas, light, transportation, fuel under simplified procedures, and so survive this year that awaits us. It's overwhelming. So today I call on the hall, there are the relevant bills for a simplified procedure for the purchase of energy for local self-government authorities, and I ask it to take into account, support and help pass the heating system.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u3	Thank you. Please give the floor to Ukraine's National Deputy Plattskovi Tetyana Mikhailovni, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! August is the traditional time that Ukrainian families use to prepare for the new school year by September 1. Clearly, this year, this educational year, will be very difficult for us, for our parents, for all Ukrainian citizens. According to a recent report by Minosveti, 286 schools have been completely destroyed as a result of fighting in Ukraine, and over 2,000 more have been shot. Donbas, Harkovščina, Mikolayevščina, Kyivščina, Chernigovishte are the regions that have suffered the most. The country is almost covered in debris from educational buildings. If there were about 4 million 200,000 participants in the educational process at the start of a full-scale invasion, the situation for now, according to Minosvey, more than 640,000 students are abroad, a large part of the population is temporarily displaced, is part of the children who remain in the temporarily occupied territories. And it's going to be hard for them to start this learning process, this learning year. Such circumstances require extraordinary attention from the authorities, from local authorities, and from our attention to you. What about eye education? We understand that the first question is security. We need to make it clear to parents today that only 40 percent of schools are ready for the education process at large. According to DNSN, only 11 percent of Ukrainian schools have their own shelters; others have shelters nearby. But even this is not the problem, the problem is that these issues will be resolved by local governments and parents who will determine for themselves whether a child should go to school or not. So this year again, unfortunately, will be a year of distance learning. And we have as a state that has such serious dijitalization, to pay great attention to it. We finally have to create a single national education online platform that will meet all the needs and be comfortable and useful for use. The online platform is now needed by children who will learn abroad from another educational system, who need children who are in temporarily occupied territories and who will not be able to start this process beyond the Ukrainian program, who need teachers who are left outside the country or who are staying in temporary occupied territories. That's why our "Deliverance of Ukraine" group is today in favour of preserving the only national educational process. We have to create and ensure the right to education every child of Ukraine, every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u5	Please, Lisa Olenna Georgievna, "Serve of the People" faction. I understand you're handing over the Arsenia Gun, aren't you? Arsenius Pusharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u6	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I want to start by thanking our military, volunteers, medics, rescuers, law enforcement officials, communicators for standing and heroically approaching our victory every day. There were several priorities for a large - scale invasion of power. In addition to the construction of a professional modern army, the creation of a digital state was followed by the development of a completely new modern infrastructure within the framework of the Great Building. Today, the enemy destroys our infrastructure, thousands and thousands of destroyed buildings, schools, gardens, hospitals, bridges, roads – every day throughout Ukraine. The process of future reconstruction is long and complex, but we must do so now, where security is allowed through our Ukrainian Armed Forces. If immediately after victory we want to quickly rebuild our infrastructure, because we deserve to live in a completely new modern Ukraine with a new modern infrastructure, we have to go through and do this path today. Because the President's call to all international partners to join in the reconstruction of Ukraine is, in fact, the idea of our nation's future new state-wide infrastructure under modern technology and standards, the best decisions that are being used today in the European Union and around the world. The first to respond to the President's call and to ask the whole of Ukraine to join in the reconstruction of Ukraine was our trusted partner and a friend of Ukraine is Estonia. Estonia was the first in arms, Estonia was the first in sanctions, Estonia was the first in political decisions. And in terms of reconstruction, Estonia also became the first. You know, in April months, with Olena Schulak and I were in Tallinn, we started a negotiation process on the involvement of Estonia in the reconstruction of Ukraine, namely, Zitomirsk. And this is the day after Estonia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Reinsal, in the border Ovruč, who suffered from dozens, dozens of enemy bombs, enemy missiles, we set up the first object of reconstruction, capsule, along with Cyril Timoshenko, Olena Schulak, to the kindergarten, and this object is the first object to rebuild Ukraine. And it's symbolic that it's just a kindergarten, that it's about children, it's about the future, what we all Ukrainians are fighting for today. For days we await the next object of reconstruction, and it will also be Lifetime, and it will also be Estonia. I call on all countries to join in the reconstruction of Ukraine and for September we prepare the first regional reconstruction forum in Žitomirščina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Bort Vitali Petrovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace". Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u8	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, at this time, it is necessary for each of us and every Ukrainian in their workplace to contribute in every way to victory over Ukraine, so that we can resist Russian aggression, both in military terms and in social terms. What do I mean by social? The point is, I've been talking to sociologists who've been doing research on the refugees of Ukraine, and they're dividing them into three waves. The first wave of refugees is at the beginning of the war those Ukrainian families who were able to drive their own car either outside Ukraine or move to the western region of Ukraine with some small wealth. Then there's the second wave. And now the most dangerous and socially vulnerable is the third wave of refugees, that is, those people who either walked out of military territory, or those people who were taken out on buses, that is, who couldn't take any benefits or money, and they don't have it today, and they need foreign assistance. Our "Platform for Life and Peace," we don't say much, since last week we started collecting warm clothes. Because that seems to be such a small problem, but let's say that we have 15 days left before the beginning of the new school year, so far the Ministry of Education and Science cannot give a clear answer as to how the children of refugees are going to be taught, but also the ordinary Ukrainian children who live in the areas where they live today. The second question. Two months later, there were only two months left before the start of the winter heating season, and by that time our refugees and their children were completely unprepared. And it is today that they need first and foremost assistance not only from the State but also from the political forces, from the national deputies of Ukraine, from all levels. Every Ukrainian national MP, I'm sure there's warm clothes at home. And I'm sure, and I'd like us to take this social initiative, and let our committee on social policy take this initiative so that we can even start with this small initiative, so that we can start collecting warm clothes for refugees and their children in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in this way, show an example for all citizens of Ukraine, for deputies of all levels. Every political force has the MPs of district, district, city councils. Let us take this initiative and give real support to our Ukrainians, our Ukrainian families, our refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u9	Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, "European Solidarity" faction. Oh, please, Jan Zinkevich. Just give me the word. It's Zinkevich, please. Turn on the microphone for Jana Vadimivna Zinkevich. It's working. One second. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Board, we separately requested that we prepare all the facilities for the presentation of the National Deputies. After the meeting, I will ask those responsible to come to see me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u12	I'm with such interesting news, colleagues. Yesterday, I learned that a famous member of Besugla, who, by the way, runs a subcommittee on the Defence Committee, who was involved in reforming the BSS, after I commented on her post, filed an application with the BSC regarding me and several other volunteers, claiming that we had launched an attack on her and that she wanted us to check our contacts at the BPO. You know, our connections are obvious: we are the people who have been doing everything we can since 2014 to win our country, we are volunteers, volunteers, patrons, benefactors. Mrs. Bezaugla, if you've actually registered this application against volunteers at the BSC, publish it, then we'll all go together for simultaneous interrogations, and then you'll be ready to confirm your emptiness with the signature in the protocol. And I, on my part, will file a statement of false testimony with my supporters, and I will defend myself, because when a representative of the government uses a state resource in a political struggle, loading the BSS in wartime with his inventions, that's bullshit. And I remind you, when anyone is a volunteer, a civilian person, a deputy, criticises power and reacts to its inadequate behavior, it all calls it a network that does, in her opinion, some criminal activity, shows how much it is similar to the pseudo-deputy of Russia, and because of it, instead of dealing with the wounded, I'm going to be engaged in interrogations at the TV. And now for me. Maybe one of you doesn't know much about me. I was 27 years old recently, and from the age of 18, I dedicated my life to saving people. At the age of 14. [[Applause]] Thank you. In the 14th year, right after school, I volunteered for the front where I was taking out, and I was able to take out more than 200 wounded fighters. And I'd keep doing that if, unfortunately, I didn't have a civil injury. But even after my disability, I continued to save lives with my Hospitalists. I did not leave my unit and continued to do everything I could to save as many people as possible. During these years, I gained such a reputation that when I was 23 years old, I was elected to the Supreme Council. I am known and respected by hundreds of thousands of people, and I put my life and health in order to win. Too bad there are MPs who do other people's work. Finally, I want to add some important things about the work of our faction, which is constantly dwindling. Our "European Solidarity" faction shouted all months before the start of a full-scale war that we should increase, prepare bomb shelters, carry out educational work among civilians and many more. Instead, you all said that we were hysterical, that we were using it in some kind of political game. As a result, your speakers lied daily on air and in social media, knowing the truth. I personally had a lot of airs where I had a fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u13	Jan Vadimovna, I'm sorry, three minutes is up. Ladies and gentlemen, please state your order. You either don't turn on the microphone, or you don't turn off the time it takes. Let's do it again. Finish up, please, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u14	I didn't make it, one sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u15	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u16	Thank you, colleagues. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u17	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, let's move on. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, an important and timely initiative by the President of Ukraine to ban the issuing of Schengen visas to citizens of the Russian Federation. No tourism from the Russian Federation in the civilized countries of the world, in the countries of the European Union under the conditions of ongoing armed aggression. Only political dissidents from Russia can make an exception if they are directly threatened by President Putin. The ban on visas is Russia’s Achilles ’ fifth, which can turn negative to active power, to President Putin, who leads his country through self - isolation, self - destruction and self - destruction. We expect our international partners to produce a mechanism that will eventually lower the heavy "iron curtain" to Russia, which, as we know, has been one of the reasons for the destruction of the Soviet Union in the last century. Ukraine today shows to all the world the true face of the Russian Federation, which is unable to follow a democratic path, as well as the distorted face of Europe of the past, which believed Putin, succumbed to its flattering words and corrupt gifts. We are fighting not only for ourselves but also for European democracy and for European common values. So we hope that every European politician understands this, appreciates it, and will remember it. Not only is it symbolic of Henry Kissinger's words that, after Russia's atrocities, we should treat Ukraine as a member of NATO, but it's a war that touches the North Atlantic Alliance at home and directly. And the survival of Ukraine as a state is directly proportional to the power and security situation in Europe today provided by this alliance. We don't know how long this war is going to last, we don't know how many more people are going to die on our side, how many soldiers, how many civilians, but we've shown everyone that Ukraine won't give up, that it won't only celebrate the 31st anniversary of its independence, but in the context of war, it does all the tasks assigned to become a full member of the European Union and a full subject of European politics. And in this context, it is important that today Parliament continues to impose sanctions on the aggressor country, particularly on those bills that apply to the Russian Federation sectoral special economic sanctions aimed at banning any economic financial operations of citizens of Russia, full and total. We have to do this once and for all. We also extend several thousand personal sanctions to persons involved in armed aggression against Ukraine. I believe that this will apply equally to nuclear sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u19	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the final performance is Klimenko Julia. Is anyone else coming from Fatherland? Please, Julia Leonidina Klimenko. And then Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Please, Julia Leonidova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u20	Klimenko, Voice. I'd like to attract, colleagues, your attention today to the issue of Ukrainian prisoners of war. Two weeks ago, there was a blow, or an explosion, in a colony in Olenovac, where our prisoners of war are being held. Unfortunately, over a period of more than two weeks, no international organization has entered the territory, has been able to determine how many of our prisoners have been killed, which of them, as well as the Red Cross and the international organizations de facto have self-inflicted from this event. A similar situation is now unfolding with the Mariupola court, which is scheduled for August 24, 2022, on the Independence Day of Ukraine, when our soldiers, the courageous proud soldiers, will be judged in fact by the laws of the 11th century, by the savage barbaric laws, for nothing, for protecting their lives and protecting their Fatherland. The international community is silent, Ukraine and the authorities are not doing enough to mobilize the Red Cross, international organizations, parliaments, governments of various countries, leaders to stop this terrible court, as well as to figure out what happened in Olenovac and what is happening in general to our own prisoners of war. Right now, we have a big problem with a lot of bodies in Ukraine dealing with prisoners of war, different people, but in fact, no one can tell the families where their people are, where their sons are, where their parents are, and what's going on with them. This is not classified information if the military are prisoners of war. Please state the order. The U.S.S.S. Writes off completely bureaucratic letters to families and cannot even tell if the family member is a prisoner of war. Similarly, GUR has taken on a leading role in the work of prisoners of war. The center is not created, the family is not answered, and there is no public communication. Please, I appeal to the authorities, arrange for all prisoners of war to be known, their families know where their relatives are. And our authorities and we all have to work together in warlocks and what's going on. Just as international organizations that have de facto moved away from these events and from Ukrainian prisoners of war are closing their eyes as they closed their eyes to the evacuation from the Kyiv region, the number of deaths and genocides that took place there. So let's all put this together on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now speaking Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenka, and after that we are moving on to the agenda. I'm asking the MPs to take your seats. And then we move on to the day-to-day issues. And I'm still asking you to maintain basic respect for the people who speak out of the rostrum because the topics they talk about are extremely important. And I'd like them to get the address. I'll give it to Sergei Volodymyrovich, please. Then we move on to the issues of order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u22	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, you started today's session with a reminder that the 173rd day of Ukraine is a heroic reflection of the illegal, immoral armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Of course, we as Ukrainian citizens expected that in these 173 days, Ukraine will start to use all its potential because we understand that we are giving away an economy and an army that is more powerful than the economy of Ukraine and the army of Ukraine. Only by the efforts of the heroic Ukrainian Armed Forces are we able to provide not only a worthy reprisal but also a counterattack in a series of directions. Instead, society is waiting for the Supreme Council to make some serious reforms. Today we will elect members of the High Council of Justice, but I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Justice in Ukraine has not been working since August of last year, there is no reform. A senior judicial committee has not worked for nearly three years. The judiciary cannot be filled with new judges. The judiciary cannot be freed from those judges who break the judge’s oath. Unfortunately, there is no action in this direction. And even if we elect representatives of the High Council of Justice today, the Supreme Council of Justice will not be working today. Similarly, we expect changes in the economy, changes that would help the Ukrainian business to support themselves, support their families, support hired workers, and so on. Instead, we get bills that continue some lobbying trail in our work, and in particular, let's remember that in previous sessions a decision has been made on financing Naftogazu. These are the guys who told us that they're the great managers of today, that they can lift up the oil and gas sector. These are the guys who sent millions of dollars to their moms, and they don't know why. Unfortunately, the potential of Ukraine and the Ukrainians is not being used, the potential of previous managers is not being used, nothing is being used. And it goes on and on and on and on and on. So I urge everyone on the 173rd day of armed aggression to return to their senses and sanity, unite and start anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u23	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. In harmony with article 28. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's one minute for? On the order of the day? There's no such thing as daytime. About what? By order of me? It's called procedure. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have done a lot for Ukraine to become a candidate for EU membership. But European integration starts with political culture. No European Parliament has the same attitude in any room as it is now. Jan Zinkevich tells of the Hospitaliers, four of whom are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u25	Turn off the microphone, please. Irina Volodymyrna, no more of this blasphemy will be in the hall. I say again, you've taken the procedure, you speak the procedure, and morality is given three minutes here. Let's move on, dear fellows. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take part in the signal vote and press the "Pro" green button. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold it simultaneously until the results appear on the board. Heads to vote? Dear colleagues, sensory voting. People's deputies, please vote. Oh, my God, the signal vote. Excuse me. [[12:37:31]] For 252 Thank you. 252. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. So let's move on to the agenda. For your consideration, there is a question about the election of members of the High Council of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is about the election of the members of the High Council of Justice. According to article 131 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Supreme Council of Justice consists of 21 members, two of whom are elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For the time being, two members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are vacant. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, together with the Supreme Council, conducted a competition for vacant posts for members of the Supreme Council of Justice, which resulted in four nominations for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of part 8 of Article 208 with the prim badge. The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the decision of the Main Committee on Special Review, the conclusions of the Ethics Council, as well as the documents submitted by candidates for the post of members of the High Council of Justice, were made available electronically through SEDO on July 15, 2022. We agreed on the Conciliation Council that according to article 208 with the prim badge. This will be the order of the Supreme Council to deal with the matter. A report by the Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy – up to 5 minutes; a statement by candidates for the Supreme Council of Justice – in up to 12 minutes, i.e. 3 minutes each; responses by candidates from Ukrainian national deputies to 24 minutes, 6 minutes each for each candidate; 1 minute for a question, 2 minutes for an answer; statements from MPs and groups to 16 minutes, 2 minutes for a performance; speeches by nationals from national deputies to 6 minutes, 2 minutes for a speech; and decision-making. It's all set for up to 1 hour 10 minutes. Do we accept the order of the day? Then let us move on to the question. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to our first regular talk. I invite you to speak to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Denis Vejacheslavovich Maslov. Please, Dennis Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u26	Honorable Presidium, fellow national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! I would like to begin with the words of our President, who I fully share and support. In Ukraine, judicial reform is not the first time, he said, but will be brought to an end for the first time. Every Ukrainian citizen wants to finally see a real judicial reform, because it is the basic element without which any structural, real structural reconstruction in the country cannot be achieved. Without an effective judicial branch of power, without the trust of society to the judges, there will be no justice for which many have given their lives on the Maidan, and now our defenders continue to give their lives on the front. The very sense of justice is a fundamental value that distinguishes true democratic countries from authoritarian and totalitarian regimes that use people exclusively as a tool and as a resource. Our partners, who are helping Ukraine to defend military aggression, in the war with the Russian Federation, also want to see the implementation of judicial reform. For the first time in 30 years of our independence, Ambassadors of the European Union, Britain, and the United States saw the political momentum and willingness of the country’s political leaders to recharge, including the judicial branch of power. We need to keep this impulse and take the important step that Ukrainian society expects of us today. Finally, we have to appoint members of the Supreme Council of Justice from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I recall that on August 5, 2021, the Ukrainian Act on the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice and the activities of disciplinary inspectors of the High Council of Justice became effective. Already in September of last year, a competition was announced to serve as members of the Supreme Council of Justice. In all, 25 applications were received from candidates for the posts of the Supreme Council of Justice. The documents of 15 persons were recognized to meet the requirements laid down by law. After special examination, they were recommended to serve as members of the Supreme Council of Justice. On June 29, 2022, the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine came to the decision of the Ethics Council, according to which candidates for the posts of members of the High Council of Justice (colleagues, here is the attention): Maselko Roman Anatoliyovich, Moroz Mikola Volodymyrovich, Talko Viacheslav Valentinovich, Bunny of Olena Viktorovna — recognized as meeting the criteria of professional ethics and integrity for the appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice. Along with the above-mentioned decision, a decision was taken by the Ethics Council, which approved the list of candidates nominated and recommended for election by the Supreme Council as a member of the High Council of Justice. The Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following the necessary procedures, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council on 13 July 2022, a vote on the election of Maselko Roman Anatoliyovich, Moroz Mikol Volodymyrovich, Talka Viacheslav Valentinovic, as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice and not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the election of Zack Olen Viktoryn as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. Colleagues, very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u27	Thank you. In five minutes, and this is your first training course, yes. Dear colleagues, as we said, we are now moving on to the candidates' speeches. We invite them in alphabetical order. Therefore, a candidate for the post of High Council of Justice, Helen Victorovna Bunny, is invited to the presentation. Please, Olena Victorino.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u28	Good afternoon! Honourable deputies of Ukraine, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I want to start by saying thank you, thank you very much for the address of our defenders, who, every day, risking their lives to defend our hometowns from the aggressor. Individually grateful to the volunteers and people of Ukraine, who have proved with their support that they are worthy of the support of our Ukrainian Armed Forces. In these difficult times, everyone on whom it depends places a special responsibility in strengthening the authority of the public authorities and in building trust in them in society. I believe that the continuation of judicial reform is one of the steps Ukraine must take to become a full member of the European Union. The main objective of the judicial reform is to select judges for office, to monitor their compliance with legislation and to release them if they are violated. Judicial reform, including constitutional reform, is a necessary step, as it is important not only to be able to become a member of the European Union but also to Ukraine and citizens in general. An effective examination of judges and the transparent and legal functioning of the judiciary will increase the community’s trust in it and give confidence in a fair court for citizens and businesses. My experience in law is more than 25 years, of which more than 12 years are judges. In addition, I am a candidate for legal science, that is, teaching and scientific activity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I know that you have a great deal of appeal from your constituents, asking for a parliamentary response to the wrong decisions of the judges. That's why I'm open to every deputy, because only by working together in accordance with existing legislation will we be able to change the judicial system for the better. Your trust is justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u29	Thank you, Olena Victorian. Dear colleagues, I'd like the Ukrainian national deputies to sign up for a candidate. I remind you, one minute for every oral question and two minutes for the answer. Please log in. Arthur Volodymyrovich, one second. Reverend Olona Victorianly, look, and, uh, distinguished colleagues who are going to run. When you're there, there's this earring that you can put on to better hear the questions that you're asked. It's on the left of you, on the left of the bottom. There's got to be an earring down there. Did you find it? I'd like your colleagues at the Council, please. Now. Oh, yes, we did. Yeah? All right, please put it on so you can hear it. Please be the first to sign up for Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u31	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u32	Thank you. Madam candidate, you know, I'd like to pay attention to the political culture that is now being demonstrated in this session room. I wanted to bring this to the attention of the presiding officer at the meeting, but it happened so strangely that the remarks were made to me, not to colleagues who simply don't listen to the speakers or to the audience, even when it comes to our prisoners of war or the situation on the front. And it's actually a very showy attitude towards the opposition in this session room, to what should be dependent, you know, as "the celibacy order," if it's not disturbed by the opposition. In this context, how are you present for the first time in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, how would you describe these hearings, in which atmosphere they are taking place, European, by which scale of the 12-point system you would appreciate the political culture here, and how much is this consistent with European principles and practices? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. I believe that, first of all, while in any position, the main thing is the high professionalism that should be a challenge for all, which will show our society, each stage of any reform, under strict public control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u34	The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Kharkivyan Alexander Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u36	Alexander Bakumov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, madame candidate! Please tell us that the basic principles of justice are the rule of law and the rule of law. I'd like to hear what the rule of law means in your mind. And the second question. The courts, in particular the courts of our common system, can apply the principle of the rule of law or only the widest extent of the rule of law and thus shift the very principle of the rule of law to the second line? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. The concept of the rule of law states that every person is equal before the law and no one can be punished differently, except as provided for by the existing legislation in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, laws and criminal liability only on the basis of a court decision. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u39	Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, according to the Rules for the election of members of the High Council of Justice, there is a need for at least two couples to run. Your candidate hasn't even passed a profile committee. Does this mean that your participation here is a formality to ensure a corresponding number? And you know, also my second question, for the first time in my long political practice, I see a case where the chairman instead of noticing those present who don't listen to your speech today, or your colleagues' speech, and calling them to a high political culture that would correspond to the Parliament of the EU candidate country, makes a note of the opposition that the opposition does not have the right to call on colleagues to be Parliament. Tell me, please, how you feel comfortable in the hall where the opposition listens to you, and most of us see, yes, it communicates, laughs, talks, and it's the parliament of a warring country, and it's the chairman who doesn't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u41	I'm sorry, I'm going to take advantage of the right to reply, because the chairman is the one today, and I have the right to answer that. If anyone heard anything wrong, it was literally seven minutes ago that I called for order in the hall. And if someone manipulates their moralism by covering up for Europeanism, it simply betrays your own badness and worthlessness. Thank you. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. I want to point out, even though I'm not recommended by the committee, but I do want to point out that I, as a person who may be assigned to this position, and as an acting judge who understands from the inside all our daily problems, think that I can make a worthy contribution to the construction of the rule of law, where a strong and independent court will act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u43	Thank you. And the final question. She's Vadimovna Zinkevich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u45	Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that the faction of European Solidarity has taken the election of candidates for the Supreme Council of Justice very seriously. We've been meeting candidates, we've been listening carefully to all the speeches, we've been asking questions. And that is how the MEPs of the European Parliament should act. Of course, our faction does not need any comment on how we should behave in the session room if we are not in violation of the Rules. And we'd really like to go to my colleagues right now, we didn't vote for the presidency, as you know, you chose it, respect it, please, this presidency. The chairman of the meeting asked you, your fellow Members, to act as the European Ukrainian Parliament should. There must be respect for those who speak, respect for the presidency. Let's listen to each other, sit in our jobs. There is no such thing in any European Parliament of the world where you can be.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u47	Thank you. We have concluded this serious professional discussion. I don't know if you're going to answer the eight-time question that you're going to ask or not. Professional discussion. Thank you, colleagues. Take your place. A candidate for the post of High Council of Justice, Roman Anatoliovich Maselko, is invited to attend. Please, Roman Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u48	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to thank you for voting in favour of the judicial reform called first and foremost for a qualitative change in the High Council of Justice, as well as for our international commitments to join the EU. It also depends on what our justice will be for the coming decades. During Maidan, I defended more than a dozen participants in the famous Automidan campaign to Medjugorje Januković. All of them did nothing wrong; all the reports of the daisies were falsified; yet, the judges deliberately condemned the innocent according to the authority. It was then that I made a promise to myself and to the heavenly One that I would make every effort to punish the judges who then killed their trust in justice. Not for revenge, I do it so that it will never happen again. However, in order to change the system, the punishment itself is not enough — a comprehensive reform that began in 2016. I was a representative, a member of the Public Council of Virtue for four years, whose main task was to examine all the judges. Yet, the RUP and the WCC have been closing their eyes on the hundreds of acts of dishonesty that we have been exposed to. Why? Because they can't clean up the system of glamorous representatives of the same system, it's like bees against honey. That's why my colleagues and I have been actively advocating for a new reform, and thanks to you, it is now being implemented. Now, the main task is not just to fill vacancies in the High Council of Justice -- you have to choose the kind of GDP that can implement this reform. And it's very important that it has representatives of the public sector. I've heard that the only claim to me is that I'm kind of in a position to prosecute judges. In fact, for eight years I have fought for those who violate the rank of judges to be punished, I have fought against corruption in court. Yet, those judges who had experienced real persecution came to me for protection, and I defended them. That's why I'm going to the IDP to implement the main task of judicial reform is to clean up the dishonest, protect the virtuous, and recruit honest and independent professionals. The main thing is to restore confidence in the judicial system and implement the expectations of society for honest courts. Justice and the high authority of every judge in society is my dream and my responsibility. I'm willing to take it on myself, and I believe that you're ready to accept your responsibility for the dream.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u49	Thank you, Roman Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the candidate. And I would like to hear professional questions and discussions. Please sign up, colleagues. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u50	Mr. Chairman, good day to all, please give the word to Mary Ion.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u51	Please, Maria Mikolayovna Ionova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u52	Good afternoon! We thank you for your position and for the protection of the members of the European Union. But we would like to point out that in fact the judicial reform began at the eighth invocation, and unfortunately this is the ninth invocation. We remember the famous Law 1008, which actually blocked the work of both the WCC and the VP. And so far, the work, as you know, is still unblocked, both the WCC and the GWP. So my question is this. Please tell me, do you think it is necessary for the CCW functions to be merged into the GWP or to leave the CCW as a separate structure? Your opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u53	Thank you. That's really an idea to make the VCC a part of the VWP, but I don't think it's right now. Why? Because the processes are now under way, the formation of the CCW is parallel. And that's 22 numbers ending the competition, well, filing applications for applications for the WCC. The international competition commission is waiting for these applications. It's a great start. I believe there will be a good contest, worthy candidates. It should be possible for this CDC to form, work, get the footage, and then return to the discussion as to whether or not it is necessary to unite. I can't see the need for that right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u56	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u57	Alexei Hotcharenko. I have another question. There was a proposal by the President of Ukraine to disband the Kyiv District Administrative Court. This topic disappeared somewhere, disappeared, something lost and silenced. Would you like to hear what you have to say about this, and in general, what should we do with this court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u58	I will not be very objective in this matter, since much of my struggle went on and applied to the Kyiv District Administrative Court. For me, this court has discredited the full concept of justice. It will not be possible to restore trust in this court. So the only possible option, really, is to reorganize or somehow do everything in order for society to see that these judges have been properly tested and punished for what they have done. And what to do with OASK, I think it's, in fact, that it's a concept that has discredited the very understanding of justice and justice and so forth. Therefore, the matter must be closed in the near future so as not to discredit judicial authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u59	Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u61	Pass the word to Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. We thank you for mentioning the important reforms of Parliament's eighth call, both judicial reform and anti-corruption reform. And in fact, it would be important that today's debates on the election of the Supreme Council representatives from the High Council of Justice demonstrate the "Council" channel, because trust in the courts is an important component of the European state. Unfortunately, today the judiciary is highly dependent on the Bank and there continues to be such a very serious influence of "portunship." We know that we still have criminal conduct that was created by Portnow, written by him and introduced over these years, and written in the Kremlin, in fact. So how do you see the influence and position of the High Council of Justice on ensuring the independence of the judicial branch of power primarily from an institution called, more faithfully, not an institution, but a street called Banking? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. It is essential for me, in principle, that every judge and every member of the High Council of Justice be independent of anyone and independent of who chooses him: the MPs, the prosecutors, the President, he must be independent. We heard all of the Wolf's films, where there were influences, there were instructions, and unfortunately they were being followed. I'm going to the ICU to make sure it doesn't happen, I'm not going to let that happen, and I'm not going to give it to others. If I know of such facts, I will report them publicly. That's why I think it's my first priority to make each member of the PDA and every judge independent, truly independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u64	Please, the national MP of Saurasov, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Sergio Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u66	Please, Alekseev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u67	Good afternoon! Please tell me that there was a probationary term before the law for a judge for five years, and then he was reassigned to his post. There is no such thing now after judicial reform. But there are many judges who have completed their five-year term and who are now in judicial status have no jurisdiction over the execution of justice. And the more they get a lot of wages, and in fact they don't do justice, so they don't do anything. Please tell me what your attitude is, how can you solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u68	In fact, that's the problem, and it's very, well, it actually looks strange, because we're very short-staffed in the courts. And so those 300 people who are now judges, but who don't do justice, it's very strange. The only thing, I think, right now, is to run the Higher Qualifications Commission, and as soon as possible, it should be a priority task to test these judges and run, make recommendations about their appointment and solve this problem. In fact, I think we can do this pretty quickly and get these judges back to justice. I'm a member of the IDP, and I'm probably going to do my best to get this problem resolved as soon as possible. Even though I can see for myself that we have to wait for the WCC.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you. We finished the discussion. Zero, zero, zero, you see, you need to reap and take the word of honor, colleagues. Thank you, Roman Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. The speaker is invited to serve as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, Mikola Volodymyrovich Moroz. Please. The show is in 3 minutes. And then questions, dear colleagues, in six minutes. So you have to pressure to fall, because it's not from factions and groups, it's from national MPs. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u70	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to introduce myself for a start. Mikola Volodymyrovich Moroz. For over 25 years, I have been teaching at the National Law University of Yaroslav the Wise, a candidate for legal science, an associate professor. I believe that I have the necessary qualifications to testify to my participation in the Supreme Court competitions. I participated twice in such competitions and went through all their stages, was recognized as able to exercise justice in the Court of Cassation and in the Court of Cassation in the Supreme Court. I believe that the main motive for being a member of the Supreme Council of Justice is to participate in the process of reforms that would contribute to the establishment of Ukraine as a rule of law, to the promotion of the authority of the judiciary in the eyes of society, to convince it of justice, accessibility and efficiency of the judiciary. Many opposers of judicial reform say that the judicial system is good, except for some isolated cases. At the same time, there are problems, and they are problems of a systemic nature. They existed virtually all the time in Ukraine. The need for such a reform, which is of great importance to our nation’s economy, has been repeatedly emphasized by both the leadership of the State and the people’s deputies to the development of civil society. This reform of the court is one of the key conditions for Ukraine's accession to the EU. The problem is the low level of public confidence in the judiciary, the trust of foreign investors. This trust must be restored at the expense of the following steps. First, by updating and forming the judiciary, according to international standards. Only an independent, impartial, competent and virtuous court can effectively exercise justice. This is due to the widespread problem of human hunger in the judicial system. The foregoing results in excessive pressure on judges who continue to exercise justice. In turn, overcrowding of judges leads to numerous violations of both material and procedural law. If I am elected a member of the High Council of Justice in the selection of judges, I will make every effort to win the competition for judges of purely fair and competent candidates. And I also want to point out that the particular problem in this period is that, at this time, so-called traitors of Ukraine have emerged. If I'm elected as an MP, I'm going to be uncompromising, and I'm going to do everything I can to bring such judges to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u71	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the candidate. Please, Bakumov, Servant of the People. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u72	Good afternoon, Mr. President! I mean, there's already been a question about the Kyiv District Administrative Court, but unfortunately, our entire judicial system doesn't have the support of Ukrainian society today. And it's not just in the legislative process, it's not just a matter of the judges themselves who are sometimes unkind and who create such a situation. This is also the attitude of the Ukrainian society, and this is also the attitude of the members of the IDP to the relevant judicial system. So I have a question for you. Please tell me what priority action would be or would you say the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Justice, in order to support the judicial system, restore the confidence of Ukrainian society in the entire judicial system of Ukraine. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u73	Thank you. The thing is, I've talked about this before. Yes, indeed, a low level of trust in the judiciary is probably the biggest problem. I plan to achieve the goal of restoring social trust as follows. I've already said that by updating and forming the judiciary according to international standards. Secondly, let's say that we fill the court system as quickly as possible with new judges who have been chosen at fair competitions, which in turn will improve the quality of justice. Thirdly, I think that it is still necessary for the CFP to be more active in liaising with civil society, and it is necessary to explain its decisions, perhaps possible. Perhaps some decisions, in principle, or many of them are completely normal, are perfectly legitimate, but society needs to be convinced and be able to explain, so there is a need to pay attention, a great deal of attention, to communication with society. I think that the practice of drawing judges to disciplinary responsibility should be one and the same. And this, I think, is also a factor in the possibility of restoring society's trust in judges. Well, and I would like to point out accordingly that, unfortunately, earlier, the Supreme Council of Justice had not differed in its constructive work with the legislative and executive authorities. I think it needs to be changed, you need to look, let's say, in this collaboration, constructive. And this work should be geared towards the development of the modern system of judicial Ukraine, to improve it, well, and generally to improve the lives of ordinary Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Schwacko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u76	Dennis Maslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! I wish, like all candidates, success in voting. And please tell me, in the event of your election as a member of the High Council of Justice, please tell me, how do you have great experience working in a scientific institution, at a university, how are you going to implement your knowledge, your experience as a scientist in the work of the High Council of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u78	Thank you. First of all, let's say, work in a scientific institution, it predicts, work in a scientific institution predicts that I have tremendous contacts with scientists. Obviously, I'm going to engage the scientific community to make the best European achievements, the world gains to improve the work of the GWP. Obviously, I plan to be a representative not only of Parliament, but in this case, of ideas that scientists see that specialize in the field of justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Love Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u81	Please, Love Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u82	I have a simple enough question, but this is a question that concerns our voters in particular, how to deal with corruption in our courts. I want to hear the full answer and the real action that needs to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u83	Thank you. I've already talked about that corruption in the courts, it should, let's say, be overcome at the expense of not one, but by complex measures, but it's not just the actions of the High Council of Justice that are being used, although the Supreme Council of Justice should be the key body in this fight against corruption in the part of attracting judges, the uncompromising attraction of judges to disciplinary responsibility, despite the personality of such offenders. I think it should be both the pressure of society and the pressure of the state's organs in general, let's say, the social resonance of the inadmissibility of such manifestations. I think it's basically a positive result. We have seen that violent cases in the judicial system involving corruption are getting less and less with each passing of time, such as, say, judges still consider things like social pressure, such as irreversibility, and refrain from committing such wrongdoing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u84	Thank you, Michael Volodymyrovich. Please take your seat. And the final statement of the candidate to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice. I invite Vjacheslav Valentinovich Talka. Please, Vjacheslav Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today’s demands challenge every member of the High Council of Justice to take all possible steps to fill the vacant positions of judges and to ensure the creation in Ukraine of a virtuous and highly professional court of judges. The vast majority of the judges who work today in extreme conditions, in conditions of war, in conditions of overload, are professional and, to my belief, conscientious because they ensure our citizens the right to legal protection every day. Responding to judges who undermine the authority of the judiciary must be urgent, decisive, and motivated. The urgent challenge today is the development by the Higher Council of Justice, together with the Supreme Court, of a generalization of the disciplinary practice of the High Council of Justice in terms of the legal positions of the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. In particular, this will allow the work of the disciplinary body to take into account the comments made by the Great Chamber regarding sufficient motivation for the decisions of the disciplinary body. It will also allow approaches to be developed for the substantive disclosure of such broad meanings as "gross negligence", "disrupt the authority of justice," "aggressive violation of the law." There must be an immediate process of competition for the formation of disciplinary inspectors, whose tasks and challenges are familiar and familiar to me. In this context, practical materials and tests should be developed to ensure that a virtuous candidate can confirm his ability to exercise the authority of a disciplinary inspector. European standards and practices on disciplinary responsibility show that in some countries only appeals judges are involved on the basis of open competition and practical tasks. Although there are warnings, there is a danger of corporateism. In front of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u86	Thank you. People's deputies of Ukraine are asked to sign up for a question. Please. Please, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u87	Good afternoon! I have such a question to you as to a candidate for a great office of state: what position do you have regarding the fate of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the judges in particular in the context of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. As I understand it, this is about the "Gumenjuk and others" decision against Ukraine, which raises the question of what to do with the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I believe that there is a committee in Parliament that is appropriate, organized by the Council of Judges on certain issues. This is an exclusive legislative settlement: the transition of the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the Supreme Court, since the decision of the European Court did not change the institution; only a change of name took place. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u90	Good afternoon, Your Honor. I have two questions for you. I'm asking you two questions, because I don't hear the answer to the professional questions that the Chamber is asking today, not the political ones, but the legal questions that they're asking you as candidates for the High Council of Justice. First question. How do you feel about the Constitutional Court’s ruling in 2020, which declared unconstitutional article 375 of the Criminal Code to be a notoriously unjust decision? This is about bringing judges to justice for appropriate action. That's my first question. How would you act as a legislator, or would you support the introduction of the relevant standard, articles in the Criminal Code? And the second question. Do you support the establishment, in particular in our state of special military justice, military courts, military tribunals, which would now be conducting appropriate court proceedings in the field of military or military matters? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. The answer to the first question. The criminal responsibility of the judges for their decisions. This is unacceptable. This is possible only if the judge’s direct intention to order an unjust decision is proved. But this is to form as an article in the Criminal Code, I don't think it's necessary, because this article, its danger, is that this article continues to put pressure on the judge, formally violating the criminal case, requiring the material of the case, is interference with the independence of the judge. As to the second question. I believe that there is a specific feature in military time that concerns military personnel and all matters related to military service, and therefore, I think that if there is a need for justification, and on time, such matters have to be resolved by the Ukrainian Parliament. I don't think Parliament's going to be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Schwacko Anton Alexiyovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u93	Good afternoon! Mr. Candidate, I have two questions for you. First question. What goals do you set for yourself if you are a member of an IDP? And the second question. We all know that corruption in the courts is the main problem in our country. How do you see the solution to this problem for yourself? What help do you need from us as the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u94	The main objectives of any candidate and member, more faithfully, a member of the High Council of Justice is to ensure the functioning of an effective corps of judges, a virtuous one. I think there's a question, and it's going to be related to the second question, it's a little bit of a misinterpretation by the judicial system of the concept of judicial independence. Sometimes judges feel that independence means independence from everything — from the Constitution, from society, from the god. To that end, I think that the primary priority must be the transparency of all trials, the integrity and accountability of judges to society. Only in this case, in the case of effective accountability mechanisms, will we have the result of the independence of judges. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u95	Thank you. And the final question. Love Alexander's Shpak. Please, Love Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u96	I give the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u97	Please, Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u98	Dear candidate, we know from your biography that you worked as a disciplinary inspector in the High Council of Justice. I want to ask you a question, tell the hall why you've been released, and is it true that you've been released at your own request? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. I was freed at my own request. The basis for my decision was the decision of the Third Disciplinary Chamber on January 13, 2021, to bring the judge to justice. On January 21, when the text of the aforementioned decision appeared on the Web site of the High Council of Justice, I without hesitation wrote an application for exemption. Because, in my opinion, the decision was completely unmotivated. In the following six months, the Grand Chamber overturned the above - mentioned decision of the High Council of Justice. That's all I have on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Please take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to performances from the MP factions and groups. I'm asking you to sign up for factions and groups, colleagues. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u101	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regrettably, the discussion of candidates for the IDPs has turned into an exchange of political slogans and screams rather than a discussion of professional problems. By the way, it was a good question of what to do to eliminate corruption in the courts. The answer is very simple: first, don't take the money to the courts; and secondly, stop calling the main offices in the courtroom, and there will be no corruption in the courts. That's the first time. And a second thing to do. We need to carry out a real and profound reform of the judicial system. By the way, reform. Here, some of the storytellers were talking from the rostrum and on the issues of outstanding reform in the 16th year, so I want to remind these storytellers that the 16th year reform is declared unconstitutional. And by the way, the 1008, accepted by this Supreme Council, is also declared unconstitutional. So, you know, there's a lot to talk about, but you have to remember a little bit: the only thing that's going on in this Parliament is the transfer under full external control of the selection of organs that are involved in disciplinary and professional matters by judges. That's the only one who was called plus all of that. We already have the NAB that was assigned to us by foreigners, and we have other law enforcement officers. The only thing that doesn't work in these organs is that everything else is good. I would like to emphasize again. By the way, some colleagues here are going to reform the judiciary, but they have forgotten that most of the powers of this Parliament have been handed over by the High Council of Justice to the disciplinary inspectors. And a large number of authority that has not yet been exercised, more faithfully, by the Supreme Council of Justice, will now be exercised by disciplinary inspectors. And the last. Unfortunately, today's vote will in no way affect the work of the GWP, because there will be no quorum in the GWP. The quorum in the GDP will only be formed in October-November this year. That's why we're voting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u102	Please, "Serve of the people," Danuca.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u104	Dennis Maslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u105	Colleagues, this Parliament is already proud of itself. It was this composition of Parliament in 2021 that adopted a bill that eventually changed approaches to the formation of the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Commission. Now we're doing this in a more open way by testing the integrity of candidates, including representatives of the international community. So know that you have something to be proud of. This is the first time. Secondly, today is a very symbolic day, because it is up to Parliament to decide first with its candidates to form the High Council of Justice on a new procedure. We must not waste the trust of our society and our people. Today, I am sure that we are obliged to select two better candidates from the four who were handed over to us by the Ethical Council. Today we must vote and support the best. Today I call upon all the political forces, all the factions, the MPs to express their position and finally to send representatives of our delegation to the High Council of Justice. Know that order and law will prevail in our modern state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the judicial branch of power has been reforming my memory for the last ten years. But someone has reformed to the point that in a common village of 10,000 people, no judges can be found. We retire, we don't get new ones, because he's rude and everything. Believe me, we're going to be choosing members of the I.R.P., so imagine that the reunion of judges on the left side of the I.R.P. has to provide candidates. At present, the meeting of judges has moved this issue to an indefinite date. And the current election of the members of the R & D. I wanted to ask you a question, and so far, what will you do if there is no quorum, do your work by law, and the time will go? I want to break the myth that after today's election for the first time in history, as annotated, something will change. Nothing will change, but it is necessary, conceptually, in this room, to decide once and for all on the criteria of judges, on their selection, appointment and the possibility of the execution of justice on behalf of Ukraine. And those law enforcement authorities, who are now more than ten or eleven, who are empowered to fight corruption, are, unfortunately, corrupt, to perform their functions, to document, to take precautions, and to refer cases to court. Then this will be a clear and clear model of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna. I understand that, Alexei Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u109	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are told that we have something to be proud of in this room. I didn't understand anything, and what am I supposed to be proud of? This Parliament has declared judicial reform one of its most important objectives. Can you please tell me what to be proud of? Today, there is neither a judge nor a judge in the country, nor a Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, nor a High Council of Justice. The Supreme Council of Justice lost its quorum February - February 22. It's August of the month. War, invasion, that's all clear. But why were we unable to select these two candidates from the Supreme Council for almost six months? What prevented us? Where are the other members of the IDP? We have a complete collapse in the judicial system, a complete collapse. We don't have judges to deal with cases. We don't have judges, well, just at all. But we have judges who had a five-year term. That deadline is over. And since they can't be assigned, they just sit at home and get 70, 80, 90,000 dollars a month, doing nothing at all. I mean, not doing anything without leaving the house. And we're told we have something to be proud of. Tell me, what, what are we supposed to be proud of right now? What has been done in the Ukrainian judiciary that Ukrainian judiciality has become like something human rather than some form of abuse? I don't know. So, of course, today we have to pick two members of the IDP. I say let's finally pick the others. Let us unlock the gathering of judges. Let's get a quorum of VP. Let's start expelling judges who are a disgrace to the whole country. Let's finally appoint judges, including young people, who are capable of showing new quality, because otherwise all of this is another conversation and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the final performance by factions and groups. I invite you to the words of Jaroslav Romanovich Jurčin, faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u111	I agree with my colleagues that we should be proud of what we have done. We are now in the process of carrying out judicial reform, unfortunately, rather at the stage of correcting previous mistakes. Indeed, to correct them requires a full amount of R & D. Today, as the Supreme Council, we can do our part, not being so proud, but doing our job, and choosing those whom we have taken from us according to the procedure we have agreed on, especially with the participation of our international partners and experts. We have recommendations from the Ethics Council, we have recommendations from the public, we have recommendations from the committee. And so we urge you to vote, the Voice will vote for Roman Maselko and Mr. Frost, who are recommended by the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we still have speeches from the people's deputies, up to six minutes. But I'm going to ask you a lot of questions, and after that, we're going to vote. And I'm stressing again: let's put all the information, all the decisions that are made in this room, we're going to make it public 30 minutes after this meeting. Once again, let's follow this corporate informational ethics. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies and then we will proceed to the vote. Please. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u114	Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u115	Friends! Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I said the main thing, I want to add something else to you right now. And I'm talking to every national MP right now, and no one can see us except you and me, so let's go to the kitchen, and we'll talk. And tell me, please, how long will this be a disgrace to the Ukrainian national deputies? To everyone: to me, to you, to everyone, regardless of the faction? I have a simple question: why is anything but the Supreme Council of Ukraine visible in the network of the Council? Well, why can't someone explain it to me? Here, Head of the Supreme Council, I would very much like to hear the answer. There's a board slot on the national marathon, why isn't there a council? Why can't we write down our meeting with respect and in a few hours, when we break up, security will let us show people that we're alive, that we're going to work, that we're doing something with you, because people are just laughing. Why can we be bullied and taken away by diplomatic passports in the 225s and each of us with you? Why? When there's an article on the status of a national MP, which clearly says that a diplomatic passport is given to every national MP on time for his duties, and you can't take it away. Why is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs treating us this way? How can this be allowed to wipe one’s feet? Why do we have it? When was the last time there was a government? Where's the government? You and I are going to work. We've always been here since the first day, on February 24, we got together and voted for the state of war. We were here in March when Russian troops were under Kiev. Where is our government? I forgot what they looked like. Why can't we even ask them questions? I understand that it will soon take each and every one of us to put a little bit on our backs at the entrance, and people will applaud. But, I'm sorry, it's not Parliament then. What's that? Come on, guys, let's respect ourselves!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u116	Please, Lopushian Andrew. Excuse me, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u117	My word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! The highest support, the 100 percent support of Ukrainian society, today comes from the Ukrainian Army, the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The lowest support, one of the lowest, unfortunately, has a judicial branch of power. Why? Because there is a huge demand for justice in society, a huge demand for the independence of the judiciary. And it's obvious that we are with you today, when, at last, as my distinguished colleague Alexei Honcharenko, the faction of European Solidarity, found time in six months to select the representatives of the High Council of Justice, we have to choose purely professional and independent people. There are people here with whom we had very different discussions when we were in power, sometimes sharp, but respecting their professionalism, independence, and the great work that Mr. Roman did as a lawyer, for example, to protect the rights of families affected by the Dignity Revolution. And we will be very happy to support his candidacy. At the same time, we expect this session hall to finally realize its own responsibility at a time when the Ukrainian Armed Forces defend the European principles of nation-building in order for us to contribute to the independence of Ukrainian judges. And the very right Alexei Honcharenko, the faction of European Solidarity, when we talk about what Ukrainian society wants to know, who today is elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, what are the arguments that we have asked about the representatives of the future High Council of Justice. Please tell me, why is there no Supreme Council of Ukraine on the "Council" channel to explain the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? There's anything, there's counselors, there's counselors, there's outposts of the President's Office, there's cats, there's dogs, there's anybody there.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u119	Please, Lopushansky Andry Jaroslavovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u120	I'd like to give Irina Heratchenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, this is a very serious discussion. I want to say that the faction "European Solidarity" has registered the Order on Changes to Enlighten the Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which we propose that the "Council" channel, which is currently unable to broadcast the meetings of the Supreme Council on live air because of security issues, fully demonstrate these discussions in the network of the "Rada" network in the daily marathon, because this marathon has not become a marathon of national unity, and unfortunately, a marathon of censorship. And, by the way, it's very important that the distinguished candidates for the post of High Council of Justice pay attention to the human rights violations that are taking place today under the terms of the state of war. The state of war, self-restraint, great responsibility, military censorship is all justified today. Unfortunately, we have the worst case and example of political censorship. Mr. Roman, we're back in the days of Yanukovich. When we had the political censorship, the black lists, the closing of the mouth of opposition even in the session hall, and unfortunately this was applauded, there were also characters in this sector who applauded the political censorship and the suppression of opposition, and in fact we think that the power of the state is, first of all, the principles of European principles, the independence of the court, the freedom of speech, the need to allow the three closed channels to work and to stop demeaning the Ukrainians with stupid humor, the mats that are broadcast there, and all of this finds, you know, the support of the Supreme Council Presidency, you tolerate censorship because today you have not made a decision to explain the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the record. We demand this decision to put it first tomorrow, to vote for it, and finally to allow our voters to understand that Parliament is working, we have not escaped.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u122	Dear colleagues. I'm still like the Presidium, as a member of the Presidium. I am very sorry that a person who was a member of the Presidium has not been able to determine for so many years in the Rules that order is formed, not by the Presidium, but by the Conciliation Council. Thank you, colleagues. Let's finish. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. In accordance with article 208 with the prime badge. The rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will now be passed by each candidate separately. The Supreme Council then elects the members of the High Council of Justice to be elected by a list determined on the basis of the basis of the number of vacancies, by an open majority vote of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I remind you that we have two vacancies. So let's move to the alphabetical order of each candidate separately. I will name the name, the name and the father of the candidate, and you will be determined as to his support. Dear colleagues, therefore, the first candidate. The rating vote is being voted by Helen Victoria's Bunny. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:47]] For-137 Dear colleagues, the candidate Maselko Romana Anatoliyovich is in charge of the rating vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:13]] For 203 Dear colleagues, the candidate for the ranking vote is Mroz Mikoli Volodymyrovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:39]] For 291 Dear colleagues, Talka Viacheslav Valentinović’s candidate for the rating vote is on the table. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:49:04]] For-79 Dear colleagues, therefore, based on the rating vote, the largest number of votes was won by the Frost of Mikola Volodymyrovich and Maselko Roman Anatoliyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to proceed to the final vote with the list. Pursuant to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 208 pr. I am voting on the issue of the selection of the list, as determined by the rating vote, by the members of the Supreme Council of Justice of Moroz Mikli Volodymirovich and Maselka Roman Anatoliyovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:08]] For 258. I hereby declare that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has elected members of the Supreme Council of Justice from the Supreme Council of Ukraine Mroz Mikola Volodymyrovich and Maselka Roman Anatoliyovich. Let's welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 217 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 19 of the Supreme Council of Justice Act, member of the Supreme Council of Justice, in plenary session, swears as soon as elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honourable National MPs are invited to take an oath at the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s rostrum by Supreme Justice Council member Moroz Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u123	I, Mr. Mikola Volodymyrovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the independence of the judiciary, its function on the grounds of accountability, accountability to society, the formation of a good and highly professional judiciary of judges, compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, and professional ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. I personally want to thank the Supreme Council for such confidence. I will make every effort to justify it by my conscientious and qualified work in this office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u124	Thank you. Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Honourable National MPs are invited to take an oath on the stand of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u125	I, Maselko Roman Anatoliyovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the independence of the judiciary, its function on the basis of accountability, accountability to society, the formation of a good and highly professional judiciary, the observance of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws and professional ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you for your confidence. I promise to justify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us once again welcome the members of the High Council of Justice with their election to positions of responsibility and wish them fruitful and professional work for the benefit of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, personally, from the forerunner, we must do our utmost to make the judicial authorities feel in power. It's in your hands now. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the following questions. Dear colleagues, once again, I'm talking about the dissemination of information. I'm asking you very much because we still have a big day today. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next question. This is a draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the state of war in Ukraine. We agreed, this is a matter of discussion, but I'm making a proposal, this is Bill 7664, to consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:55:10]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed, we have two related issues: first with discussion, second with no discussion. And I invite you to the speech of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Alexia Mechaslavovich Danilov. Please, Alexia Mechaslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u127	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Taking into account the ongoing widespread military aggression of the Russian Federation against our country, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine has considered the Council's proposal to extend the military state in Ukraine by 90 days. The proposal of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine was made on the basis of an appropriate submission made on August 1, 2022 by a member of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, General Zalezhny. The Board members unanimously supported the decision. As a result of the Council’s consideration of the proposals, the Ukrainian President’s decree was issued to extend the duration of the state of war in the country from 5 p.m. to 30 minutes on August 23, 2022 for 90 days. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine introduced a corresponding draft Ukrainian law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the Ukrainian state of war. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u128	Thank you, Alexia Mechaslavovich. Dear colleagues, do you need a report from the chairman of the committee? Let's move on right away: two in, two in, two in. Write down who you want. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u129	Please give Mary Ion's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u130	Please, Maria Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u131	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! All of us, both in power and opposition, are united by a single disaster and a common enemy. Because Russian invaders, the invaders are cruelly terrorizing our peaceful cities and villages, and it is clear that the cause is to put an end to political strife and internal wars in time. Because cats and rapists in Butch, Tristan, Irpen, Mariupoli, in other cities, did not ask about political belongings, about political views, killing our children and people. They even cared about the language of communication. Hence, from the first day of full - scale aggression that we have warned about, we have called for and called for unity of power and opposition. And we ask that we do this not only in words but also in action. Thousands of our Partymen are fighting in the ranks of the U.S.S.A., volunteering at the TRO. And we've been helping since 2014. And the amount of aid that we, as millions of Ukrainians, have also counted for the needs of the U.S.S.S., it's consistent with the help of one of the NATO countries, because it's about millions of euros. We are all proud of this, and we thank all the citizens of Ukraine who support the army. The last example is 350 drones that will become army eyes, and 11 Shield armored helicopters. But why try to discredit such activity and devalue it? It demeans millions of really Ukrainians. And we ask you not to humiliate the Hospitals or the community affairs or the other volunteer organizations that do this. We are also working on a diplomatic front to bring Ukraine closer to membership in the EU and NATO and to our joint, joint victory over the horde. So we ask you to stop both the harassment of Jana Zinkevich, our leader and the heatting, the persecution of other volunteers, and I'm talking about Julia Kuzmenko, and Reef, and Jana Dugar, because this is not the time. I call on colleagues who represent the authorities to stop provoking internal opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u132	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the war is on. Our partners support this difficult and challenging struggle. I ask you to support the President's initiative to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u134	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Thank you, Valentina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, ladies and gentlemen, dear supporters of Ukraine! It's clear and clear that the duration of the state of war we're going to continue today, we're going to continue for 90 days, so we're going to continue the overall mobilization. And by doing so, let us address Parliament, the only parliament, the attention of all authorities, the mobilization of all statesmen, military personnel, people in the authorities and places of transfer of the entire state, all powers of the state on the war line, to the state of war, to the clear fulfilment of your duties in the areas of securing the Armed Forces, to provide territorial defence, to ensure the protection of the country as a whole. Yes, today we know and want to declare from the rostrum of Parliament as a faction of Fatherland we support and expect in the hall the emergence of sectoral sanctions against the aggressor country, sectoral, personal and economic sanctions against all those associated with the Russian Federation: legal persons, natural persons, nadra, ports, the National Bank of Ukraine, licenses -- we are all ready and will approve. We call on the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to bring the President's decree of 5 August of this year to Parliament. Ten days as the Supreme Commander has decided, and ten days there is no document in Parliament. Enter, it's also a mobilisation and it's also a defence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u136	Heroic glory! The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni. Samantha Bobrowski, please, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u137	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, dear colleagues, I don't know how you do it, I don't know how many of you go to your brigades, battalions and so forth to the front, but I'm very sorry to see things sometimes happen in the session room. As everyone, from April to April of the month, turned to the rails not of war, but to the routes of scrambling, deciding and returning more or less, especially in areas that are non-frontier, to peaceful cases that were up to 24 numbers, and, unfortunately, to reports of huge terrorist attacks. If you go to a non-frontier area, you'll see another part of Ukraine live, and you don't live with what Kharkiv lives with, lives with Mikolayev, Zaporin region, Dnipropetrovska and so on. You know, the state of war is not just about the presence of military administrations and the authorization of the heads of military administrations, it's not just about the presence of a curfew at one place or another, it's about the fact that we have to understand that never, as it was before February-March 2014, and then 24.02.2022, will never be. It will not be that your children can quietly go to September 1st or this year, or a year or 10 years later, after 15. But are you ready for this? No, it's not. What do schools or education systems do now, starting with kindergartens, schools, higher national institutions, that have three years of introductory campaigns and the learning process itself? Where are we in this process? I'm sorry that we're inviting the government here, that he's afraid to come here or that he's refusing. Because one story, when we're talking to the General Staff and the Ministry of Defense, and another story, when all of the civilian directions are actually, they're closed from communication and they're not reporting publicly. I'm sorry that the economy has disappeared so far on the rails, and zero explanations publicly or in the newspapers, calming us down and taking the currency out of the street, that doesn't mean everyone's calm. Everyone understands the depth of the problems that have been coming to us since September and what will happen to us since November when the heating season starts, and what will happen when the enemy fires critical infrastructure. Dear colleagues, it's not the time for two days to discuss what.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u138	Please, Aresonkov. Dear fellows, will no one speak again? Then I ask you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, and then let's move on to making a decision. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u139	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP. I would like to express my deep respect, respect, gratitude to the representatives of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, our representatives of the voluntary battalions and associations, the representatives of the law enforcement agencies, the volunteers, the medics -- all those who are now serving and defending our land. And it is clear that only a consolidated effort will speed up our great victory, and the moment that the last invader leaves our land, peace and peace will prevail in Ukraine. We're all getting close to winning. Unfortunately, today we are forced to continue the term of martial law, but we believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine (registration number 7664). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:26]] For 328 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we're on our way. And the law is passed in general. We immediately agreed, without discussion, to vote on the following issue: 7665: draft law approving the President's decree on the continuation of the general mobilization period. I therefore propose to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of general mobilization (registration number 7665). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:07:20]] For 328 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next question 7667, it will be discussed. But we agreed on a brief discussion. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Union, the European Council, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the parliaments and governments of the member states of the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Conviction of an act of nuclear terrorism, which is being carried out by the aggressor State at the Zaporozhye nuclear power station in Energodar Zaporez. First, I propose to include Bill 7667 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:08:23]] For 310 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:08:43]] For 278 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, are we two in favor, two in favour, or do we have a reporter? Olga Mikhailovna Smagluk-Vasilevska. Is she there, isn't she? Don't insist. Yes. You insist, don't you? Please, two minutes, and then two minutes, two minutes, no. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the draft Ordinance on the Recognition of the Russian Federation by a Nuclear Terrorist Country, and to help ensure that Rosatem, as well as all the natural, legal persons associated with this company, are under the sanctions of the countries that are just defending our nuclear security. And we also call on all countries and the United Nations to introduce a peacekeeping mission to the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant, as well as the MAGATE experts. Also in this regulation, we call for the exclusion of the Russian Federation from the member states of MAGATES. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour, against if it is against the issue. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u144	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u145	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Obviously, the faction of "European Solidarity" will support this call to international organizations to condemn Russia's actions as a nuclear-terrorist country. But we know exactly what you and I know, seeing it as full-scale. The full-scale war Russia is waging today against Ukraine and against the whole free world in our territory, that Russia does not need additional provocations to continue its crimes to continue killing, raping, destroying and using now and nuclear terrorism. Therefore, our joint task today of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to triple our efforts with you on the diplomatic front in coordination with our executive authority in order to completely isolate the Russian Federation from its abilities and capabilities in organizations such as MAGATE, the United Nations, in order to stop undermining the international order and international rules that today should determine our ability to defend ourselves with you. And I hope that Mr. Head will listen to the proposal that we have sent from our committee and will hold a joint meeting of our Committee and Committee of Foreign Affairs with the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other responsible persons to ensure that we have clear priorities, clear tasks and work together to help our military to maintain the military front by a diplomatic parliamentary front. And one point. Mr. Head, when you have comments about the procedure, it means that the Supreme Council Rules provide for silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u146	Since you have approached me, I too will use the Rules. About the silence, once again, he spoke a few times before and carried out his duties as Head, and it's always something, well, it's on everyone's conscience. Thank you. Please, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u147	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Our faction will vote unanimously in favour of this Order on the Russian Federation as a terrorist state that threatens the world with nuclear terrorism by shooting at the Zaporez nuclear power plant in recent weeks, Russia, which is in fact already in the process of taking action that does not apply to Ukraine's issues, is a matter of the planetary scale and nuclear catastrophe of a technogenic one that may be stronger than that disaster that occurred at the Chernobyl AES. We understand the consequences of Russia, but in our agony, before the Armed Forces of Ukraine conquer the aggressive war of Russia that it is waging against Ukraine. Russia is taking extreme action. And, of course, our task, the Ukrainian government, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is to ensure that from all the important organizations of the world, the Russian Federation is excluded and that critical sanctions are imposed on those people who are essentially fuelling the technological catastrophe that these terrorist acts of the Russian Federation can cause. And we also call on the nations of the world to recognize the Russian Federation as a terrorist state and to stop any civilized communication with that country until it carries out its aggressive actions and bears full responsibility for the war that has been waged against Ukraine. The world must be safe, safe, especially if nuclear safety is involved. Ukraine has demonstrated all the years of independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u148	Please, National Deputy Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u149	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u150	Please, Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, you know very well how to communicate with international partners, and I am convinced that many of you do. But it seems to me that nuclear terrorism, what the Russian Federation is doing and showing, is already the last drop for a mere requirement, a total requirement for full isolation of the Russian Federation, starting with a requirement that, unfortunately, we have some very little of it coming out of March, from the end of February, a ban on extradition, including the various categories of citizens, including the opposition, from the Russian Federation. Which of you is going to Zaporozhye district, is well aware of the state of the community, the population of Zaporozhye region, and how they actually feel through the waters of Nicopol and Marganez, as often as they are being shot down every night and every day. But I'd like to pay attention to something else. In addition to the international dimension and how MAGATE "pasts" to go here (in paws), and how the Russian Federation requires the arrival of the Zaporez nuclear power station only because of its temporarily occupied territory. I'd like to pay attention to something else. I was very sad to see the last few meetings of our Energy Committee. Let me explain why. Because it was a matter of discussing the safety of other nuclear power plants. I represent the Plainshine, which is located 100 kilometers from the border with the Republic of Belarus, Ravenska (Varaska) nuclear power station. And I want to tell you that the security situation that was prepared until 24.02, and the other AES, he wanted to be better. And what we actually have, don't give God, is going to happen in the South with the Mikolai district (I remind you, there's still one nuclear power station there) and, don't give God, in different ways, in particular the desert, there's going to be a threat created by the Plain AES at a time when the head of Energoatum Cotin, who represents far from Ukrainian interests, but, let me put it this way, represents the interests of the Russian state, I have reason to say, and I believe that the Supreme Council, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u152	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u153	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. My fellow Members, I would like to remind us once again to all and representatives of the different countries of the world that, until now, Ukraine and many countries of the world are experiencing the effects of one of the world's worst technological catastrophes of the 20th century, an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station, which has forced hundreds of thousands of people to change their place of residence, which has caused not only our country's vast territories to experience the effects of the infection that cannot be achieved in full economic activity until now. So what it takes to be savages and barbarians in order to put thousands or perhaps millions of citizens at risk and at present at risk. Of course, we demand today as a country to take Russia as an aggressor state, a nuclear terrorist state to participate in meetings, in headquartering, and to make decisions at the level of MAGATE and other energy security organizations. Today, we demand that in the territory of Zaporozhye’s AES, which is much larger than Chernobyl, we demand that the United Nations international mission, together with MAGATE, be allowed to liberate this territory as quickly as possible and do whatever is necessary to ensure that the Zaporez nuclear station is fully operational.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Union, the European Council, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, parliaments and governments of the member states of the International Atomic Energy Agency on the condemnation of an act of nuclear terrorism carried out by the aggressor State at the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant in Energodar Zaporezki district, project registration number 7667. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:20:54]] For 301 Decision taken. The decision is taken in general, taking into account the committee’s proposals. Dear colleagues, next. And then we have a whole bunch of bills that we agreed to vote on without discussion, so please don't leave your jobs, and I'm going to put them on as usual. Again. The day-to-day procedure? Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who presided today, I think three or four times he repeated requests for information on the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And what we're saying is that literally 20 minutes ago, this information came out, I understand, from a member of the Committee on Legal Policy of Sergei Demchenka. So, colleagues, I would very much like to make sure that, you know, we don't have double standards in this room. If we agree that we have 30 minutes after the meeting of the Supreme Council, everyone will hear it. And in this case, even though we didn't vote for the presidency, I want to be a lawyer and our faction of the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because Mr. Stefanchuk addressed the room three or four times in perfect Ukrainian language, asking to explain the activity in 30 minutes. Unfortunately, the information is out. And in that case, our faction doesn't see the possibility of hiding the same information that the session is going on right now. Well, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u156	You know, it's probably the first time I've agreed with Irina Volodymyrna today that I honestly just can't figure out how else to explain to people that the feeling of hajpu shouldn't cloud the sense of security in this room. [[Applause]] I don't know how to talk and talk to you. Don't you realize that decision-making centers are under constant threat, and that's why the Presidium, members of all factions, are doing titanium work to get us here, to vote here, to make the necessary decisions, and to go on doing the parliamentary work. I just can't figure out how to be so irresponsible. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Let us turn to questions related to an unconscionable discussion. Well, then let's work even faster. A whole series of questions without discussion. The next question is 7549. This is a draft regulation amending certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the name and subject matter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk, Lugansk Region and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, national minorities and inter-national relations. I'd like to make an offer to accept the entire draft of Decree No. 7549. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:24:33]] For 291 Decision taken. The next issue is Bill 7622. This is a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the members of the Financial Action Group to combat money-laundering (FATF) for the exclusion of the Russian Federation from the FATF and its inclusion in the list of high-risk countries. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:25:19]] For 304 Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the members of the Financial Action Group on Money Laundering (FATF) on the exclusion of the Russian Federation from the FATF and its inclusion in the list of high-risk countries. Please, 7622. Please vote and accept it as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. [[14:26:03]] For 305 Decision taken. The next question is 7605. It's not a discussion either, we agreed. It's a second reading, no one's going to fix it. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the optimization of certain issues of forced alienation and the removal of property under the legal regime of martial law. Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] 7605. Olga Mikhailno, look, we're holding consensus councils for this when factions and groups. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, one second. You want to put 179 on the table? Let's see if that's your authorship. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, 179 amendments to Vasilevsky-Smagluk. She's been rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you need a minute. One second. Stop! Stop it! Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, number 179 refers to banning the state of war, as well as the year after it was completed, the corporation of forests. It's a very pressing issue right now. Because if we look at the experience of companies that were corporateized or created by DP, for example, Ukrispirt, Skrudprom, Konystura Ukraine, then the creation of DP just helped to bankrupt these businesses and to destroy entire sectors. I'm asking you to support 179 revisions to prevent forest corporations and create DP during the war period. And then after the war, we'll see if it's appropriate to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I'm placing 179 amendments to the National MP Vassilevsky-Smagluk. Please vote. [[14:28:38]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, look, let's do this. We're discussing all the issues at the Conciliation Council so that we can vote now, so I'm very much asking your representatives at the Conciliation Council to decide these issues. What's the amendment number? Now, one second, we're going to specify. [[B in m in s a l in]] Would you like to speak? One minute. Buymaster, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, this right here has a direct bearing on this bill, because if we're going to move strategic enterprises somewhere, especially double-dealing, they're going to need electricity. And whether we're going to buy this electricity in Europe on a 400-euro spot market, or if our producers are going to produce 86, we're going to make a decision right now in this room with this right. So I'm asking you to support this exercise, colleagues, and to support our energy sector, which is part of a very dangerous and very complex heating season, and to provide our enterprises with cheap green electricity. Forget about the myth that "green" electricity is expensive, don't believe Russian propaganda, support regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u160	274 amendments, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:30:50]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the optimization of certain issues of forced alienation and the removal of property under the legal regime of the state of war (registration number 7605). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:31:35]] For 278 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is also uncontroversial, I hope. 7453, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on "On compulsory government pension insurance" on the possibility of excluding the period of the period of insurance to calculate the pension during the state of war, introduced in accordance with the Ukrainian Law "On the Legal Regime of Military Status". It's 7453. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[14:32:19]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt Bill 7453 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:32:47]] For 296 Decision taken. And we agreed, I'm proposing to adopt Bill 7453 as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:33:16]] For 291 Decision taken. The bill was adopted in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Dear colleagues, the next bill we don't discuss is 5748. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to combat infringements in the field of labour. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to accept this bill as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:33:58]] For 296 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5748. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:34:23]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. Another bill that we agreed on without discussion is 4558. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve government regulation in the field of pesticides and agrochemicals. From the procedure? Please, Ivanna Orestovna. Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see that we have such beautiful European flags in our daily life, especially before this bill. I'd like to point out that he needs work, and I hope that his colleagues will be working on it. In fact, in this context, I would like to point out that when the agenda is being prepared, I would insist that the chairman of the committee, if there is no committee head on this day, the first deputy or secretary of the committee be required to be invited to a meeting of agreement in order to give its position to the committee for the adoption of decisions and the preparation of appropriate agendas. Thank you. I hope you'll take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u162	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on improving state regulation in the field of pesticide and agrochemicals (registration number 4558). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:36:07]] For 266 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for the amendment proposals to prepare for the second reading of Bill 4558. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:36:33]] For 239. Decision taken. The next bill, with a flag, says Joanna Orestovna, also agreed, without discussion. 7581, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to improve the emergency care system for the population at 112. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:37:11]] For 295 Decision taken. I propose to adopt Bill 7581 as the basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:37:35]] For 290 Decision taken. I propose to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill 7581: the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve the emergency system for the population at 112. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:38:07]] For 246 Decision taken. Let's move on, Your Honor. Another bill is 7420. We also agreed without discussion, this is a draft law on introduction. It's a second reading. So no one's going to insist on repairs. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on certain issues of implementation of Chapter 5 of Chapter IV of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, on the other hand. I propose a second reading and, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7420. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:39:01]] For 275 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill 5737. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Settlement of Patients with Empathetic Medical Devices. We also agreed to vote without discussion. Therefore, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Settlement of Patients with Empathetic Medical Devices (Registration No. 5737). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:39:46]] For 276 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5737. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:40:15]] For 243 Decision taken. The next bill, without discussion, is Project 7365. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on strengthening administrative responsibility for violations of the system of establishment and execution. and the use, excuse me, of registration plates for means of transport. I'm proposing to include this Bill 7365 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:40:55]] For 259. Decision taken. I'd like to make a proposal to adopt the Bill's registration number 7365 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:41:21]] For 263 Decision taken. And I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7365. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:41:46]] For 243 Decision taken. The following Bill 5337 was arranged without discussion. It's the second reading, no one's going to make any changes. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization and Mobilization (registration number 5337). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:41:51]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, too, no discussion. 6222. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Elimination of Discrimination against a Sender for Violations of Weight Control Requirements (Registration No. 6222). I'm proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:42:33]] For 288 Decision taken. I propose to cut back on the proposal and amendments for the second reading of the bill (registration number 6222). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:39]] For 245 Decision taken. Shortlined lines. Next bill, 6230. We agreed, too, without discussion. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving civil protection legislation. I would like to make a proposal to adopt the provisions in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the draft Law 6230. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:23]] For 293 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6230. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:51]] For 245 Decision taken. Then there's another bill that's out of the question. This is Bill 7506-1. One for confirmation, right? Now I'm going to state the name of the law. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the exemption from the taxation of charitable aid paid for the benefit of members of families of injured and killed participants in hostilities while participating in arms aggression and ensuring Ukraine's national security. One amendment. Who's it gonna be? Arthur Volodymyrovich, please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u163	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please place number 32. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u164	32-a, right? You'll have to say an argument or something. You don't have to? Dear colleagues! 32th, right? 32 amendments, and it was counted by the committee. At the same time, Arthur Volodymyrovich asks for confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation of the 32th amendment. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:20]] For 251 Decision taken. Now let's move on to the decision on the bill. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Exemption from Charity Taxation paid for the benefit of members of families of injured and killed participants in hostilities during participation in arms aggression and ensuring Ukraine's national security (registration No. 7506-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:47:07]] For 292 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7644. We said we're voting on it as a basis and as a whole taking into account the committee's proposals. Discussed, discussed. [[B in m in s a l in]] But we agreed with the discussion, didn't we? Dear colleagues, 7644, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:47:59]] For 293 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:48:21]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favor, two in the opposite direction, and we move on to making a decision. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u165	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to a colleague of the Kucherenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u166	Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we understand the essence of this bill and, of course, when it comes to paying the salaries of our military personnel, we can't be against it. But at the same time, this bill provides for an increase in NAC Naftogazu's funding of 12 billion dollars for gas. We don't mind this operation, but I want to ask the authorities and the governing coalition. Please tell me that NAC Naftogaz has not been able to launch the Derjaudite structure so far to find out and conduct audits, so far we don't have, and even the government and government headquarters don't have a gas balance, and we can't figure out if this money is needed. Therefore, for the second reading, we warn you, all these questions must be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u168	Please, National Deputy Bujansky Maksim Arkadijovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I would like to address those who are now providing our air defences by broadcasting what we are voting here. Dear colleagues, if you have any interesting thoughts, you are read in your telegrams, if you have a very good slogan -- you are also read in your telegrams, and if you have nothing but hajpu, except the news that you first report to the whole country, then no one will even remember who wrote it first. You don't have to chase the hippie, you don't have to ignore security, because we have a responsibility to the country, we're part of the government. As for the question that we're meeting here, the budget. When there's a phrase in the budget to "give money to the Armed Forces," there's nothing to talk about, there's nothing to support. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u170	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I don't know what the motivation was to apply the regulations on Naftogaz. They may be important, but I'm sure they can get through. I do have an offer to find a way out and vote on this bill as a whole. We have a bad budget situation, bad, that's such a soft word. We have expenses after these changes to the budget for only defence and security will be 1 trillion 200 billion. For the sake of understanding, we spent just as much last year on everything — social security, construction. And this year now, and this is not the last change, we're going to spend 1 trillion 200 billion on security and defense. What we're voting on is 86 percent going to go to consumption costs, 65 of that, or 131 billion, is just pay. For the record, we make no more than 80 billion dollars a month as a nation. And if we return the VAT on time, probably even less. Everything else is either printed or borrowed. Let me remind you, military spending can't go. That's why we have a budget problem. And once again we try to vote some discounts, some extra expenses, it's all going to be printing money in Nazbank. And this 270 billion, they're also going to print it. God damn it, then Nazbank can neutralize them with the cash he's going to have. So, unfortunately, honourable colleagues, I certainly don't want to vote in favour of this law under any other circumstances, because it's going to affect the course, but we have to do it. And if the question of Naftogazu has become so separate, okay, let's put it into a separate bill. I'm sure she'll get support. But for this law, unfortunately, we must vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u172	Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, regarding this bill, "European Solidarity," of course, will support it both on the basis, and in general, because that is its key point, it is the money that targets the security and defence sectors, the Ukrainian army, our Alpha, on everyone on the front today who is protecting Ukraine. But I also wanted to highlight two very serious points during this talk. You know, it's not a secret that there are very strange press conferences today, like the Security Service that they call me or the owner (or who?), the manager of various botophers. And that's what they have, sorry, time and people. And they spend taxpayers' money on it at a time when they don't have enough money to catch those who repair fire. I would also like to say that today, over the last few months, when Peter Poroshenko is on the front, and he's going to hand over the equipment, the drones, the serious military assistance, the armored ones to the parts that the next day with the same equipment, armor and drones, he's being followed by a counter-intelligence. And, I'm sorry, do the Security Service have the money for that again? That's why I have a big request: to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to spend the people's money to fight the aggressor and to figure out who his real enemy is. The enemy is not the opposition. The enemy is the Kremlin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The question is big and megaactive, it's a question of financing our army. I still hope that's after. First, let's vote for the basis. Please invite the national deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the first proposal. Adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 (registration number 7644). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:56:49]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm calling again, it's a matter of financing the army. The procedure is by Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Maybe you'll change your mind. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u175	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Fatherland faction supports the draft law in the first reading, without taking into account the position of the committee included in this bill on the issue of Naftogazu. If the Supreme Council is now ready to vote without taking into account the committee's conclusion, just the financing of the army, we are ready to support this bill as a whole. If there is still a position on financing Naftogazu, unfortunately we require that we leave the vote only in the first reading, and cut the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u176	Sergey Volodymyrovich, we can't change the committee's decision. One second. Dear colleagues, one minute now, if you'll excuse me. Dear colleagues, let's do this if this is the limit of compromise. I just got off the phone with my colleagues, and they confirmed their readiness. Confirmed, right? They confirmed their willingness to vote in the second reading and in general without taking into account the committee’s proposals. Are you ready to vote money for the army today? Dear colleagues, then I make an offer to accept in the second reading and in general. Now, just a second. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. On the basis of this, it's not a second reading, it's just a general vote, right, in general, without taking into account the committee's proposals that were made, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2022 (registration number 7644). All right, colleagues, have you all figured out what we're voting for? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:00:05]] For 287 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill 5091. At first we had one deal, now we can vote on it. Please don't break up, we're voting right now. I'm proposing a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law 5091, this is a draft law guaranteeing property rights for immovable property that will be built in the future. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:00:56]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next Bill 7363, is a second reading related to him. This is a bill amending the Law on Volunteering in Ukraine to support volunteering. We also agreed that we could vote on him immediately. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Law on Volunteering on Volunteering (registration number 7363). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:01:51]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. That's next, Sergey Volodymyrovich, isn't it? Okay. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill, 7364, is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to promote volunteering and non-profit institutions and organizations in the context of Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine. It's a second reading, as I said. There will be some adjustments that will put colleagues on the stand. In particular, the Fatherland faction handed me seven amendments. Are there those who will make adjustments? None. I mean, it's just an amendment to the confirmation. And there's a 30-by-30 amendment by Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkov. Then, with your permission, we'll go first to the Fatherland Corrections. I invite you who will report the bill, Your Honor? Danilo Alexandrovich, take your seat at the rostrum. Please, amendment 5, 9, 24, 25, 27, 42, 51, this is going to be Fatherland, I understand, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u177	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, all the amendments listed above have nothing to do with volunteering. They have been introduced into a bill in grave violation of article 116 of the Rules. In particular, the 5th amendment defines the concept of housing and non-residential property. What this relationship has to do with volunteering is completely incomprehensible. In doing so, it is suggested that buildings and gardens should be added to non-residential properties. In our view, the proposed amendment in this way can make the situation worse in the countryside. So I ask you not to support this amendment, it has nothing to do with volunteering or anything else. So it has nothing to do with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u178	Please take a brief seat of the committee, and we vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Indeed, sinners, we repent. This amendment has nothing to do with volunteering, as has other amendments to the regulations on the taxation of construction work and related to Bill 5091, which we have just voted with you. It was a political decision to put these norms into the hall at the same time in this bill and mainly in the bills, and at the same time to support them. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u180	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's move on to making our decisions. Once again, the 5th amendment was taken into account by the committee, the National MP Vlasenko puts this amendment on the stand. The chairman of the committee is asking for support for this amendment. People's deputies please vote in favour of amendment 5. [[15:05:14]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 9. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u181	Thank you, Mr. Head. I don't know with whom were the political arrangements for making completely corrupt, lobbyist amendments to the bill. The 9th amendment says that now the objects of joint investment will not be objects of taxation until the builder passes the housing over to the buyers. Can you please tell me if he never passes? What if he disappears? And if he doesn't build this apartment at all, these costs will never be an object of taxation, according to the logic of the authors of this amendment? Once again, no political agreement on corruption, no exemption from taxation of entire sectors of the national economy can go into any language. Once again, the amendment mentioned does not have anything to do with volunteering, even though the honourable reporter has shown genuine repentance in this regard. But once again, I emphasize, this has nothing to do with this law, please make another law and enforce it as a separate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u182	Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, in fact, this amendment has nothing to do with volunteering as much as it has nothing to do with corruption. Law 5091 introduces a new subject of civil rights, MON, we call it, a future object of real estate. And these real estate objects are taxed on a cash basis. So taxes are paid at the time of receiving the funds. This is agreed with the industry, in line with business. You don't have to look for a black cat in a dark room if it's not there, and you have to turn politics into anything if people are trying to regulate building relationships in a country like that is necessary for building and rebuilding the country after the war. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 9th Amendment. I'm asking the National Deputies to take their seats, Your Honourable Colleagues, to make our decisions now. I'm announcing the 9th amendment, it was counted by the committee. The National MP Vlasenko put it on the stand. The committee says that this amendment needs to be confirmed. 9 amendment, please vote. [[15:07:58]] For 203 Decision taken. It's not a decision, I'm sorry. The decision is not taken. 24 fixes, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u185	Thank you, Mr. Head. With all due respect to the head of the committee, which now supports the position of the committee, if you want to settle something, settle in the relevant laws rather than quietly include amendments to a law that has nothing to do with it. Taxing housing and 24 amendments is also about this, it has nothing to do with volunteering or volunteering. Make a separate law, we'll discuss it, we'll amend it, I'll make it necessary, then we'll vote it as the Housing Taxation Act. Not that the Law on Volunteering has some kind of appearance. a series of amendments that have absolutely no relation to volunteering. Dealed with business – no questions agreed with by anyone else – no questions either. Establish a separate law and vote. This amendment violates article 116 of the Rules, has nothing to do with the Law on Volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u186	Thank you. I'll bet. Be my guest, Danilo Alexanderovich, will you? Okay. 24 Amendments to this bill. It's counted by the committee. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, Sergey Volodymyrovich put it on the stand. I'm betting on the 24th amendment. I'm asking the national MPs to vote. [[15:09:38]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Sergei Volodymyrovich, look, well, we see that there's no potential, let me put them in order for the economy, I understand what the decision is going to be, and then we'll put the whole bill in support. Are you still insisting? You don't insist, do you? I'm putting them to a vote. Dear colleagues, the same thing, I'm putting 25 amendments. The same situation, it's taken into account by the committee. Sergey Volodymyrovich is betting on confirmation. The committee insists that it be confirmed. Please vote. [[15:10:26]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The same applies to 27 amendments. The committee is accounted for. The owner's betting on confirmation. The committee's asking her to stay accounted for. 27 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:10:56]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 42. I'm also betting on her for confirmation. I'll vote for her confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:11:23]] For 209 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment that Vlasenko makes for confirmation is 51. A similar situation. The committee's accounted for, it's based on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:11:52]] For 215 The decision is not taken. And we agreed, another 30 amendments. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u187	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the 30th Amendment allows Kabmin’s charitable organizations to determine for themselves whether the recipient of their charitable assistance belongs to those who have suffered as a result of armed aggression. I realize that today there are a very large number of organizations that work and help Ukrainian society, but unfortunately we also have to deal with the fact that the introduction of such standards allows us to avoid paying taxes. Therefore, the request also does not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u188	Committee position of 30 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the 30th Amendment is a major amendment, a systematic amendment, and it has a fundamental impact on the content of the bill, including in this part. That's why I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, 30 amendments, it's partially counted. Yeah? Dmitri Aleksandrovich puts this amendment on record, which has been partially taken into account. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies, the position of the committee you've heard, and I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[15:13:20]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Promotion of Volunteering and the Activities of Non-profit Institutions and Organizations in the Conditions of Armed Aggression of Russia against Ukraine (Registration No. 7364). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:14:03]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 7575. It's our first reading. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of state and municipal property under tax. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. 7575. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:14:45]] For 227 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:15:08]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 2 in favour, 2 in favour. Do I get it right? People's deputies please sign up. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u191	Let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u192	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk, faction of the political party "The Fatherland", the all-Ukrainian union.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u193	Please pass the word to Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u194	Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u195	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Fatherland faction systematically opposes privatization during war and the adoption of any laws relating to privatization, because, first of all, war is an unfavourable condition for the state to sell its own property. This is the first time. Secondly, the myth that the state is an inefficient owner is just a myth, because only 15 percent of the privatized enterprises so far work effectively and 85 are either under a knife or sold out. And the third is, in fact, there are no conditions today and there is no investment climate for any real privatization. We're against privatization as a whole. But this law regulates the sale procedure in the case of tax evasion. And the legislators are suggesting that we don't get the approval of a controlling authority (meaning tax authorities) that would have a tax return. But this law also contains a series of technical warnings. Well, let's say there's essentially a right to pay off a debt to a third person that raises essentially legal questions. Secondly, the bill states that consent is not necessary if the sale contract states that this tax debt will be repaid within six months. But the law does not say what happens if this tax debt is not repaid within six months. So there are real big holes in the law, which is this law, and it's wrong to adopt from the point of view of general ideology and from the point of view of its willingness to be accepted. So the "Fatherland" faction will not support the bill, either in the first reading or in general, when it is put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u196	Please, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u197	Alexia Hotcharenko, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u198	Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u199	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Friends, just now, Mr. Sergey Vlasenko has detailed enough about the technical comments that there are, and the GNEU also has a point to this bill. But I would like to ask these very questions: why do we need privatization today, and why do we need this today? I have a simple question: when we see the members of the Ukrainian government here. It's simple. I, come on, okay, if by the rules of security the "hour of questions" that we're collecting the whole government is wrong, what the problem for today was to invite the minister of social politics of the new one, they'd hear it, what she's planning, what we have here is social laws, the minister of foreign affairs, we've had the topic of foreign policy -- was, the minister of defense, the minister of economy, at least one of them. To make some sort of rotation, at least if two or three were to come to our meeting, the Prime Minister sometimes came to visit us. That's not right. We're a parliamentary-presidential state, and I don't understand how the state of war affects the fact that members of the government can't come here. 400 deputies can come here, and two or three members of the government can't come here, they just have something incredible going on, they can't take a second away from such matters of state importance to come here and explain why this law is necessary, and what we're going to do here, and why it's important here, why it's important to give money to Naftogazu, if it's important where the Minister of Energy is, why we're going to spit on our renewable sources, what we're going to do in the winter, what we're going to do is a million questions. I would like you to invite some ministers here who are not hiding at all for the next meeting. We want to hear them, see them, and talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u200	Alexeiyyovich, since you've reached the leadership of the Supreme Council, I'm just going to let you know that we're having virtually weekly meetings with a very large number of government officials when we're meeting with factions leaders and group representatives. I'd very much like your people to prove your information. I'm just telling you that you say they're gone. They're here, and they're here quite often. Today, the last example on the Conciliation Council was the presence of the Vice-Prime Minister for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u201	Well, because we solved the issue on the Conciliation Council and she said all her positions. It's just for information. If the faction doesn't inform you, I'll inform you. Dear colleagues! Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u202	Please tell Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u203	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, what is this bill about? Now with Ukrainian legislation, if you have tax burdens, you can't alienate property. Accordingly, if you're privatizing and there's a tax debt, and it's in most of our businesses, that's how great a state works as a manager, you can't do that kind of privatization. Accordingly, the law is very simple, it says that such privatization is possible, and the privatizer covers this debt for six months. And I think it's the right initiative, it'll definitely let us unlock privatization. Now, why do we need privatization? We have 3,000 200 businesses in Ukraine, 1 thousand 600 of them are on paper, not physically available, and the other half are not working, and if it works, 85 percent of them are damaged. Losses from state-owned enterprises in 2021 were only negative 50 billion. It would be better if we didn't have these companies at all. When we fear that something will be stolen before we privatize, no, we have already stolen everything. Frankly, even great privatization has nothing to do with us. There's no need for IPAs anymore, and so are other businesses. And when we have a little privatization, and instead of a barn, we have a hairdresser, some warehouse, some place, that's good. Who doesn't believe in privatization during the war, see how we have tenders now, there's an increase sometimes 2-3 times. Some people think differently and invest money in war. So let's still take the right step and support this bill in the first reading, and we can do it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u205	In general, it is hardly because we agreed on a basis at the Conciliation Council. I always keep the arrangements we've been given by the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, once again, we are now considering Bill 7575: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of state and municipal property, which is under tax. Are you ready to vote, distinguished national MPs? Then I would still like the people's deputies, if possible, to be in their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt only a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of state and municipal property under tax. Project registration number 7575. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:25:03]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I bet. Well, let's do it again. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing that Bill 7575 be returned to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:25:37]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be reinstated. Dear colleagues, let's support it so we don't lose it. To return the subject of the legislative initiative to the drafting of Bill 7575. Because if we don't vote now, he's going to be rejected. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[15:26:15]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected. Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, I can ask the faction leaders and groups to come to the presidency of all, please, for a moment. I'm asking everyone to stay. Now we're going to make one decision. Faction leaders and groups, please proceed to the presidency.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u206	Representatives of factions and groups, please proceed to the presidency. "Serial of the people," we have as much of a lack as you are. Can one of the fifteen deputies come along, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u207	Dear colleagues. Please take your seats. Today, one vote that is very important. Please take your seats. One. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u208	Honorary colleagues, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council sign the bills adopted today as a whole by the Supreme Council and send them to the President of Ukraine immediately for signature. I'm reminding you there's a budget with money for the military they're waiting for. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[15:31:32]] For 263 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-15-m0.u209	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not been able to complete our consideration of all matters of the order of the day today, but we will continue to do so. Thank you all for your effective work. We're not closing our plenary session. We work together to win. Glory to Ukraine! We'll let you know about the new session. Thank you. We will report on the continuation of this meeting. Thank you.
