ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our decisions: on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022, as proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 154th day of the Russian Federation's arms aggression against Ukraine. Courageous Ukrainian forces continue to destroy the enemy army in an unfortunate way. Sadly, we, not all our courageous sons and daughters, have returned to our home alive and well. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the fallen soldiers who fearlessly and loyally defended Ukraine’s homeland, independence, and territorial integrity. We also honor the memory of all peaceful citizens who were innocently killed by Russian invaders. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held to predict the results of the daytime voting. Dear colleagues, please take part in the signal vote and press the "Pro" green button. And I'm also reminding you that you have to do this by holding the previous sensor button until you get the results on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to make a signal vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:06:51]] For 245 There is no solution. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Your consideration of the matter of granting an appointment is suggested. agree to the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the Attorney-General. One second. Dear colleagues. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 25, part three, article 131, with a prim badge. The Constitution of Ukraine is under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the Attorney-General. According to article 106, part 11, and article 113, part 3, with a prime - badge. The Constitutions of Ukraine President Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Andrija Evgenović Kostina as Attorney General, the relevant materials are given to you. Dear National Deputies, we have previously agreed on this procedure at the Conciliation Council in accordance with the requirements of Rule 212 of the Rules. A statement by the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court, within 3 minutes, a candidate for the post of Attorney General, within 10 minutes, a candidate for questions from MPs and groups up to 24 minutes, a candidate for questions from national deputies to 6 minutes, a report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement within 3 minutes, statements from MPs and groups up to 16 minutes, two minutes for the speech, and a decision. The total timing is up to 65 minutes. Is such an order accepted? Thank you, I'm in. Let's move on to the question. In accordance with articles 31, paragraph 37, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I give the floor to represent the President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, to represent the Attorney-General. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, as noted by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Stefanchuk, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 25, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine include the granting of an appointment and discharge by the President of Ukraine, from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 131, paragraph 3, of the Constitution. 1 The Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine, submits to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Kostin Andrija. Mr. Kostin is fully in line with the requirements of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Procurator's Act for the Attorney-General of Ukraine. All materials are required for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the President's appointment as Attorney General of Costa Rica is granted. Please support the submission of the President and allow the President of Ukraine, Mr. Kostin Andrey, the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u3	Thank you. In accordance with article 31 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I now give the floor to the candidate for the post of Attorney General of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, Andriy Evgenovich Kostin, for the public declaration of conflict of interest. Please, Andrew Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, since I have a conflict of interest with regard to the vote on my appointment as Attorney General, I declare that I will not take part in this vote. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u5	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a candidate for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, Andriy Evgenovich Kostin, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I am grateful to Mr. President, who has made a proposal for the approval of the Supreme Council to appoint me as Attorney General, for his extremely high trust, and I hope for the support of Parliament. Today, all of us are fully aware of all the challenges and priorities that currently lie ahead of the head of the promised government, whose activities are designed to protect human rights and freedoms, the common interests of society and our state. Especially now, during the most active and most violent phase of armed conflict, which began on February 24 and has lasted more than five months. It's accompanied by a massive act by the Armed Forces of the war crimes aggressor country, which has already exceeded 25,000. It is our joint responsibility to ensure the inevitability of punishment for anyone who committed a war crime, especially for the political and military leaders of the Russian Federation, who ordered the invasion of Ukraine and continued to organize and control the conduct of hostilities. Because of the insolent shelling of Russian military personnel, the number of victims and destroyed civilian and critical infrastructure increases rapidly every day. And we have to stop this terror and genocide of the Ukrainian nation. This will primarily be facilitated by proper identification and documentation of the aggressor’s crimes. And the evidence must be gathered in such a way that all of them are declared admissible in the courts. That is why prosecutors must ensure proper procedural guidance in all such conduct without delay. Ukrainian justice for the involvement of prosecutors will continue to hold criminals accountable at the level of our jurisdiction. And the International Criminal Court, with which it is important to increase cooperation on a continuous basis, will ensure full investigation of military personnel and the leadership of the Russian Federation of Crimes. We now have support for at least 43 countries that have joined the call to investigate crimes against humanity and war crimes committed during armed aggression in Ukraine. The investigation of their own criminal cases has now started in 18 countries, and at this stage it is very important for us to ensure proper international cooperation that will help Ukraine win over a terrorist state. In wartime, national betrayal and collaborative activity are no less evil than the outbreak of war and the responsibility for everyone who worked for the enemy must also be irreversible, especially in the case of overturns in pursuits and this is another of our most important tasks. Because by now we have over 1.5 thousand traitors and about a thousand 700 collaborators. Cooperation with the aggressor state is unacceptable in terms of martial law, and we will evaluate every such fact. We must also ensure the effective implementation of the recommendations of the European Commission's conclusions on Ukraine's application for membership in the European Union. The creation of a system of specially authorized subjects in the area of anticorruption was not only a time requirement but also a part of Ukraine’s international commitments. The State's key anti-corruption body, whose activities are aimed at combating corruption in the highest echelons of government, is the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which is headed by a truly independent and professional leader. Therefore, it is urgent that the Attorney General be appointed as the leader of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office, who will ensure its full, full functioning. Because we must work together to overcome both the external enemy in the field of battle and the internal one, by eradicating corruption by means of an effective anti-corruption vertical. That is why I fully support the position of the President of Ukraine on the need to hold a competition as soon as possible for the election of the new Director of NABU. An important task for joining the European Union is to develop, approve and implement a criminal policy strategy that will define long-term legal and organisational measures to combat crime. The Attorney General’s Office is also involved in this process, which should play a leading role because it is the prosecutors who coordinate the activities of law enforcement agencies in the area of anti-corruption. The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament, justice is a requirement of Ukrainian society. The fight for justice should be the main philosophy of the activities of each prosecutor. Any human being will feel this justice if the equality of everyone before the law is ensured, the irreparability of punishment for his violation, when the rights of the victim or the victim are protected and restored. The role of the independent prosecutor in ensuring justice is therefore crucial, and the role of the independent judiciary is crucial. That is why we share our efforts and support our partners to implement judicial reform, to form a really new High Council of Justice and a Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine. Because trust in the independent and professional institutions of the justice system of the court, the prosecutor’s office, and the attorney’s office creates a sense of justice for every Ukrainian. Without hesitation, he is ready to take up the service of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and devote his work to the service of the Ukrainian people and Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u7	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Dear colleagues, there will be questions for the candidate. I'm still very much asking you to listen carefully in the hall, because there is something that those who don't listen in the hall will then listen to them. So let me ask you, let's show mutual respect for each other. Dear colleagues, please, let's move on to questions. Sign up for a question to a candidate from MP factions and groups. I remind you that according to our Rules, 1 minute for each oral question and 2 minutes for the answer to it. Please ask the national MPs, factions and groups to sign up for a question to the candidate. Please, National Deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u9	Please, Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u10	Good afternoon, Your Honor. There are not so many questions, I would just like to tell you that now, in principle, the question that you raised, about war crimes, about investigation, about the support of our Armed Forces, is to pay particular attention. Because really, let's say yes, the legal system of justice out there, on the front, it's chroming. This applies not only to questions of the Attorney General’s Office but also to the D.B.I. and to other authorities. So please, if you will, when you begin your activities, I am sure that you will be assigned today, please pay particular attention to this. Because our fighters need it on the front today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u11	Please, Andrew Evgenovich, you can respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Roman. You know, from the first few weeks, from the first days of the war, I've been involved in a lot of processes that are directly related to the resistance to armed aggression. And I will continue to cooperate, including with our partners, so that every war criminal in the aggressor state will be punished either in the Ukrainian court or in the international judicial institutions. I would also like to add that we will continue to work with our partners, it has a strong political component in creating an ad hoc tribunal, an international tribunal where they will be punished, I hope, high-ranking aggressors who are guilty of such crimes as armed aggression. With regard to the protection of our citizens, and especially our military personnel, I am confident that the Attorney General's Office will do its utmost to ensure that this protection is properly addressed, certainly, by the features of wartime. And I am confident that if we need help from Parliament, and we need help from Parliament, we will be able to work together quickly to adopt the necessary legislative changes in order to ensure that the rights of our military personnel are properly protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Devajchenko Valentina Aleksandrovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u14	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Mr. Andrey, please state your position on the registration and investigation of criminal conduct under article 442 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on genocide. You mentioned the crimes against humanity, the genocide now committed by the Russian aggressor on our land. From the Fatherland faction, I'm telling you clearly that you're going to get 100% support from both ours and the U.S. Congress and our other partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u15	Thank you. I'm sure that many of the acts, the crimes that take place in our territory and the perpetrators of which are members of the aggressor country, have signs of a crime like genocide. I want to say that we support and highly respect the position of our international partners, who are already taking many steps towards recognizing this genocide internationally. I want to make sure that by working together, and by means of our international partners and friends in Ukraine, I would like to say that, I think we'll go this way and we'll get to the end, to make sure and find enough evidence that these actions not only have signs of genocide, but that these evidences are completely iron concrete. This is very important in our cooperation with our international partners, especially with international judicial institutions, so that all cases transferred there will have ironborn evidence. We cannot allow the case and evidence gathered in Ukraine to prove insufficient to condemn the war criminals of the aggressor country. And that's why the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office as an institution that provides procedural guidance is crucial. I thank you for that question. We will continue to work in this direction not only at the international level but also at the national level. Thank you. And hopefully for the cooperation of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u16	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, the "Resurrection of Ukraine" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u17	The MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" group. Mr. Procurator-General, I have two short questions. Today, in wartime conditions, do you not see the current issue of the renewal of the military prosecutor’s office? That's the first one. We're preparing such a bill with our colleagues. And the second. Today, at the stage of operational investigation and pre-trial investigation, there are a lot of violations both in terms and on grounds, and on conduct, and so on, and so on, and so on, you also know that very well. How do you view strengthening the role of the prosecutor in this matter in order to reduce such violations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. We were discussing these questions, including at a meeting of the Committee on Law Enforcement that took place today. And I want to assure you that now, as head of the Committee on Legal Policy, we have the only vision that we need to restore, create and restore a system of military justice or military justice. But my understanding is that the most effective will be the creation of a vertical model, which will include an appropriate judicial investigation body, an appropriate specialized prosecutor's office and an appropriate judicial institution. That's how I think this structure and this vertical will work effectively. Therefore, on my part, I am fully supportive and active in the drafting of these bills. But once again, the best solution would be to make this a systemic decision, which would include an investigative body, a prosecutor's office, and the possibility of specialized courts or judges with appropriate expertise to deal with these categories of cases. As far as breaking deadlines are concerned. Of course, the coordinating role of the Attorney General’s Office in coordinating activities with the investigative bodies should be strengthened. And this is one of the most important tasks for the new Attorney General. Here we fully support, we understand the conditions of war, we realize that not everything can work effectively, by 100 percent. But our task is to ensure that such efficiency is as possible even in these times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u19	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u20	Thank you. Please give my word to my colleague Galina Mikhailuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u21	Galina Mikhailuk, please. Galina Olegno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude and respect to the distinguished Andriy Evgenovich for his active activity on the legislative and diplomatic front. I personally became convinced of his professionalism when I worked with him in the Interim Committee on Investors’ Rights and in his fruitful cooperation with the Legal Policy Committee. Undoubtedly, an important aspect of the activity is international cooperation and with professional structures, as partners and as well as international organisations. This practice is one of the basic principles of the Law Protection Committee’s activities. Recently, we had important visits and cooperation with the International Criminal Court, Europol, and Eurojust on the problem of investigating war crimes. And my question is this. Do you support the continuation of such close cooperation with European and international partners? And what are the priorities of partnership and communication channels that you plan to focus on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u23	Thank you. I would like to reassure once again the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs who have made a great deal of personal efforts to involve as a country as many foreign institutions and international institutions as possible to help Ukraine investigate war crimes. I am fully confident that the Office of the Attorney General will continue to cooperate actively with all the international institutions that have joined Ukraine since the first few weeks. And I want to remind you once again that such cooperation can only be successful if we are together: the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian legal system, the Ukrainian judicial system, the Ukrainian military system and our Supreme Commander. I think that's the kind of collaboration that's going to be the most successful. Having the relevant experience, as you rightly mentioned, on the diplomatic front and having appropriate communication already arranged with our partners, I am confident that such cooperation will be even more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u24	Thank you. Please give the word to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Andrey, I would like to return to the fact that a special commission has recently been established in the Supreme Council to cooperate in research into international humanitarian and international criminal law. By the way, in the process of creating it, you've also been an active participant, and we thank you for that. I have a question and a request to actively continue our cooperation within this committee to find effective ways to prove the multiple crimes committed in our country against civilians, against children, against the elderly, against women. It has to be, this work together, absolutely successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u26	Thank you so much for that, too, really. It happened that we had just created a temporary special commission, and I had the privilege of participating in its creation. We'll find a format for continuing cooperation with the Attorney General's Office on this committee. I certainly can't tell you right now that I can personally participate in this activity, but I want to assure you that there will be close cooperation with the Attorney General's Office, because that's exactly what I'm talking about, what I'm talking about, what I'm talking about. We have the only enemy. We need to be together to work together to fight it on all fronts: on the battlefield, in national courts, in international judicial institutions, on the diplomatic front. So thank you for this offer. Of course, we will work closely together.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u27	Thank you. The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head, Mr. Candidate. I'd like to give the floor to Mamma's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u29	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u30	An honourable candidate for the Attorney-General, in fact, we would like to say that the key criterion for the Attorney-General's work is the removal of politics, the removal of international political prejudices, and the establishment of order in the law enforcement body as the Office of the Attorney-General. Why? Because the Attorney General’s Office in Ukraine is responsible for the entire work of the law enforcement system. You can talk about dependency, about independence, but the main criterion is to ensure the security of individuals, Ukrainian citizens, in Ukraine, and also to keep statistics that only the Attorney-General has, because the information in the Single Registry of Trial Investigations is only under the control of the General.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u31	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. We discussed this with you at the committee meeting. I think I can quickly answer your questions about statistics. We're working on this with the committee. As far as independence is concerned, I don't think anyone in this room is going to deny a completely understandable postulate -- the prosecution has to be independent, and it's going to be independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze faction "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u34	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Mr. Costin, I have some questions for you. The first question is General Marchenko's case. The man who protected the Santa Claus, who is now back in Santa Claus and continues to protect our South and will conquer it, is still at stake. And when this stop is returned, which will all be directed towards supporting our army? And when will our real-war heroes be cleared of the charges, and we are really going to be dealing with those we really need, the Howlers and others? That's the first one. The second question is personal. After the occupation of Crimea, there's information that you went to Crimea. I would like to know if that was true, and if so, for what purpose? And the third question about your team's footage. Who do you see left behind in the Henprosecutors' Office, whom will you add, and what will be the fate of Deputy Attorney General Simonek? I would like to hear your specific answers to these three questions. Thank you and I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. First, with regard to human resources policy, all matters relating to human resources policy will be resolved after the appointment, if Parliament supports the submission of the President and if the President issues a decree, the human resources issue will certainly be resolved. And how, right now, it's not going to be right to speak, because for them to make decisions like that, you have to learn all the information that is, there is now. With regard to criminal conduct regarding Mr. Marchenk, I think you understand that I do not have access to these materials right now, but I have heard your question, and I will certainly pay attention to this matter. As for travel to Crimea, I really did, I did stay, I went to the territory of the Ukrainian Crimea, which is under temporary occupation -- this was in 2015 and 2018, these were private trips. I don't have relatives in Crimea, I don't have property in Crimea, I don't have any interest in Crimea. I gave the answer to this question more time-consumingly during an interview with the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. This interview is on YouTube, you can see it. These were indeed personal matters that concerned my family. And if you want to hear more, pick up this entry and you'll hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u37	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Dear colleagues, we have completed questions from factions and groups, we have six more minutes, questions from Ukrainian national deputies. People's deputies please sign up for questions. It's actually going to be two people's deputies. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leonidovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u38	Leontijovich, I'm sorry, Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u39	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u40	Thank you. But please pass the word to Ariev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u41	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u42	I wanted to ask you, Mr. Procurator General, what about the nepotism issues? Because there have been so many allegations about you that your wife works as an assistant counsellor for your party colleague, and the wife of the other one is your assistant. I mean, including the SAP interview, you've been asked these questions, and now you're asking the entire Attorney General, not the special anti-corruption one. Please tell me you can guarantee that no relatives or colleagues of the party or yours will be assigned to the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u43	First of all, I can guarantee that no of my relatives in the Attorney General's Office will be working, as far as I know, on them and now there. None of them work. With regard to the issues raised during the competition at the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, this was a very different relationship between the people's deputies and their consulting assistants. As far as I'm concerned, you're still talking about politics. about the party members, you know that the prosecutor's office is separate from political life, you know that very well, and no co-worker of the prosecution can be part of any political party. So the answer to your question is the law: you cannot be appointed as a coworker of the Public Prosecutor’s Office by a person in the political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u44	The word is given to the national deputy Pauluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u45	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your courage to take responsibility for the activities of the prosecutor's office in such difficult times for our country. I would certainly like to thank you for supporting the idea of creating and operating in the system of the prosecutor's office, the military prosecutor's office and the military police and the military justice in general. I'd like to ask you a question. Tell us how you understand the effectiveness of the work of the prosecutor’s office and how you plan to evaluate the activities of the prosecutor’s system itself and of each prosecutor. And finally, share how you put it. What is your goal in the office of Attorney General? Thank you for your answers and wish you success and strength in further activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Maxime, I think the best result of the prosecution's work is not only the number of criminal conduct that will result from the verdicts of the court and the fair punishment of criminals, but I think that the most important sense of justice will be the work of the entire law enforcement system. And here the coordinating role of the Public Prosecutor's Office, a strong but independent prosecutor's office, is fundamental. So once again, I want to say that, you know, I don't want to go back in time and report just the bare numbers of statistics. The issue of statistics is important, but statistics are only one factor in the performance of the prosecutor's office. I think that the successful work of the prosecutor's office will also have a preventive function, because a potential offender who will see that every criminal act ends with a court verdict will think seven times before committing a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u47	Thank you. There's two more minutes, let's ask one more question. National Deputy Kozir Sergey Vijacheslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Alexander Network.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u49	Alexander Alexandrovich Network, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u50	Dear Andriy Evgenovich, well, first of all, we support your candidacy because you have the right experience both as a lawyer and as head of the committee. At the same time, we are interested in a question that has come to light. What do you see about the SAP and the appointment of the Attorney General of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u51	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Alexander, for that question. Once again, I want to assure everyone that the appointment of the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office should be the primary task of the new Attorney General. It was the candidate who won the contest that took place. There, by the way, it's not just about the manager, it's about the first deputy head of the SAP. This is very important for the central body of anti-corruption verticals to work with the greatest efficiency, especially at this time of war, when society perceives no corruption at all, especially in the higher echelons of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is meant to be over with questions to the candidate. Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Take your place while you're at it, Andrew Evgenovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Sergio Konstantinovich Ionushas. Sergey Costinovich, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u53	Dear Chairman, fellow national MPs! Today, every day is important to our justice system. At this time in wartime, our country is particularly responsible for the restoration of justice, the irreparability of punishment for crimes committed, the completeness, and the objectivity of pretrial investigation. This is an appropriate guarantee for the further involvement of guilty persons in criminal responsibility. The Committee on Law Protection today discussed a draft decision submitted by the President of Ukraine on the granting of an appointment by the President of Ukraine, Andrey Evgenovich, the Attorney-General (registration number 7593). During the committee’s meeting, the candidate stopped in the main directions of the future organization of the prosecutor’s office. In particular, he considers it necessary to combat corruption, to start functioning anti-corruption bodies, such as the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, to investigate war crimes properly and effectively and effectively, and to engage in collaborative activities. Colleagues from the committee were able to ask their questions and make suggestions to Andrija Evgenovich, as well as to hear specific answers about further steps in the reform of the prosecutor's offices, changing approaches and priorities regarding the functioning of the prosecutor's offices. In view of the above - mentioned committee, the majority endorsed the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that Kostin Andriy Evgenovich be appointed Attorney General and that a decision be taken. On my own, I would like to add that Andrey Evgenovich and I have worked on the issue of judicial reform within the framework of the work of the committees and the Commission on Legal Reform with the President of Ukraine, so it is perfectly logical to consider the continuation of his work as the head of one of the judicial bodies, the prosecutor's office. Andriy Evgenovich, according to article 131 pr. It fully meets the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 40 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. I would also like to draw the attention of the future Attorney General to the most important of all. on the need for greater cooperation with international bodies in the investigation of war crimes, in particular a more fruitful relationship with the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. Nor should prosecutors be distracted by the question of coordinating the activities of the law enforcement system as part of the fight against crime, ensuring an effective system of prosecutorial authorities, work, including the identification of clear grounds. But at the end of the speech, I would like to point out that the Attorney General should remain independent in his activities, governed by the principles of the rule of law, the recognition of man, his life, health, honor, and dignity. The Attorney General is not only the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, he is also the head of one of the justice organs, so justice, justice, irreversibility of punishment and honour, is what everyone should want and answer the Attorney General, that is exactly what society is asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u54	Thank you, Sergey Konstantinovich. Yes, thank you. Colleagues, please sign up for statements by MP factions and groups. Two minutes for the show. Please, Garden Yuri Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace. Which one of you will it be?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u55	Thank you. Please give the floor to Mother Grigori Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u56	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please. Are you out of town, Gregory Mikolaiovich? Or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u57	Dear National Deputies! Honorable candidate! I would like to emphasize that this is not only an assignment but also a great responsibility from the office of Attorney General. The Attorney-General's side, during the state of war, lies in everything: disclosure, documentation, documentation and assistance to Ukrainian citizens in Ukraine, taking part in and winning future processes in the international arena, so we know how many international processes we have started and where we are taking part. The faithful question of documenting facts that will not be executed and will play an important role in international courts is their interaction. And it's all on the Attorney General's side. We would like to point out that, since the date of appointment, the Attorney General has to follow the letter and spirit of the law, not the political things that have been sounded by the former Attorney General, who has objected to the fact that the reform of the prosecutor's office has been completed. I want to disappoint you that it's not over, that it's going on. And with her problems right now, we need to roll up our sleeves and work 24/7. Having experience. If there is no experience, avoid. But politics must be secondary. Primary is professionalism. We will support the decision, the group, regarding the appointment of the Attorney General, of the candidature. But we want professionalism to end the eternal mechanism for investigating political leadership on the basis of the Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, "Serve of the People," Zari Maxim Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u59	Request to pass the word to Network Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u60	Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I am confident that Andrew Evgenovich will be in his place as Attorney General. I can confirm this on the basis of my experience of working with Andriy Evgenovich and the Committee of Legal Policy, as well as in the Tripartite Contact Group. He proved to be a very high level and his professional training, and he showed that he was not only a truly highly qualified lawyer but also a diplomat. I am confident that his work as Attorney General will give new impetus to the Attorney-General's Office, especially in terms of international activities. We now need to defend our interests in international courts, in the International Criminal Court, and in other international institutions. So I am confident that he will deal with such important issues as the fight against war crimes, crimes against humanity and the acts of genocide that the Russian Federation is now committing. I'm sure that's the best choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u62	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich, "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u63	I'd like to start with what the head of the profile committee has done. This is about the political and party independence of the Attorney General. We had an example during the competition for the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, when, let's say, politically engaged candidates were dissipated. Unfortunately, there is no such procedure in the Attorney General’s selection procedure. And because the classics said, we have what we have. But regardless of the prosecutor's name, which will be chosen today or at any time, we still have the key challenges and the key tasks that, thank God, have been partially echoed today. But if we're talking about the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, it's only one challenge to assign a winner to a competition that, unfortunately, could not be assigned for almost two years. I very much hope that this will happen, at least we have heard the promise. But don't get in the way, don't get in the middle of the wheel, and don't take the case out of the way, depending on whether it belongs to the majority or not, it's the Attorney General's job. Before the law, it's all equal, whether it's Deputy Chief of the President's Office, or any citizen, or a man without citizenship. The second point is to step up the fight against collaborators. The Attorney General has not yet signed a memorandum with the Ministry of Justice in this direction on the provision of information. This needs to be corrected as soon as possible. Military crimes. He did not just talk about it in a lazy way. It is very important for us to gather enough data to win the International Tribunal against the Russian Republic. Good luck!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u64	Thank you, Jaroslav Romanovich. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u65	Honorable Predestination! Dear Mr. Costin! The "Trust" MP is responsible enough to deal with the appointment of the Attorney General right now. And that's why? We are fully aware that it is not the first year or decade in Ukraine that the search for the so - called national idea or the theoretical principles of the positions that should unite our country, our nation, continue to promote its effective development in establishing it as a legal, conscious state. And in this context, it seems to me that the role of prosecutors as representatives of an extremely important legal institution today, the work of the Attorney General's Office and the Attorney General himself is difficult to overestimate. We carefully studied the materials that involved Andrew Costin’s activities. The Trust MP Group believes that his professional experience, his education, especially his activities within the Legal Policy Committee, his cooperation with the Law Enforcement Committee, his effective search today, the resolution of the issues facing the Ukrainian law enforcement system, all of this allows him, as we think, to be successful in the role of Attorney General. We wish him that, and the Trust MPs will vote and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Iris Irina Vasilovna, the faction of European Solidarity. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, this morning began with good news. General Marchenko has returned to the defense of our dear Mikolayev, but still a criminal case has been opened against General Marchenko. Moreover, 16,000 armoured men arrested in this case rotted at a time when our army needed them. Similarly, a criminal case against General Pavlovsky, who protects Ukraine, is open. Perhaps because it is purely political? You know, Mr. Kosten's colleague and I worked together almost in the Tripartite Contact Group, and we know very well that the Minsk Accords of their time stopped the full-scale attack, but still the open criminal cases of the Kremlin agents, even against what we had, along the Kerchny Strait, were our sailors, protecting our marine space. Why? Perhaps because the prosecution was focused on political criminal matters. You know, the former Attorney General once said that every Ukrainian should prove his innocence in court. What, then, is the presumption of innocence enshrined in the Ukrainian Constitution, and what is the basis for European law? So once again, I want to point out that our political team, with the start of a full-scale invasion, has declared unity, and we are unfailingly observing this unity. But we will not vote in favour of a staff assignment, it is the responsibility of the authorities. We will abstain and wish to have a candidate who, unfortunately, refused to meet our faction, although the Rules and European Practices require that we ask questions and communicate, first of all to obey the law, to remember those traitors who first fled in so many regions, prosecutors, and to support those honest people who are working in Ukraine today. And, of course, they're in the prosecutor's system.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u68	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u69	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Golovo, Your Honor, the People's Deputies, the Honourable Andrija Evgenovich. The votes for the appointment are, therefore, the "Paternity" team will wish you success as soon as 15 minutes ago to the Attorney General. There are real challenges ahead of you, and we sincerely want you to face them. In fact, the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office has not been completed, and this needs to be discussed openly. I'm impressed with your speech, and you've touched on almost all the serious details that the Attorney General's Office and the Attorney General personally need. Indeed, the military prosecutor’s office today is on the forerunner, but it does not have the authority it should have during the war. And the Fatherland faction will be ready to support your proposals to decide, at the legislative level, whether additional powers are needed to date, because they are addressed to both the military personnel in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations as well as to their families. Let's think about it. In front of you and the new team, the challenge is to lead and truly become the leader, the coordinator of all law enforcement agencies, you talked about this today, because the role of coordinator, unfortunately, needs to be better in the current circumstances. We want you to pay attention to the protection of the identity and property of our citizens, that is, the disclosure of property crimes, crimes against a person. The challenge for the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is, in principle, we want this direction to be significantly strengthened. We wish you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u70	Please, Mrs. Tetian's "Deliverance of Ukraine" please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, it is impossible to leave the procurator’s office without a paralegal in peacetime, and even more so, it is not possible during wartime. The country needs the prosecutorial system to work clearly and in harmony, to protect the interests of the state and the citizen, to ensure the rule of law and order. Clearly, the most important task of prosecutors today is to investigate the colossal array of crimes committed by an aggressor on our land. It is the prosecution’s job to provide evidence for the future tribunal and to do so irreprehensibly, for it depends on the extent to which all war crimes will be punished and whether they will be properly done. Without too much paphos, it can be said that this is what the whole country, every citizen, is expecting from the prosecutor’s office today. Probably the most important task was not for the prosecutor's office for all 30 years of independence, so today it is necessary for such an active Attorney-General, without an "W.O.".. Of course, we expect other achievements from the future head of the Attorney General's Office: reforming this system and moving in the European direction, improving the quality of the prosecution's organs. And we believe that this is where we come together with the views of today's candidate for the Attorney General's office. Andria Kostina, we know as an experienced professional director of the Legal Committee of the Supreme Council. We know him as a real specialist, a lawyer, a person who is ill with his business and who is capable of bearing this serious responsibility. Therefore, colleagues, the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Task Force, will support Andri Kostin's candidate for the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u72	Thank you. The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexanderovich Zelenski, participates in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. We're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Colleagues, according to article 85, paragraph 25, part three, article 131, with a prim badge. The Constitutions of Ukraine put to the vote the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 7593) on granting approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, Kostin Andrija Evgenović, as Prosecutor General. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:21]] For 299 Decision taken. Congratulations, Andrey Evgenovich, congratulations! [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, National Deputy of Ukraine, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, wrote an application for his delegation's credentials, which I now have. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine have put to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kostin Andrija Evgenović, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:36]] For 332 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Thank you, Your Honor. We're going through the second question. And let's thank President Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u73	Thank you, Andry Evgenovich. We wish you success in your new position, and so do we all. Dear colleagues, we have two announcements before we move on to the following issues of the order of the day. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Ninth Interfractional Union "The Ukrainian Way" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Aleksandra Evgenovich, was elected head of this association. Hello! [[Applause]] According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, from the MP's Party for the Future. Let's move on to the next question of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the question of appointing a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. According to article 85, part two, paragraph 26, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint a third of the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. For the time being, one seat of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is vacant under the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On February 3, 2021, the Committee on Legal Policy, on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act recommended that the Supreme Council decide by way of a vote on the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with regard to the five candidates submitted by the MPs and groups. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 208.4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, of the Committee’s recommendation, of information on the results of the special examination and other documents submitted by candidates for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, have been given to you. The Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for the following procedure for dealing with this issue: a report from the profile committee, up to 3 minutes, candidates for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, at their request, is given the floor for a speech of up to 3 minutes, and up to 6 minutes for answers to questions from national deputies. In general, this block is up to 40 minutes. Next, the performances of the MP factions and groups are up to 16 minutes (2 minutes each). Next, the national MPs will speak for up to 6 minutes (two minutes to perform). And making a decision. The whole procedure is up to an hour of 10 minutes, but I have a suspicion that this will be faster because not all candidates have expressed a desire to speak. So we start with a declaration of conflict of interest. We have candidates who are national deputies. This is Mrs. Sougir Olga Volodymyrna and Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich. So I now give the floor to Yuri Alexiyovich to announce a conflict of interest. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I declare a conflict of interest, so I will not vote accordingly in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u75	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Olga Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'm announcing a conflict of interest and not taking part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u77	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. So, colleagues, let's move on to the question. A member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Denis Vejacheslavovich Maslov, is invited to speak for the report. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u78	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine carried out its work and, in accordance with the requirements of legislation, including the Rules, conducted appropriate procedures and processed the nominations proposed to the Constitutional Court. In accordance with the decision of the Committee on Legal Policy of 16 December 2020 (Protocol No. 43), all candidates who have demonstrated their intention to assume the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court in accordance with their respective documents, the requirements established by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court Act have been established. According to the results of the examination of documents and information submitted by candidates for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the interviews conducted with them in accordance with article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, part six of article 208 4 p.m. On 3 February 2021 (Protocol No. 46) the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a vote on the appointment of the Constitutional Court judge, Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovna. It was also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Committee's decision and protocol, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should determine by vote the appointment of Mr. Zuralova Dmitry Volodymyrovich as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It was also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by voting for the appointment of Sir Mikola Ivanovich as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It was also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by voting on the appointment of Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich as judge of the Constitutional Court. It was also in line with that decision that it was decided by a vote on the appointment of Bodnar-Petrovska Olga Borisovna as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Colleagues, I wish all candidates success in the voting process, and I wish the most worthy candidate fruitful work in the capacity of the Constitutional Court judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u79	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a letter from the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Bodnar-Petrovska Olga Borisovna, to discuss her candidacy at the plenary meeting in the absence of her, so we will then consider the rules we have approved. Honourable National Deputies, the word is given to the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Zuravlov Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please, Dmitri Volodyrovich. In three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies, Your Honor, today is a very important and exciting occasion for me to be in this Hall behind this rostrum as a candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It's an honor and a responsibility. I am keenly aware that having the moral right to flutter before the Constitutional Court Court of Ukraine requires extensive experience of a lawyer with a recognized level of competence and high moral qualities. I'm 29 years of law school, I'm a doctor of law, I'm a professor, I have the honor of a well-deserved lawyer in Ukraine, and since my first day as a lawyer, I've been faithful to the Constitution and the rule of law. It was the only thing that always governed my activity and influenced my decisions. Being a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is a huge responsibility, and if I get such an opportunity, I will prove daily that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is fully engaged in its functions, defending the rights and freedoms of every citizen, because it is today that the Constitutional Court is targeting the views and referrals of Ukraine's citizens that our international partners have here. I assure you that in office of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, I will do my job without prejudice, nullifying my own political, religious, social preferences, I will only work by conscience, every letter of every article of the Constitution. I'm sure as a person who's been working on practical legal and scientific work for many years, that's enough for that experience, skills and knowledge. I ask all of you, honourable national deputies, regardless of whether they belong to parties or groups or non-fractional national deputies, to support me by electing a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I will vindicate your trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u81	Thank you. We have a question. Please sign up for the question. One minute for a question and two minutes for an answer. Please log in. Let's get out of here. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u83	Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleague, as you know, the Ukrainian Constitution guarantees every Ukrainian freedom of speech. And the state of war is not an obstacle to freedom of speech, democracy, fundamental, in fact, values that are enshrined in the Ukrainian Constitution. At the same time, under the guise of martial law, someone in power, and we still can't figure out who it is, excluded from the T2 digital language system, and also failed to give a slot in the so - called only teletraphony to three patriotic pro-Ukrainian channels, to which there are no questions, either in the Ukrainian courts or in other organs to determine, if there is a violation, espresso, Primey, and Fifth. How do you think the Constitutional Court is supposed to protect the fundamental right of citizens to freedom of speech and the right of journalists to a profession?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. I believe that the Constitution is the highest legal act that everyone should submit to. And my decision, if I am elected judge of the Constitutional Court, will be based on the Constitution of Ukraine, the principles of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u86	Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u87	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u88	Please, Feder Venislavski, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u89	Mr. candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, please tell me, and how will you guarantee independence in the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in general and your personal independence, particularly from, say, that circle of surroundings that you had in your previous life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. It is not entirely clear what kind of environment we are talking about. I have very decent colleagues and friends. So I will work on my conscience and the principle of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u91	Please, Maria Ionova, "European Solidarity", Maria Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u93	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Candidate, I'd like your answers in essence, not just, you know, just the right ideological ones, we're not in the cosmopolitan congregations. You know, the Constitutional Court dismissed the previous Supreme Council, more faithfully, declared this decree by Mr. Zelensky on the basis that it did not seem to confirm the existence of a coalition. Just now, there was such a sign vote for the new Attorney General, and so - called majority voted 220 for it. I inform you that the same majority is not here for a long time, because the Servant of the People, a majority, gives no more than 220 votes for all the votes. Is the Constitutional Court ready to consider the need for this House to be dissolved on the basis that there is no more monotonousness or that a new coalition is to be created here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u95	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I believe that any submission that will be sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u96	Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov. Dmitri Alexanderovich. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u97	Thank you. Please tell me, because there are many discussions today about dual citizenship. There have been appeals to the Constitutional Court by nearly 100 Ukrainian national deputies. How do you appreciate the wording set out in the Constitution on single citizenship? Can a Ukrainian citizen have several citizenships, and do you think that is right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. If there's a proper submission on the treatment or interpretation of the Constitution, and I'm going to work directly with the judge of the Constitutional Court, I think we're going to consider it in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u99	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u100	Thank you. You know how a lawyer and a lawyer are very interesting to talk to you right now. And I want to point out that there are a number of bills that are now on the expertise of the Venice Commission, particularly the so-called Oligarch Act, which is actually the same way to make the Ukrainian Security Council, which is, by the way, an unconstitutional body, the highest institution in the country that will punish and love. So what do you think, and these laws are already being implemented without having the right conclusions, as you see as a constitutionalist, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to work with the conclusions of the Venice Commission to those bills and laws that are controversial, including our movement towards the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. Well, I can't be responsible for the political decisions that the Supreme Council will make. But I believe that such decisions should be made in a manner that is consistent with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u102	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich. Thank you. Please, we have our next candidate, Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich. The word is given to the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u103	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished citizens, once again, I would like to thank the committee for supporting my candidacy for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. I would like to thank all the colleagues present in this room who, in previous sessions, supported my candidacy for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. I am convinced that in this position I will faithfully and responsibly carry out my duties and responsibilities as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Since the start of the competition, many events have taken place, a country has changed, a country in war has changed, and more than ever today the role, place and tasks of the Constitutional Court have increased: how to ensure the rule of the Constitution, how to ensure the rule of law, how to uphold the principles and values of democracy and freedom of speech, and how to protect human rights. More than ever, these tasks are relevant to the country and, above all, to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine under military conditions. No less relevant will they be after our victory when full, normal life and human rights are restored than they will ever be in the first place in terms of their protection from the possible even aberration of the authorities. At the same time, taking into account today’s circumstances, and in order not to violate the restrictions, the laws laid down for those who are running for office as a judge of the Constitutional Court, I now claim from this rostrum that my candidature has been withdrawn from office as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Please don't put the chairman to the vote, Mr. Head. Don't put my candidacy to the vote. I hope that today will be the Supreme Council's decision to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court, because we need to ensure the full work of this impeccable body for the country. I hope that the person elected today by the Constitutional Court judge, his professional and moral qualities, will not violate the fundamental values on which the work of the judge and the Constitutional Court should be based, namely democracy, human rights, the rule of law, freedom of speech. And no political basis or political relevance will change its main task of ensuring the rule of the Constitution in Ukraine. Mrs. Olga, I wish you good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u104	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Sir Mikola Ivanovich. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u105	Thank you, Presidium, thank you to the National Deputies for the opportunity to speak. First of all, I would like to thank the faction that supported me at the first stage. I would also like to thank the national MPs who, in the last vote, have continued the competition, voted for me, and thank you. In the field of jurisprudence, in the field of judicial reform, I have been working since day one, and, if I make it clear, since November 1987, that is, from the first ideas, I've been in this area and I've been working all this time. Working in the Institute of State and Rights, I tried not only to be a clean scientist but also to represent my position as a society. And my positions are presented in fairly large informational resources like "The Mirror of the Week," like Radio Freedom, other resources, on all the relevant issues that the country has faced, and I'm not ashamed of these positions. In 2015, I participated in a competition for the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. In this competition, I became a finalist too, and I had the honour of receiving the support of an independent commission. From widespread aggression, I did not take advantage of my right not to be involved in protection, the right of a scientist at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I came to the military and was mobilized to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and I carried military service for almost five months in the 130th Battalion of the territorial defense of Kiev. From the early days of aggression, it became clear that this aggression was very dirty and related to war crimes. So starting with April of the month, I was fairly active at the thresholds, and finally I was able to convince myself that I needed to create a proper Centre for the Investigation of War Crimes. This center is created by the Institute of State and Law, and I run this center, and I'm the director of the Centre for War Crimes Research. And the last. Our people are holding defense on the front and today it is extremely important to have a professional defense on the legal front. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u106	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to sign up for the candidate's question in six minutes. People's deputies please sign up. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich Gerus "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u107	Traditionally, please pass on the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u108	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u109	The honourable candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, please tell me, how do you think that this body of constitutional justice should ensure that the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are applied more faithfully to the decisions of the Constitutional Court that they have a bearing on the decision taken by the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u110	Our country is integrated, very actively integrated into European space. And so with every step of this integration, we are interdependent with those institutions that determine the legal logic of life in the European Union. From a formal legal point of view, Ukraine, which has established by its law, is bound by the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. At the same time, in terms of understanding the depth of law, each independent state, including the members of the European Union, continues to discuss the problems that are being addressed before the European Court of Justice and are being resolved before the European Court of Justice. I am convinced that the level of discussion of Ukraine in this constitutional debate should certainly rise. And if I have to do that, I'll do my best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Anton Alexiyovich Schwaczko, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u112	Please pass on the word to Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u113	Please, National Deputy Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u114	Alexander Kowalczuk. Do you agree or what your position is with the latest, or extreme, extremely scandalous decisions of the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u115	It's hard for me to answer your question specifically because you said it was about any final decisions or final decisions of the Constitutional Court. But you have dealt with a very serious problem, a problem of the finality of the Constitutional Court's decision. From a formal legal and constitutional point of view, the decision of the Constitutional Court is final. But I'm glad we're convinced that the final position is the position of the Ukrainian people. If the Ukrainian people are actively responding, including to certain decisions of the Constitutional Court, each state is able to respond to that position and that is absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u116	The final question, please. Slavic Antonina Kerimovna, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." "Ukrainian Rehabilitation," excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u117	The MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" group. Your Honor, you may know that in the cancers of the reform of the Constitutional Court, there is now a discussion that candidates for the seat of the Constitutional Court for the formation of this body should be given a majority vote by foreign experts. Well, actually, this model is now integrated into many areas of judicial reform. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u118	For this reason, my attitude has not changed for more than 30 years. If Ukraine is a sovereign state, all matters relating to sovereignty are resolved by the State itself. At the same time, the modern state, and Ukraine, is a modern state, must live in close association with the democratic world. We need to hear the world, and the world needs to hear us, and this interaction always produces the best decisions. I strongly believe that this is the platform we need to base our search for the best solutions for our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u119	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Please take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Olga Volodymyrni Sougiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u120	Good afternoon, dear fellows! With independence, Ukraine has adopted a desire to develop and strengthen its status as a democratic social legal state in which man, his life and health, honor and dignity, integrity and security are recognized as the highest social value, and the desire is further reflected in the 1996 Constitution. The Constitutional Court has always played a special role in achieving and implementing the values noted. All my professional life, especially as a scientist, was inseparably linked to constitutional law, constitutional jurisdiction, and the work of the Constitutional Court. At this time, I am a doctor of law and a professor of constitutional law at the Institute of Law of the Kyiv National University of Taras Shevchenk. I am also a national deputy, deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy and head of the Subcommittee on Political Reform and Constitutional Law. I was also a member of the Scientific Advisory Council of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. My addition to constitutional law consists of more than 120 scientific and educational works, a major part of which relates to questions of constitutional doctrine and constitutional jurisdiction. I am also the author and co-author of constitutional law textbooks that have been revised many times and the author of the first constitutional law textbook in Ukraine. I am proud that a large number of university law students study constitutional law according to my textbooks. It is a great privilege for me, and at the same time responsibility, and an incentive for continued professional development. In October 2019, I was appointed by the Supreme Council as a permanent representative of Parliament in the Constitutional Court. I have the privilege of doing so until now. I consider my appointment as a permanent representative to be a high professional achievement, since these responsibilities enable me to join in building effective constitutional jurisdiction not only as a scientist but also as a practice. So I firmly believe that my theoretical experience as a scientist and practical experience as a national deputy and as a permanent representative of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court will allow me to make a significant contribution to the further development of the Constitutional Court. I believe that the Constitutional Court can guarantee the rule of the Constitution only if it does not merely constitutional justice but constitutional justice. So please support my desire to join the work of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u121	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. I'm asking the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for a candidate in six minutes. Please, National Deputy Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyyovich, "Delivery of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear candidate Olga Volodymyrna! We will not hide that the reputation of the Constitutional Court in recent years has been somewhat ambiguous. Some court decisions on social issues have caused resonance and even social unrest. That's the question for you. How do you see the future of the Constitutional Court, especially in the wake of its planned reform? How much do we need to make a difference in our activities? Is it okay with the court, but only the questions of the people who will be there as judges? Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. I see the future of the Constitutional Court in transparent procedures. A working group under my chairmanship has prepared a draft Constitutional Procedure Act, which I hope will be brought to Parliament shortly. It is this law that provides a transparent way of shaping the daily Constitutional Court, registering acts of the Constitutional Court, which is very important, the procedures and procedures of disciplinary responsibility. The procedure for hearing constitutional complaints is improving, which are the main instruments for protecting the constitutional rights of natural and legal persons in the Constitutional Court. It is a fairly large document, in fact it is a Code of Constitutional Judiciality. And I am very much asking that Parliament, if it considers it, be sure to support it. Since the legislation on the Constitutional Court must be perfect, it must regulate each stage of constitutional conduct. And this legislation has to be clear, clear, to rule out any possibility of abuse on the part of anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u124	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrically. The word is given to Mroz Volodymyr Viktorovich, the deputy group "Delivery of Ukraine", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u125	Please give the word Slavic Antonini Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Slavic Antonini Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u127	Dear Mrs. Olga, my question is, it will continue with the question of the colleague that he was speaking to you. At the Constitutional Court's address, there are different reproaches, and my personal one is the terms of constitutional conduct, because we have cross-cutting examples, such as the Law on the Cleanse of Power, when the European Court has already spoken its word, and the restrictive measures of interpretation are already ending, and the Constitutional Court cannot make a decision in fact. So my question is, what steps do you see first of all to improve and make effective constitutional conduct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u128	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that unfortunately, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is not unique in this part, and many European courts are also dealing with cases for a very long period of time. But that's not normal, of course, I agree with you. That's why the mechanisms for considering constitutional submissions and constitutional complaints are provided in time by the Constitutional Procedure Act because of the formation of the agenda, so that it's not the same as now that some things are in the order of the day, and other matters, as you say, are not in the order of the day at all. And, of course, due to the responsibility of the reporting judge, who should prepare the case materials in time, give them up in time. And if there are signs of abuse in the matter, that may be the basis for disciplinary action. This is a set of measures that I think should work effectively, at least that's how it works in those countries where constitutional justice is successful.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u129	Please, National Deputy of Ukraine Savechenko Olga Stanislavna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u131	Please, Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u132	Good afternoon, Olga Volodymyrna. You know, questions are asked about how judges are willing to sacrifice their salary, part of their salary, large, for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please tell me, in case we vote if we vote in favour of your candidacy, are you prepared to transfer part of your salary to the Armed Forces for the needs of our military? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u133	Thank you for asking. Yes, indeed, the judges of the Constitutional Court receive a fairly high salary and I think that this salary should be reduced. As far as my potential salary is concerned, I think it's fair, and I will do it, if Parliament supports me, to count a large portion of the salary paid to the Constitutional Court judge for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u134	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. We have one minute left. Let's see the Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Golos". And then we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u135	Give me the word of Jurchishin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u136	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u137	It's a very short question. Please explain how you feel about article 11 of the law that at the time of appointment, a candidate for the seat of a judge of the Constitutional Court may not have a representative mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u138	Thank you for asking. This is not the formulation used in the law of profile, it says that a person should be on the date of his appointment, not at the time of his appointment. That's the first one. Secondly, here's my application to suspend the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy. It's dated yesterday. And it's registered in the Supreme Council. I will ask Parliament, in the event of an election, to vote immediately. In general, there is a conflict between the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act. And under the rules of collegiate decisions, the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine always apply. That's what happened. That's right. And so, hopefully, always will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u139	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the MPs and groups. I remind you, two minutes for the show. Factions and groups please log in. Please give the word to Vladini Darya Artemovna, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u140	Please pass the word to the Venezuelan Fedor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u141	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u142	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today we have an important task with you, namely, to fill the vacant seat of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine from the Supreme Council. We have listened to the presentations of all the candidates recommended by the MPs and groups for this position and who have undergone an open-ended transparent competition, which is determined by the current legislation of Ukraine, in particular the Law of Ukraine on the Rules of the Supreme Council and the Law of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This procedure is fully in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. And as a result of the open competition, we have several candidates that we heard with you today. Of course, all the candidates represented by the Supreme Council are entitled and worthy to be judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in view of their previous lives, of their life experience and especially their professional experience, in which they demonstrated very fine achievements. At the same time, the political party "The Servant of the People" has put its representative out of our political power, namely, the Sougir Olga Volodymyrna. Olga Volodymyrna is known in Ukraine and outside of Ukraine as an expert in constitutional law, which is one of the defining, to my belief, in the decision to vote for one or the other, because it is brilliant knowledge, brilliant experience in the field of constitutional law that allows us with you to be convinced that Olga Volodymiri is worthy to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. During her work as a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court, I, as a representative of the President, observed very often brilliant, systematic, well-founded speeches, which were undoubtedly then taken into account by the Constitutional Court in the resolution of cases. Therefore, Olga Volodymyryn will serve as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u143	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u144	I'm not going to analyze the personal characteristics of any of the candidates. In fact, it's very sad when we don't initially address actual systemic needs -- it's the adoption of the Constitutional Procedure Act -- one of the initiators of which is actually Mrs. Sougir's initiator, and we don't choose an adequate judge of the Constitutional Court on the basis of the changed approach. So we're actually getting on the same rakes that we've actually gotten on before. The next moment. Thank you so much for quoting the profile law. But it makes it clear that on the day of your appointment, you cannot have a representative mandate. If we break the law at the time of our appointment, what can we expect from the Constitutional Court? Well, that's what the previous speaker, the representative of our political team, said very well. The answer to the question of political neutrality seems to have been given by the team’s own representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u145	The word is given to Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u146	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Supreme Council is now considering, in my opinion, an extremely important issue. This is a representative from Parliament to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. For our "Fatherland" team, the Constitutional Court, as the only body of constitutional jurisdiction, this is an extremely important institution in Ukraine. This is the only body that can declare laws unconstitutional. This is the only body that gives an official interpretation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And that's why we think that a candidate who has to be elected by Parliament to the Constitutional Court, first of all, should be a high-level lawyer who is deprived of any political preference who is able to make decisions that maybe even someone doesn't like the leadership of the state. But the Constitutional Court must always take a principled position. And it was particularly strange for us when the Constitutional Court, in completely understandable matters, when it was to recognize unconstitutional, for example, the procedure for the adoption of the Land Act, the Constitutional Court was essentially blocked. That's why we think of it as a faction of the Fatherland that the Constitutional Court has to work independently, without any pressure from the State authorities to make decisions that are constitutional and which increase understanding of what was written in the Constitution of Ukraine. The Fatherland faction will definitely vote and vote for candidates. And I would like to wish to the Constitutional Court, in fact, to keep a high profile of a single body of constitutional jurisdiction that will not fear those laws that do not comply with the Constitution to be declared unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u147	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u149	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, you and I were happy a month ago, clapping our hands when this flag of the European Union was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the granting of candidate status. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that when the European Council adopted this decision, one of the requirements and conditions for the start of Ukraine's membership talks in the European Union was the adoption and implementation of legislation on the procedure for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, including the prior selection process on the basis of an assessment of their integrity and professional skills in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. I've got some questions for us, colleagues. Why, today, before we passed the amendments to the Constitutional Court Act, to the rules of selection, to the involvement of international partners for the verification of integrity, morality, the neutrality of potential candidates for the office of the Constitutional Court judge, we are in an abject order despite all our respect for each member, to every candidate for the post of constitutional judge from the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, we are considering this issue. And I think it's because of what my colleagues have said that we doubt the potential political neutrality of the new candidate that will be approved today. So, colleagues, I would like to take seriously and without manipulation the tasks that we have been given as a candidate country and start working on those tasks and conditions to start negotiations on Ukraine's membership in the European Union. Enough of this simulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u151	Please give the word to Slavic Antonini Kerimovni, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u152	Please give the word to the colleague of Moroz Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u153	Vladimir Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is an integral part of the system of restraint and opposition. In recent years his work has been accompanied by media scandals regarding the interpretation of the rules of the Basic Law and the incomprehensible conduct of individual judges. In fact, the KSU was disoriented and ceased to play its most important role in the state. What can the Ukrainian Parliament do in this situation? The Supreme Council's first order of business is to fill its quota with six Constitutional Court judges who are virtuous, professional and worthy. I'll remind you that last February we together appointed a lawyer and a real technocrat, Victor Kichuan. This choice may be considered successful, but we have yet another vacancy. And in the case of Olga Sougiri's candidacy, I think it'll be no worse. Our colleague's discussion as the future judge of the Constitutional Femida didn't start yesterday or even this year, it might be thought that she's had a successful look. The MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" support Olga Sougiri's appointment as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We are aware of the instructions that Mrs. Olga will take on her new post, since she was now directly involved in political reform and constitutional law in her committee. We also remember well how much it has done in the working group to deal with the constitutional crisis. So we sincerely wish her success in her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the speeches from the MPs and the groups, and we've still got speeches from the national MPs, up to six minutes. People's deputies please sign up for the speech and then we'll move on to the rating vote. Please, Mikhailuk Galina The Alleged faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Maxim Dirdin to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u157	Please, Maxim Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I believe that such an important position as the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine today is relevant and today we will vote for candidates. I call on you all to elect a worthy candidate for this post today. Because great challenges lie before the Constitutional Court and it must already work and work effectively for the benefit of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u159	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy to Danuci Alexandre Anatoliovich the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u160	Undoubtedly, Olga Sougiri’s support for the candidature But I want to give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u161	Feder Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today, there have been plenty of different judgements during statements by representatives of the MPs and groups and Ukrainian national deputies on how to ensure the maximum independence and impartiality of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I want to say first of all that the answer to this question lies in the previous activity of a candidate as a constitutional judge and how this candidate stood up for his point of view. A candidate from the political party "The Servant of the People", whom we recommended in full compliance with the requirements of the law in force, Sugir Olga Volodymyrovna, has demonstrated the maximum independence and impartiality of her activities in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And there were laws in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that were voted by representatives of various political powers. She had never demonstrated any political prejudice. On the other hand, I'm going to tell you a big secret that even when there was a discussion of some of the other bills at the level of the MP's faction of the People's Servant, Olga Volodymyrovna was very strict and very clearly controlling these bills to comply with the Constitution. And if she had any personal doubts that the bill that was proposed for consideration was questionable constitutional, she made it clear. So to talk about some involvement, about some bias on the part of the political party's "minister of the people," there's definitely no reason. I am convinced that it is the Sugir Olga Volodymyrna who will be worthy to represent the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which can delegate it. And I urge everyone to support the decision to delegate Olga Volodymyrna to the Constitutional Court. The People's Servant political party, I'm sure they'll vote in favour, and I urge everyone to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u163	Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u164	Please pass the word to Irina Volodymyrni Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u165	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge today, met with our faction and it was an important dialogue on institutions, principles and values, not on personnel. And now we want to talk about principles and values. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court dismissed the previous Parliament's eighth call on the basis that President Greensky's decree was based on, as it were, political relevance, a requirement of time and no 226 members of the coalition were proved. So I would like to remind you that there is probably no vote in this room for a year now, where there would be 226 votes of majority, which today formed the full power of Parliament. Even today, when the principles for voting power, such as the new Attorney General, were followed, only 220 votes were cast by the majority faction, with more than 240 votes. And so that means there's no big deal in today's parliament. And does this mean that if the Constitutional Court is so principled, it should dissolve this Parliament immediately after the end of the military, more loyal, military state? The Constitution of Ukraine defines the key values on which the foundations of a democratic state are based. Of course, freedom of speech, democracy, the right of journalists to a profession is one of these great principles and values. And notice, the candidate for the post of Constitutional Court judge never once said a word about the totally illegal voluntary closure of the three channels. And what we now see in the session room is, of course, cementing power in one hand, is the principles of an authoritarian non-democratic state, when political appointments continue to take place, and are not based on professional ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u167	Please, Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People." And then we go to the rating vote. People's deputies please come to the hall. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u168	To express your support, please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u169	Dennis Maslov, please, Dennis Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u170	Thank you, colleagues. Indeed, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is a vast institution that has to balance all branches of power in Ukraine. And today, we really are choosing a candidate for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which will have an enormous responsibility at this time of war, in the face of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation, to really make sure that the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine are interpreted and implemented as provided for in the Constitution. I urge all our colleagues to reject all political disputes and to choose the really best, most professional candidate to be elected today as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I consider that to be Mrs. Olga Sougiru, who. And our faction thinks, which has led to a lot of work, both in the walls of Parliament and in scientific activity, and hopefully in the future, an honest judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u171	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. In accordance with article 208 of the Supreme Council Code 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the selection of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall be carried out by the Supreme Council by an open rating vote for each candidate separately. So let's move to the alphabetical order of the rating vote for each candidate separately. I'm going to call it a name, a name, after my father's candidate, and you're going to decide about his support. Dear colleagues, the Bodnar-Petrovska Olga Borisovna candidates on the rating vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:06:32]] For-57 The rating vote is based on the candidate of Žuralova Dmitry Volodymyrovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:54]] For-64 The rating vote is based on the candidate of Sir Mikola Ivanovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:07:14]] For the 110. And, dear fellows, the rating vote is being voted on by Sougiri Olga Volodymyrna. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:07:37]] For 292 Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the final vote. In accordance with article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s 4th Rules, a candidate who, on the basis of the rating vote, received the largest number of votes of the Ukrainian national deputies is eligible for voting. According to article 85, section 26, part two, article 148, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 208, bearing the 4th Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, raises the question of the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to Sougir Olga Volodymyrna. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:08:36]] For 293 So you and I have appointed the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Sougir Olga Volodymyrna. Welcome. [[Applause]] Let us welcome Olga Volodymyrna to her position of responsibility and wish her fruitful and professional work for the benefit of our nation. I'm asking the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we've made. Dear colleagues, don't split up yet. The factions show the final vote. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, National Deputy of the Ukraine of Sougir Olga Volodymyrovna wrote an application for her representativeship. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine have put to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national MP, Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovna, in connection with her personal application for the appointment of a deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:10:03]] For 336 I would like to ask the PSC, together with the Supreme Council, to issue a decision on the consequences of the decision taken, as well as on the fact that Olga Volodymyrovna lost her mandate as a national deputy of Ukraine, to prepare an order to terminate the mandate of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Your Honourable colleagues, Your Honor, let's do it then, because Olga Volodymyrna is no longer a national deputy and cannot be a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court, let's vote for the suspension of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Olga Volodymyrovna Sougiri. I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this decision. And I'll tell you what, after the results of our vote, I'll make the right decision. That is why I am proposing to suspend the appointment of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovna. People's deputies, please vote. Olga Volodymyrna, you no longer vote. [[14:11:22]] For 295 I'm asking the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling as a result of the decision we've made. Now, come on. Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u172	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to remind you that just three years ago there was an election to Parliament, and a new faction came across the slogans of such unabated compliance. And just now, in this important vote in favour of the judge of the Constitutional Court, regulations were broken twice. At first, the judge of the Constitutional Court did not authorize her deputies before the vote. And secondly, you have now voted in favour of having her removed from office as a representative in the Constitutional Court, when there has not yet been an appropriate decision in the Chamber, as appropriate. Please tell me why you are so harshly violating the law by voting for a judge of the Constitutional Court. Well, that's the key to respect for the Constitution. And you're violating it on closed channels. Now that the voters don't see how this is happening, because the Council Channel doesn't work or they show this Patron's dog and whoever it is that isn't the Council's TV channel. We urge you to stop violating the Constitution and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u173	Thank you. I am responding to your comments on the issue of order of conduct. The point is that, in accordance with the position approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the position of the representative of the Permanent Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court, only the Ukrainian People's Deputy can be represented in the Constitutional Court. And that's why, as a result, today we just voted Olga Volodymyrna as the person who made her mandate, we immediately decided to make her terms. Then the decision will be drawn up by an appropriate decision on such matters. So please take Irina Volodymyrna to the book. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we've agreed on three minutes' worth of factions and groups. Right? Can we go straight to the laws? Okay. Then, please, three minutes away from the factions and groups. Please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, there will be a national MP left in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u175	Olga Volodymyrna, that's for you. Only national deputies remain in the hall. Olga Volodymyrna, good-bye. Dear colleagues, have you signed up? Please give the word to Sofia Romanovna Fedini, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u176	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u177	Please, Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, tonight I returned from Odessa's hero city, where unfortunately, the 28th Brigade, the whole of Odessa and all of Ukraine said good-bye to our heroes, the legendary Kombrig of the 28th Brigade of Vitaly Gulyev and three of his fighting brothers who protected Odessa, protected the Mikolai and launched a counterattack in the Hersonian region. Likewise last week, all of Lviv and all of Ukraine are grieving about the fighters of the 80th Brigade who gave their lives in the Bahmutian direction, including our fighting brother Taras, who was in the 80th Brigade since the 14th, defending the Lugani airport. We have to help the families of heroes. And unfortunately, there was a sad mistake, in February, when we took changes to legislation, we canceled a rule that had been in force since the ATO when the welfare of the charity that comes to the families of the dead is not taxed because they are not supposed to pay those taxes. And sometimes a pensioner who gives away the last 100 dollars is more important than anyone, because she gives away the last money. And it is certainly not the families of the dead who are to pay these taxes to the State. I have introduced Bill 7506-1, which corrects this error not only for the families of the dead but also for our wounded military, including the costs they spend on rehabilitation, treatment and medicine. And I'm sorry, God forgive me, but for the first time in this room, I want to thank Mr. Getmantsov and his committee for taking a quick look, putting us to a vote today, and we're all going to vote. The only thing I'm asking is, let's vote in the first reading and in general, and we'll address these issues, just like the 7584, where we've also cancelled wages, except for keeping a job for the military. Two positions: We restore payments and reduce tax liabilities. And the third position. Anti-reradation of the Force. Let us unite and vote for this week. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u179	Heroic glory! Peter Alexiovich, thank you. Voice, Osadchuk Andri Petrovich. Which one of you? Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u180	Railroad, please, word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I'll be literally 20 seconds. I'd like to ask, of course, what are we going to do about the Naftogazu default? But I don't think there's much interest in this important room right now. So there's a proposal to go to the vote. There's a lot of important laws. If we finally look at them, well, it'll probably get a little bit better for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u182	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. It's laconic. In principle, like your cable channel. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, "For the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, first of all, we want to pay attention. Tomorrow we will be celebrating for the first time in the history of Ukraine the celebration of state independence in part of the duration of our sovereignty, statehood, the Day of State. I think we have to show in front of the world that we are a nation with an ancient tradition, more than a thousand-year tradition of Ukrainian statehood, and no one will cross over this Ukrainian state that we have today. We must also vote harshly and clearly, to say our position on the so-called pseudoferendums prepared by the aggressor and terrorist country in the occupied parts of Ukraine. It's not just supposed to be general phrases, it's supposed to be clear action and coordination with the outside world, Western partners and concrete steps on how to harm those pseudo-ferendums that the Russian Federation is going to implement today. We also had a conversation last week with the government, with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, where we listened to agreements reached in Lugano after presenting Ukraine's 750-dollar reconstruction programme for the current restoration of Ukraine under $750 billion. Obviously, I understand that this is not the full amount that we can expect for the restoration of Ukraine. And we understand that Lugano is far away, maybe not a distant future, but a future that we need to live to. And we need to be concerned today about how to take steps to stabilize the economy, the social sphere in the country, not allow any shocks to our citizens. And in this context, I support just what my colleague said before, Mr. Ironman, that we're obviously also concerned about the technical defolt of Naftogazu Ukraine, and, in principle, about the readiness of our country for the heating season. Now we need to know our citizens, and not only our citizens, but also our national MPs, obviously what measures are being taken by the government to ensure that housing and utilities are ready to work under the conditions of Russia's external aggression, which is already blackmailing the whole of Europe by halting gas supply, by increasing tariffs, and we know that gas prices in Europe have gone up to over $2,000 per thousand cubic metres. We must also legislatively guarantee in our sessions that citizens do not grow in tariffs on gas, heat and hot water, as well as a ban on generating debt to the RCP for citizens from occupied areas of combat and for citizens whose property is destroyed today. We have to show our citizens that the state, despite the critical enough situation that is in the economy, does not reject them and will do its utmost to ensure that our fellow countrymen survive both in the occupied territories today and in all the rest of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u184	Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, although our colleague suggested that we not discuss the topic of the heating season and the Naftogaz NAC, but I think this is already a key topic of national security, the funds that we should continue to direct to the military and the defence of the country. One fact is why the prime minister of Ukraine banned the purchase of bonds, Eurobonds owed more than 300 million euros yesterday. How could this happen? And I think a lot of people in this room know the answer, and the commission that the Fatherland faction insists on should answer the question first: who owned these Eurobonds? Who bought these Eurobonds from Naftogaz the day before with a discount of 50 percent and tried to demand more than 300 million euros of these Eurobonds from the State yesterday? This is the question, when the President, the Parliament, the government is looking for every billion dollars to help the army, we find that we have the shares that use this situation of the state. So when they say NAC Naftogaz is actually a bankruptcy, let's start with the head that was directly responsible for the activities of NAC Naftogaz. And as of the 11 billion dollars in profits, the company has managed in almost four months to become profitable and to enter into such debt commitments. So what we're now insisting on is a clear approach, where every bracelet goes, every billion dollars that should go first of all to the army, is the answer to questions that I hope we'll get, including from the government, from an auditorium that is somehow not allowed for a month to be checked. From the Ministry of Finance, which absolutely rightly requires the monthly report of NAC Naftogaz on the gas balance sheet. And I think that's the key question that will answer the question that we're entering the new heating season. Then it'll be too late to wave a check. So I'm addressing the newly appointed Attorney General, this is your key responsibility right now to uncover this adventure from NAC Naftogaz and to answer the key question of whether there will be a country with gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u186	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Kachuri. It's instead of Getmantsev you, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u187	Alexander Kachura is the "Serial of the People" faction. You know, the attacks of the Russian Federation have become so commonplace that for us they've started to blend into such a great amount of pain. Cities, the number of deaths, all cloud the great pain that we all feel without exception in Ukraine. However, it is important to remember each particular case. We will surely be rewarded for all their crimes. Now I'm just going to remind myself of some of the bloodiest of them. Winnitsa, July 14, the city center, lost 24 people. Cremenchuk, June 27th, Amstor TRC, over 20 dead. In the days of Jar, July 9, a five - story building, 48 dead. On March 16, Mariupol, the Dramatic Theatre, killed some 600 people. Odessa, April 23, a multistory, 8 people died, June 28, a massive shooting of the area, 20 people died. Biologics, Lugansk district, May 7, school, some 60 residents died. On April 8, Kramatarski, a railway station, killed more than 50 people. Kharkiv, March 1, the city center, killed 29 people. On March 16, 14 people were killed by the shooting of a residential house. Mikolai, March 29, the ODA building, killed 37 workers. You know, according to the official UN data, more than 10,000 civilians have been victims of Russian armed aggression. In fact, we all know a lot about this, a lot more than that. Are Russia's crimes smaller than Syria or North Korea, for which they have been listed as sponsors of terrorism? I'm here to support President Zelensky, and the Ukrainians deserve justice, to pay for suffering and death. The least they can do, what they can say, no, what they have to do, what the whole world has to do is admit the obvious. Russia is a terrorist state. [[Expression in Foreign Language]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u188	The word is given to Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, a group called "Trust". Dear colleagues, after this, I ask you to invite all the deputies to take your seats, and we will proceed to the vote for the agenda. Then there'll be Pauline, yes, there will be? Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite the national MPs, because we have a large number of laws that we have agreed on at the Conciliation Council without discussion to vote. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich. Then – Pavelina, then – we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u189	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Last week there was a big event for our nation -- this is the signing of an agreement to unlock Ukrainian ports. It is very important that the Ukrainian side signed this treaty with Turkey and the United Nations and signed nothing with the aggressor country. During this time, many media outlets expressed their pessimistic sentiments, especially after the invaders attacked Odessa with winged Calibr missiles. But I want to pay attention to why these negotiations were needed, and what prospects they have for Ukraine and the countries of the world. Unlocking ports is not just Ukraine's economic security, it's a matter of global food security. That is why a huge amount of work was carried out both by the President of Ukraine and by appropriate ministries. Agricultural production has taken the lead in Ukrainian exports in recent years. In 2021, native agrarians sold only grains and sunflower oil abroad for $18.6 billion, and the total amount of agri-exports was $27 billion. For Ukraine, the export of agro-products is a currency coming to our country, which is primarily a stable national currency exchange rate, it's wages, it's pensions, it's social benefits, it's the life of our state. Experts estimate that our potential exports may cost more than $20 billion. In the last export year, Ukraine sold 57 million tons of grain. The inability to export and sell new and past crops puts the new sower’s organization at risk. By now, the crops are overcrowded, and in the fall there will simply be no place to store about 20 million tons of grain, and farmers have exhausted all their resources and capabilities. This will have disastrous consequences not only for Ukraine but also for all the world’s markets. That is why this issue is extremely important and why the response of the world’s societies to this problem is extremely important. It is hoped that the deblocking of ports will allow us to realize our export potential and to maintain world food security, and the passage of grain corridors will generally show the prospects for international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u190	Thank you. Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u191	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today, dozens, hundreds of Ukrainian families lose everything they worked for, where they lived, to become internally displaced persons. At the same time, nearly 70 percent of these internally displaced Ukrainian citizens do not know their rights. When you communicate in any region of the country, when you talk to our people, you hear a huge number of problems and misunderstandings about what to do. Instead, officials on the scene are very often, or at all, unable to fully explain what the settlers may claim, and so they cannot afford qualified timely assistance. The calculation of internally displaced persons remains problematic, their needs are not addressed, and a coherent security plan cannot be worked out accordingly. And it is estimated that about 7 million Ukrainian citizens are now internally displaced within Ukraine. Despite the simplification of the registration procedure, the number of registered lower than their actual size, because we have a lot of cases, and I think each of you know the reasons why people don't register with internally displaced persons. Instead, when faced with the absence of housing, employment, the inability to renew documents, to obtain full or total social benefits, they are under tremendous stress. Problems in their families are also getting worse. It is also important to understand the regions that have sheltered the most people. And accordingly, their life-support infrastructure is overloaded, providing adequate services to people who are not budgeted for. In connection with the training of such regions, I am sure that real assistance, urgent assistance, is needed today to enable them to increase their capacity to provide for people’s needs. It's educational and medical and social services. Unfortunately, there is no change in the ability of the regions that accept the VPO. There is no growth in the number of people working in structures, no service. Therefore, we now turn to the government and to the Supreme Council to draw up a clear plan, how to protect today, to help every person who has become an internally displaced person, how to support those local authorities, the areas, the united territorial communities that are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. And we're going to continue to look at the issues of order of the day. Dear colleagues, we are at the Conciliation Council with faction leaders and groups agreeing that the first number of laws there we are going through, as always, without discussion, because we have found consensus in voting for these bills. So I ask the people's deputies, all the people's deputies to take their seats, please take their seats. And we'll walk like we always do. Dear colleagues, above all, Bill 7548, 7548-1. This is a draft law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code on Tax Exemptions for Goods Used for the Storage of Grains and/or Oil Crops. I'm proposing to include this issue, these two bills as the main alternative to the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:35:23]] For 302 Decision taken. I'm proposing to adopt Bill 7548-1 as the basis. This is a draft law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code on Tax Exemptions for Goods Used for the Storage of Grains and/or Oil Crops. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:36:03]] For 301 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading just adopted on the basis of Bill 7548-1. All of it? Are you ready for the whole thing? Good, 'cause it's easy for me. No questions asked. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to adopt Bill 7548-1 as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:36:48]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill, 7506 and 7506-1, is a draft law amending article 165 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Exemption from Charity Taxation, paid for the benefit of members of families of injured and killed participants in hostilities during their participation in arms aggression and ensuring Ukraine's national security. I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[14:37:33]] For 314 Decision taken. I'm going to make an offer to take it as a base. Dear colleagues, I'm taking the lead. I would like to base Bill No.7506-1 on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Exemption from Charity Taxation, paid for the benefit of members of families of injured and killed participants in hostilities during their participation in military aggression and ensuring Ukraine's national security. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:38:34]] For 314 Decision taken. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, no, the committee's head doesn't. So I'm proposing to cut in half the preparation period, the supply deadlines and the amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:39:09]] For 307 Decision taken. Let's move on, fellows. Next Bill 7431. We're going to vote on him now. But we agreed, one minute from Sofia Romanovna Fedina's procedure. And we're voting right now, please don't split. Fedia Sofia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u193	My colleagues, I would very much like to point out that this bill contains a number of dangers and, in particular, the possibility of punishing military personnel whose guilt has not yet been proved. Sadly, such incidents often occur when there is a personal conflict between the commander and his subordinates. The second is that. We are a European state, we claim to be democratic, not totalitarian. Only a court must render judgment, and it must decide what is a precaution. So let's not play human rights here, but rather try to work out a system for the introduction of a system of military courts. And the third. First, we need to learn to motivate, fully provide, reconcile, and then develop new measures of punishment. And in fact, a lot of commanders say that there's a sufficient system of internal punishments to put something new in place right now. We're supposed to protect our military personnel, so now we're sticking to this bill. And we ask for a very clear second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u194	Sofia Romanovna, when I give out of procedure, you have something to say with procedure, not with motive. Let's do it next time so it doesn't. Okay? Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, 7431, this is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the election of a precautionary approach to military personnel who committed war crimes during the war. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. 7431. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:41:16]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a proposal to adopt this as a basis for further elaboration of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of draft Law 7431. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:41:44]] For 255 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7431. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:42:10]] For 237 Decision taken. The following bills are 7212, 7212-1. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for crimes under conditions of war or state of emergency. I'm proposing to include Bill 7212 and Alternative 7212-1 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:42:46]] For 303 Decision taken. I propose to adopt Bill 7212-1 as the basis. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Violations and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for the destruction or damage of plant objects, particularly under conditions of war or state of emergency. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:22]] For 305 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7212-1. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:48]] For 272 Decision taken. I'm making an offer. Next Bill 7443. The draft Law on Amendments to the Final Provisions of the Family Code of Ukraine (for individual issues of the establishment and residence of a child in a foster caregiver’s family during the wartime period). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:22]] For 311 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Amendments to the Final Provisions of the Family Code of Ukraine (for individual matters of the placement and residence of a child in the family of a guardian during the wartime period) (7443). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:56]] For 317 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7443. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:22]] For 280 Decision taken. Next bill 7376. This is a draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for Young People's Contribution to the Development of Parliamentarianism, Local Self-Government. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Regulation 7376. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:59]] For 311 Orders adopted in general. The following bills 5325, 5325-1. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an offer on the basis of the Committee's proposals, Bill 5325. This is a draft of the Act amending the laws of Ukraine on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees and on Physical Culture and Sport on the introduction of State standards in the field of physical culture and sports and state social standards for the provision of services to subjects in the field of physical culture and sport. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:49]] For 292 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill 5325. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:47:15]] For 274 Decision taken. Next Bill 7357. This is a draft of the Domain Name Registration Act. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:47:40]] For 304 Decision taken. I'm proposing to adopt Bill 7357 as a basis, which is a draft of the Domain Name Registration Act. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:48:02]] For 299 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7357. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:48:28]] For 269 Decision taken. Next bill 5337. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization. I propose the adoption of Bill 5337 as a basis for the amendment of the Law on Mobilization and Mobilization. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:49:02]] For 309 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5337. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:49:25]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 7141. We have an agreement to accept it as a basis, and generally correct, Galina Mikolayevna? Yes, colleagues? So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing that Bill 7141 be included in the agenda of the day session first -- this is the bill on money provision for individual categories of citizens. People's deputies would like to vote in the agenda for the day session, please. [[14:50:02]] For 309 Decision taken. I propose the adoption of a bill on the financial security of individual categories of citizens (registration number 7141). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:26]] For 312 Decision taken. I propose to accept, in general, with the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 7141 is a bill of the Law providing money for individual categories of citizens. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:53]] For 309 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next Bill 7317 is the proposal of the President of Ukraine. These are the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Activities of Private Executives and the Forced Enforcement of Decisions, Decisions of Other Authorities (Ombudsmen) during the War Period. As we agreed, I'm going to make a number of proposals, then the law as a whole. I'm voting on the President's proposal number one. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:51:35]] For 304 Offer accepted. I'm voting on the President's proposal number two. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:51:56]] For 298 Offer accepted. I'm voting on President number three's proposal for this bill. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:52:17]] For 296 Offer accepted. And now I'm making an offer to accept in general, taking into account the President of Ukraine's proposals, Bill 7317. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:52:43]] For 302 Decision taken. The bill with the President's proposals was adopted as a whole. The next bill is 7531. We agreed that this would be a second reading, but we were unamended. Therefore, I immediately propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending paragraph 10-2 of Chapter XI of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Enforcement of Decisions on the Withdrawal from the Physical Person of Debt for Housing and Social Services during the War Period (registration number 7531). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:53:37]] For 312 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill (second reading), we also agreed without amendment, 7396. And I'm proposing to accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the Automated Information System for Education Management (registration number 7396). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:54:16]] For 314 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill, 4517. We don't have a discussion either, it's a second reading. Therefore, I immediately propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the settlement of customs declarations for goods subject to different commodity sub-items under the UCTZED, in accordance with the Customs Code of the European Union. Bill 4517. I would like to propose a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:55:09]] For 312 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 7414, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Consumer Credit to settle long-term debt for periods of military, state of emergency. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act on the settlement of overdue debt for periods of military, state of emergency (Law 7414). People's deputies, please vote. [[2:55:59]] For 312 Decision taken. The next bill, without discussion, is final without discussion. 7480 is a draft resolution on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the death (murder) of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Poland, Anton Eduardoovich. I propose to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7480. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:56:39]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as long as the list of bills that we have agreed on -- without discussion, we have passed. We will continue with the discussion, but I will also ask the national MPs to either discuss or put on. the changes are taken into account, and the time reduction system is also used. Bill 7315 is a draft law amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges on the conduct of judicial proceedings under conditions of war or state of emergency. I invite the head of the committee of Babi Roman Vejacheslavovich to the rostrum. We agreed on about 10 amendments to the EC, right? Arthur Volodymyrovich. Is she going to be one? Beautiful. Now I'm going to find this bill. Who's it gonna be? Arthur Volodymyrovich, you, yes, please. The number of the amendment immediately tells us to do it. 19th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u195	Mr. Chairman, your honor, as far as this bill is concerned, we will not support it. But I'd like to place number 19 for confirmation. And a very important point is that this bill will cover the holding of the judges' assemblies with Zoom, or remote. We fought against this and with the local authorities, because we think they should be gathering for the exclusion of areas where active fighting is taking place. We did everything we could to enable the judges to bring cases from one court to another and to settle organizational matters there. So, your honor, I'm asking you not to support this law, given that you're going to sew up the judges' remote voting through Zoom. We believe that they can and should be assembled today off-line, as they say, except for those areas where active fighting is taking place or where air is dangerous. artillery shells. And number 19 please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee what?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u197	Colleagues, the committee has supported this amendment, asking that it be taken into account. The question is that we have artillery shells, as we can see. Under the threat of artillery fire throughout the country. And it's just a matter of resolving the questions in the courts, which are mostly about the organizational issues of the court's work. The rest of the questions that need to be voted on in secret, including the election of the head of the court, are this right and it determines that they are held in secret ballots, not through Zoom. So please, colleagues, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u198	Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the 19th Amendment. May I have your attention, please? It is counted by committee, the author is Laschenko. But National Deputy Arthur Volodymyrovich is putting this amendment to confirm. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. 19 Amendments. [[15:00:06]] For 246 Decision taken. The amendment remains unchanged. All right, I can make the law now, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges on the Enforcement of Judiciality in War or State of Emergency (Registration No. 7315). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:00:50]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next bill, second reading, 7370. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve individual provisions of pre-trial investigation under military conditions. I invite Sergey Costinovich Ionushas to the rostrum. You guys don't change? You won't? Okay, then we don't have to, Sergey Costinovich. Dear colleagues, since the amendments are being withdrawn, thank you, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to improve the specific provisions of the pre-trial investigation in the context of the state of war (registration No. 7370). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:01:52]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next Bill 7465-1 is also a second reading. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of financial sector activities in relation to the introduction of military status in Ukraine. I know 26 amendments will be made by the Ironman. Right? And after that. Nina Petrovna Jujanina will bet. Please, Ironman, come in here. Nina Petrovna, you'll put her on the line, fine. Who else will consider making adjustments? One amendment, only for consideration. Nina Petrovna, please, 26 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, in fact, there are certain features of the financial sector during the war. But providing such additional functions to the Fund to guarantee the investment of natural persons, such as defining the functionality of the system of withdrawal of insolvent banks from the market and the liquidation of banks in a state of war or during a special period, is not even consistent with the legal status of the fund. So please support my amendment, which excludes the right of the fund, which was given by law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u200	What is the position of the committee, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u201	Colleagues, we support both the authors and the committee. We actually supported this exercise in the task force. So I'm asking you to just count it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, you have understood the situation. The 26th amendment was rejected by the committee. The 26th Amendment, it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u203	26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u204	One second, I got it. It's just, Nina Petrovna, you still have 26th and 24th, Ironman told me it's 26th. Oh, that was the 24th, did I get it right? Twenty-four? Danilo Alexanderovich, 24th? Jaroslav Ivanovich, 24th? Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna’s 24th amendment She's taking it into account. The committee doesn't object to that, so I'm making a proposal, 24 amendments. I'm putting 24 amendments to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:04:39]] For 279 Decision taken. Correction counted. Jaroslav Ivanovich, you found, yes, where to vote, yes, see? It's not a cable, it's faster to navigate. So, dear fellows, I'm betting now. Actually, Jaroslav Ivanovich, maybe someone else is Jaroslav Ivanovich, but now I don't detail by name, but now I'm a cunning, respected colleague. I therefore propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of financial sector activities in relation to the introduction of martial law in Ukraine, Bill 7465-1. Once again, second reading and generally with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:05:46]] For 273 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next Bill 5886 is also a second reading, it's a draft of the Official Statistics Act. They said that some adjustments would be made. One amendment will be taken, won't it? I see your faction alone. Please invite Roxolan Andriyevna for the rostrum. Dear colleagues, first the amendments for confirmation. Excuse me, sir. That's what I'm talking about. I mean, I'm sorry. Please. Princey. I'm sorry, I didn't get my glasses. Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u205	Thank you. I want one taken into account and I ask you to take it seriously, this is Amendment 60, the position of the project provides that statistical authorities have the right to receive free of charge from residents any information, including information with restricted access. Obviously, public statistics authorities cannot have wider powers than investigators, the Antimonopal Committee, NAB detectives and others, for example, they need to go through legal procedures to access information with limited access, which includes banking secrecy, intelligence, and the secret of investigation. But according to the proposed standard, the State has the right to receive this data without a procedure. I suggest you include the right to receive information. Exclude this right to receive restricted information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u206	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u207	The committee rejected this amendment because information with limited access, by definition, is in our legislation, including confidential information, including the primary information that Statestat collects from its respondents. If we accept Princely's bill of lading, Holdstat won't be able to collect any statistics at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 60 revisions. Mr. Mikola, did I get it right? 60 revisions. Dear colleagues, you've heard the position of the National MP at 60. You heard the committee's position. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 60 amendments to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:08:23]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Did we finish the discussion or is there anyone else? Ivanovich Krulko, right? 29th of your repairs, yes? Please, Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u209	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the 29th amendment relates to what I propose that the reporting and statistical documentation provided to the respondent in paper or electronic form be, except in electronic form, the census letters provided to the respondent exclusively in paper form. Imagine if we were to transmit e - mails electronically to the respondents. It's not possible to make an electronic census, it's full, I think, of ignoring all the standards, as state statistics are done. So I'm asking you to take my amendment into account and put part of the sixth article 9 in a new edition, where information can be provided electronically, except for correspondence that is provided to the respondent exclusively in paper form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u210	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u211	The committee rejected this amendment because we believe that the Universal Population Census should have an online round, like in all civilized countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u212	Thank you, colleagues. You heard the author's 29th amendment, heard the committee's position. I'm putting 29 amendments into account. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:10:23]] For-137 The decision is not taken. We've discussed the whole bill, we can move on to a decision. Thank you, colleagues. Rocsolana Andrienne, thank you, take your place. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. It's not here. Well, please. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Official Statistics Act (registration number 5886) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:11:18]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, well, then I'm putting a second offer on the table. I'm proposing that this bill be sent back to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:11:51]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear national MPs, just the next time, you know, it's a shame that the committee's work is based on 5-6 undisciplined people who find no place and the opportunity to stay in the session room. Let's move on, dear fellows. 2493. The Act on Shareholders. Who will insist on repairs? Michael Mikhailovich, two corrections or two minutes? Three minutes of Mikhail Mikhailovich and we move to the vote. I'm asking you to stay put. Three minutes, please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u213	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to focus your attention on a few aspects of the bill under number 2493. Unfortunately, the bill is not reformative. In addition to the absence of complex radical changes, it is not meaningful in its approach to regulating the activities of the shareholders themselves. Rather, it's an attempt to chaotically combine pieces of money from countries with different legal systems and corporate traditions that are not going to be experienced in our domestic corporate practice. The introduction continues. Extortion from the legal and factual control of the State of Shareholders through the institution of independent directors. The obligation to form supervisory boards of state shareholders is foreseen for at least a third of such independent directors, whose activities, according to practice, are not always carried out in the interests of our state and contain signs of threats, sometimes even national security. The bill proposes that most members of established public, including public, audit, appointment and remuneration associations be independent directors. It is a hidden privatization of the powers and financial flows of shareholders and a disguised robbery of the state, including through the stormy bonuses of the independent directors themselves. We think there's a central repository of securities lobbying. For example, this institution will already be able to make money on market participants if, in the case of God, its approval. As an example, it is through its Authorized System that general congregations will be held, consider, the shareholders of the Society, through this database. This is the case with specific preferences, such as the removal (removal) of materials, media related to the maintenance of the central depositary of the securities depository system, and the company’s particle accounting systems. How can an investigator conduct an investigative investigation when he does not have the right to delete these materials as material evidence? Dear colleagues, the unworked bill and we suggest that it be returned to read again, because stock companies are very important, especially during this period. You can't pass a bill like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u214	Dear colleagues. Sergey Vladislavovich, two minutes and then we go to the vote. People's deputies please come to the hall. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u215	Thank you. Sobolje, Fatherland. I'm going to take 53 copies off, and I'm going to need two minutes. That's why I decided to pay attention to that. I want to continue with what my colleague from the Tsimbaluk faction Mikhailovich said. In my opinion, with the money and the approach, when a number of European norms, including the directives of the European Union, are directly implemented into the body of this bill, we believe that the key thing remains: these are so-called independent members of the shareholders' boards and independent directors. What is happening today with NAC Naftogaz's state shareholder company, when the government, I emphasize, the government voted for by the parliamentary majority, when the State Audit Service, which exercises direct control over public funds, when the Ministry of Finance, which needs constant control over the use of these funds, does not have access to checks when persons appointed as allegedly independent directors and as independent members of the supervisory boards, forget, why they are appointed as people who need to take care of public interests, this chapter is absolutely vulnerable for the State to maintain its interests in such shareholders. And that's why our faction through this chapter and our regulations applied to these things, asked for a second reading to send this bill again. We will not vote and stand ready to support the second reading again. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, the practice of ownership confirms that the interests of the State and the interests of independent directors often do not match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act on Shareholder Associations (registration No. 2493). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:18:20]] For 232 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Please, come on. Next bill 53. Oh, by factions. I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Let's see the factions. The next Bill 5397 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property to clarify certain provisions and facilitate investment in privatization. Dear colleagues, someone will insist on the amendments, can we put it right away? Can we bet now, no one insists? That is why I propose to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 5397 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property on clarifying certain provisions and promoting investment in the privatization process. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:19:37]] For 227 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 7451 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property and other legislative acts of Ukraine to facilitate the relocation of enterprises in the context of the state of war and the economic recovery of the state. 7451. We have a list of the amendments that Nina Petrovyn gave her, which she will make. For confirmation, not counting. Oh, considering? They're in the middle of something here, I understand. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, you're going to make your amendment, you're going to be on your own, aren't you? Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u217	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, yes, I'm going to be editing I'm going to put on the count and two clearances for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u218	All right, then we'll go first. How many will you have, Dmitri Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u219	I think about 7 is me and the love of the Shpak, 2 adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u220	How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u221	About seven, I've got two drafts, Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u222	Okay. Nina Petrovna, how much will you put on yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u223	My 49.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u224	And you're all going to bet?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u225	Well, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u226	Okay. Then, Dmitri Alexanderovich, your 2nd amendment, I understand? And you're going to be two corrections, aren't you? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u227	Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u228	Now, one second. Sergei Vladislavovich, how much do you put? Sergey Vladislavovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u229	Colleagues, we have 31 cases with Mr. Cimbaluk. We ask for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u230	Okay. Then, if you don't mind, we'll give it to you after it's done. Two minutes, Tsymbaluk, two minutes, Sobolev. And the Cymbaluk. Two revisions are Shpak. Seven: Smart, yeah. One second. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, they just got a call from the Council Department. They've got a sweaty computer. They need 15 minutes to reload. Let's see if we can start who's going to be speaking out for the first time this hour until the computer is reloaded. So, if I may, I'll give Sobolev two minutes, then two minutes of Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Let's start with that, then maybe someone else will think about changing. Please Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, two minutes. And the microphones don't work either? Dear colleagues, this is a 15-minute break -- it's a technical break, not up to us, it's a dead end to the Council system. Please be 15 minutes, but don't break up, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. We have two people for two minutes, and then, after that, we'll take a break until tomorrow. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, Ukrainian national deputy, two minutes instead of amendments. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u232	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u233	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u234	Mr. Head, I understand that there will be no vote today, right, for this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u235	I don't think so. I don't think we're gonna make it in time. So we're going to give a statement first, and then we're going to postpone the vote later.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u236	Okay. If you don't mind, it's time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u237	Please make time for Michael Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u238	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, colleagues! Bill 7451, which we are considering today, has a very good title. And it's about promoting the process of relocation. But those who read it are very different: privatization during the war. Actually, colleagues, this is ridiculous! Try to sell your apartment during the war, and you'll see what you're offered for it. Next thing. Imagine this privatization, how it's going to be done: without an announcement. The bill proposes to privatize without being reported in the media. Absurd! It's not at real estimated cost, it's going to be government property or utility property, it's going to be on a book basis. Dear colleagues, that is, no auction competition for 50 percent and 100 percent. In general, the bill stipulates that the position of creditors is not taken into account. It is described that objects of great privatization can be sold in private. This is corruption, pure corruption. Dear colleagues, how can such a bill go to the European community? Think about it again, and you can't vote for a bill like that, you have to take it back.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u239	Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u240	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we've submitted enough rights, but unfortunately, the key substance of the bill, its name, and what it was for are absolutely not right for each other. It's not a relocation law. If it's a location, what's privatization for? If these are private or state enterprises moving to safer places, why is privatization here? In my opinion, we are in a situation where we are actually given an opportunity instead of a key consideration, namely the relocation of enterprises in these circumstances, when we know what is going on in Kramatorsky, and our colleague has repeatedly reported to us; when there is a situation where Russian owners do not want to set up an enterprise, waiting for the arrival of so-called "liberals"; when the situation is with Ukrainian owners who are also waiting for something to happen. In this situation, we would be talking about nationalization of such enterprises, but what about privatization? That is why we have tried our rights to bring this law into line with the key, which is why this law is approved. Unfortunately, we got a response from a profile committee where the idea of this bill is completely different: it's not a location, it's a privatization. That's why, realizing that none of the key rights are supported, we ask that in this situation we send a bill for re-reading and return to the essence of this bill, do everything we can to make sure that those enterprises that are near the line of separation that can still be exported.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-27-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we haven't finished our consideration of the agenda today, but we've finished the time we've been counting on, so thank you all for your fruitful work. We are not closing our plenary session, and the time and place of our next meeting will be reported. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine! We'll win together! Glory to Ukraine!
