ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, please prepare for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that once the login is started, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the login. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? People’s Deputies Please Register [[10:02:12]] There are 216 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Alexander Sergiyovich Gorobcz and Sergio Anatoliyovich Litwinenka, "Sergey of the People". Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] We wish you good health, happiness, and triumphant work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups for proposals, announcements and reports. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask the factions and groups to sign up. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, a respected Ukrainian society! In this difficult time for Ukraine, we believe that Parliament today has, more than ever, a key, important role to play in preventing military and political conflict and intensifying our relations with our neighbour, unfortunately, an aggressor. There are going to be discussions here that will help make the Ukrainian position stronger in the negotiation process in any form. So we propose not to ignore Parliament, but to start talking to society openly about anything, about any format, about the Minsk protocols, about how they were put together, about why they were signed in Minsk, and not in another city, which is the nature of the Minsk Treaties and other formats. We thank the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, who organized a meeting yesterday with the heads of the MP factions and groups at the RFMO Situation Centre. We were informed about the daily work of a force block, government, diplomacy on the de-escalation at the border, about the removal from Ukraine of a Russian aggressor. We believe that there should be daily information communication with Ukrainian society. For us today, it is important not to allow any panic and to remember that our greatest enemy today is internal destabilisation within the country. Without the internal destabilisation of Russia's goal of annexation, Ukraine will never be achieved, we are convinced. So we need to work on those legislative instruments to strengthen Ukraine, the military security situation, energy security, financial and economic security. Equally important is the issue of food security in Ukraine, which our parliamentary group has been stressing lately, because it concerns the huge population that is now living outside the poverty line. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" has registered Bill 7023 on making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code regarding the introduction of a zero VAT rate on products, reduced VAT on energy, which will be a mirror step in relation to EU action and will help protect Ukrainian producers. As we know, our nearest neighbour Poland, and in the future other countries of the European Union, have already taxed the added cost of food. Since the market for agricultural products in EU countries is bordering on Ukrainian, Ukrainian agricultural products and foodstuffs derived from it will soon be unable to withstand competition at price, we need to take our steps forward. We should not allow the import of goods from Ukrainian producers. We demand an immediate review of Bill 7023 in the session room and we ask all factions and groups of parliament to support it, thinking about people. We don't have time to delay, friends. Let's keep this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u3	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u4	Mr. Head, may I have a word with Arthur Gerasimov?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u5	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u6	Dear Ukrainians, since 19 Russia has mocked Donbas with hundreds of thousands of Russian passports, conducted an illegal vote to the State, economically engulfing occupied areas, supplying arms in non-stop mode. Today, Desmond was given a command to recognize pseudo republics. Russia thus completes the destruction of the Minsk Accords, thereby giving Ukraine the full right to renounce its obligations. We should let our partners know. This doesn't mean that we have to use this right right now, we have to find an alternative to political diplomatic settlement. The Minsk Accords were the only right decision for 2014-2015, they stopped the Russian offensive, gave us time, years to rebuild and strengthen the army, based on a system of sanctions against the RF, which Russia is weakening and which it so wants to get rid of. Along with France and Germany, we agreed on a road map with priority security issues, worked out a plan for the introduction of "blue helmets" of the United Nations. Unfortunately, Zelensky rejected these ideas, and his consent to the passport edition of Steinmeyer's formula put the political issues ahead of the security issues. During the time of our team, the Minsk Accords were a qualm that we beat Putin in the head, and then we turned into a hammer with their fingers tangled in it. It's a tool you either know how to use or you don't. Green promised to offer a different format, because we have a rational grain that we are ready to support. Similarly, he has repeatedly promised to keep the Minsk Accords, and there is also a chance, although not yet lost, of a road map and peacekeepers. And here we are ready for dialogue. We find it unacceptable to return to the Budapest Memorandum. One of his subscribers, I remind you who forgot, is Russia. What was the head of the Russian eagle that suggested asking for a guarantee of peace in Russia itself? Security assurances are not the Budapest Memorandum, but the Washington Treaty is about NATO, who doesn't know. Once again, I would like to point out that our faction and our team are demanding that Ambassador Pristik be released for his claim that Ukraine is willing to abandon its NATO entry course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u7	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u8	Honorable colleagues, frankly, listen to speeches from this rostrum, do not cease to marvel at cynicism. I want to ask you which eagle I swore in my head, in the dark to sign with the leaders of the LNR, the DNR, the Minsk contractors, it's important to know, and then to know about the Budapest Memorandum. Dear friends, there is no doubt today, no doubt, that all that is now lurking around Ukraine is Ukraine's compulsion to implement the Minsk Treaties in the option that they were against Ukraine's interests signed. I don't think we need to talk about the Steinmayer formula, but we need to read the 9th paragraph of Minsk-2, which clearly states that first the elections in the occupied territories and then the restoration of our border after changes to the Constitution and the created enclave in Ukraine. Do you want to tell the country what it was for the benefit of our country? This directly threatens sovereignty, territorial integrity, and directly threatens the very existence of Ukraine. And that's why I want to go to Parliament right now. There are two major threats today. The first threat is a massive war against Ukraine. But yesterday, when there was a meeting of faction leaders with the leaders of the force structures at the PNBO site, it was clear that the threat of a full-scale war to this day is no longer a threat to local conflicts, yes, but a full-scale war is highly unlikely. But the second threat is that they are pushing Ukraine into implementing the Minsk Treaties as they were then signed, which are really threatening the existence of our state. And in this case, our proposals are two. First. Parliament needs to make a clear statement by adopting the appropriate document that only first execute the safe package and then any election. First release our territory and re-establish the border under Ukraine's control and then any political action. And the second. We also propose to the entire parliament to address countries that guaranteed security for Ukraine when we refused nuclear weapons, this is the Budapest Memorandum: the United States, Britain, then France joined. You must clearly return the country to the right path for the restoration of peace, this is the Budapest Memorandum. Everything will be fine, the country will be whole and peaceful!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kradenek Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, please give my word to my colleague, Oleni Shulak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u11	Please, Olena Alexyevna Schulak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Since 2014, we've had a war. Russia constantly threatens and oppresses the security situation by stockpiling troops and technology. Russian authorities are threatening Ukraine and Europe with questionable ultimatums. Ukraine today understands all the risks and is ready for any scenario. We feel the help of all of our partners who are ready and able to set their shoulders. But we are able and able to stop any escalation, our cities and villages under reliable protection. The president, the government, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Ukrainian diplomacy -- they're all working around the clock to prevent the threat. And if Putin still decides to come to us, we'll give a decent reprieve and not let the freedom and independence of our country be ensnared. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid and panicking. The People's Party is ready for complex problems and challenges, and, as the Ukrainians can see, all the party leadership, all the leadership of the largest faction in Parliament, the senior governing body and district leaders -- they're all in Ukraine, and they're going to stay here today, where the "People's Servant" Party is transforming our district organizations and local headquarters into territorial defense and national resistance headquarters, everything to ensure that the authorities of the state and local self-government interact quickly and qualitatively. The headquarters are in touch with the commanders of the areas and areas of the terror, and they organize the work of the call centers, and so forth. And today, all over the country, "The Servants of the Nation" is being held in district centers in large cities, on an unprecedented basis, in order to solve the immediate problems of terror itself. Our headquarters for today are cities of communication to make people feel more at peace. And the most ungrateful thing right now is to spread panicky rumors or Russian propaganda. Let us not give in to information attacks, for this is only on the aggressor’s hand. And our peace helps all diplomats, all the forces, to do their job with the protection of the state. And today, when we face-to-face with an aggressor, we have to freeze all political disputes, work together to achieve a common goal, save our country from Russian aggression. I call on all political forces, parliamentary or non-parliamentary, all factions on the boards of different levels to work together, to social unity, to trust in our soldiers and to trust in Ukraine and its future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u13	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u14	Today from this rostrum, I want to say thank you very much. Thank you, Ukrainians. Thank you, fellow citizens, for your intelligence, for this correct common sense. Thank you to everyone who goes to work today, works on a regular basis, working to make our country a better place. Thank you for not giving in to these great provocations that they create in the Kremlin. Thank you for going to work, keeping calm, and having common sense. We've been fighting for eight years. We experienced the most difficult times when it was necessary to provide the soldier with basic things: helmets, armor, food. Today, the aggressor is giving us a new challenge – a psychological challenge in our heads. And I believe that our nation is at a higher stage in development. And we will not give in to these provocations, but we will preserve and remain calm, work hard to make our communities stronger: pay taxes, and then our army will become stronger. As for the diplomatic aspect, it is clear that we would like to thank all parliaments, intergovernmental organizations, who are still helping our country in these days, when the Kremlin is coming up with more and more ostentatious ideas. And actually, the new nonsense that was invented in the Kremlin is the recognition of self-proclaimed forms that are made in Ukrainian territories. So my colleagues and I prepared an appropriate decision and appeal to the international community not to acknowledge any ideas of the Kremlin to declare independence in self - made forms in Ukrainian lands. I believe that today and tomorrow we are going to vote this statement, and I believe that we all, everyone, are going to work and work for the development of our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u15	Heroic glory! The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kostenka, the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, yesterday I and my colleagues at the Voice and European Solidarity Party did what they were supposed to do in the President's Office and the government in the international arena. We have registered the decree-making of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the United States and Great Britain as guarantors of the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding calling for the establishment of an international coalition of democratic states to counter the Russian Federation's full-scale aggressive war and the establishment of an unmanned zone around the Russian-Ukrainian, Ukrainian-Belarusian and Ukrainian-Moldovian borders, state borders, as well as the Ukrainian Black and Asian seas in the event of a full-scale invasion. We believe that if such a coalition is created, the Russian Federation will not be able to use aviation and missile weapons to prevent a full-scale attack on Ukraine. We have to go to the Budapest Memorandum and we need adequate guarantees from our partners. Yes, we realize that it's going to be difficult to get those guarantees right now, but we have to initiate this process. And I call on each of the deputies, regardless of the political parties or the political power, to support this decision and to work on an inter-parliamentary level with partners to achieve this goal. If we do that, it will dramatically change the balance of power and become an important safeguard for the beginning of a full-scale war. And now, while we have to do it. I also want to go to our society, to our citizens and tell them that we are now entering the ranks of the Armed Forces, to the ranks of the territorial defense, because each such position is a safeguard against the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation. We're strong, we're gonna win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u17	Heroic glory! The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". And I'm going to ask the people's deputies to the hall, and then we're going to move on to the day-to-day issues. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, seven years ago, on February 12, 2015, a set of measures was signed in Minsk for the implementation of the Minsk Treaties, which were signed in September 14th. But I would like to remind you that on the same day, the same Minsk signed a declaration in support of a set of actions that were signed (note!) President of Ukraine, Chancellor of Germany, President of France and President of Russia. In the 16th year, the President of Ukraine thanked Mr. Steinmayer, then the Foreign Minister, for for for for forcing Russia to accept change and for strengthening Ukraine's position in a complex of actions. On December 9, 2019, President Zelensky initialled the Minsk Accords and supported the idea of implementing them as an unalterable way to bring peace back to our country. Now, for some reason, everyone who talks about the need for a return to peace, the quest for a diplomatic path through the implementation of the Minsk Accords, is becoming traitors to Ukraine. Mrs. Merkel is a traitor, Mr. Steinmayer is a traitor, those national deputies and politicians, whether they are in parliament or not, who are now calling for the implementation of the Minsk Accords, are traitors. The TV channels that opened up the discussion on their playgrounds are closed by a senseless, unconstitutional, illegal decision of the PNP and such channels already six: ZIK, NewsOne, First Independent, UkrLive and 112 Channel, and Friday closed the "Our" TV channel. Now preparing to close six more channels. We have to stop this nonsense, the constitution, the responsibility to return to this room and the Ukrainian authorities. Today is another remarkable date. On February 15, a Soviet contingent was withdrawn from Afghanistan. Unfortunately, more than 3,000 Ukrainians have been killed in Afghanistan, and according to the United Nations, 13.5,000 Ukrainians have died in Donbas, 4,000 of whom are civilians. We need to keep that in mind. And I ask for a moment of silence today to honor the memory of the dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u19	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the time for talks is exhausted, and we are now on to the subject. The list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today, so let us move on to consideration. Dear colleagues, yesterday the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups discussed and approved order, the draft agenda for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. In accordance with part one of article 21 and part one of article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am introducing a draft agenda for the seventh session for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, since all the suggestions we discussed were taken into account, there is a need. Then let's say, there's a guaranteed right of each faction, in one minute each faction will express itself and we'll move on to this question. Do I get it right? Then, Arthur Volodymyrovich, you're first, aren't you? Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u20	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I understand that now, given that there are largely no votes, you have begun to include the opposition bill in the agenda. Not all of them, I'll tell you right away. But we also understand that the order of the day session does not mean voting these laws today. So what I want to say right now is that European Solidarity will vote in favour of the agenda of the day session under one very harsh condition: if, today, by 12:00, a bill on the allocation of 50 billion dollars to the Ukrainian Armed Forces is put to the vote. Let me explain why. Because I was surprised to hear yesterday that with the "Serial of the People" faction you were discussing how to raise your salaries to the military. Your Honor, you have a bill for two months! So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'll have enough of your personal word if you promise that by 12:00 this bill will be considered in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u21	Arthur Volodymyrovich, you know how to put the bill into the agenda. It is not decided by the word or by the word of the presiding officer; it is decided by voting in the hall. There's nothing I can do. Please, Ironman, after this. Oh, the Ironman picked up the first one. Please solve this. Head, then head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u23	Dear friends, please, once again, whoever raises their hand first will report. Well, I was asking you. Please. Then let me rephrase the Voice, you decide who's speaking out of you, so it's not self-activities, and I'll give the factions who know who's speaking out of them. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u24	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, we're talking about the following on all airs, including here in the Supreme Council Hall. Look, "Fatherland" is a constant bill that is now, let's say, what Ukrainian society needs. These are army bills, these are bills to increase the financing of the Armed Forces, these are bills to increase the financing of the medical sector and to fight the pandemic directly, these are OP Bills to calm the situation with small businesses. We say that all the time on the air. But for the time being 49 laws of the Fatherland, the honourable chairman, are not placed in the order of the day, 49. We ask you again, and we're going to put this on our pages today so you can understand that our legislative initiatives are opposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u25	Vadim Eugeneovich, we included everything we talked about last time. You said the bills, they were included. If there's a need, let's do it. Look, I have an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, look, I have an offer. This includes 1,000 917 bills. Let's take it today. Then, if there are changes, it is easier to make changes to the existing decision. Okay, I get it. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, well, we can't discuss all 2,000 bills right now. They are, we turn them on with the machine and everything, and we have to move on. But the question is how to move, in which priority to move with regard to one or the other bills. That's why I think the Supreme Council should insist on the priority of considering drafts in the session hall, given the circumstances in which we live today -- military security, financial and economic security, food security. And our parliamentary group is once again stressing those bills that it has registered. And in particular, Bill 7023 on the zero VAT rate on foodstuffs. And the request to the Head of the Supreme Council to oblige the relevant committees to consider immediately on their committees so that they can be considered and introduced into the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, from the "Trust" MP group, who will it be? Nobody's here? Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please. After that, Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski. After this. Is the "voice" clear? Please, then from Voice later. I see. Nestor Ivanovich first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. Our faction today will abstain from voting on the agenda. Because we don't see any guarantees for considering these bills this week that are fundamentally important to us. These are also bills related to the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. We propose to vote on our decision to speed this process up, and these are bills that are now stabilizing the energy market and contributing to a fair price for the gas that is killing the Ukrainian industry today, with two thirds of the gas being produced on our own. We believe that the Supreme Council should change the order of the day and speed up those issues that are relevant right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u29	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, if you'll excuse me, take the ear to hear me. Now we are not voting on the agenda of this week – we are voting on the agenda of the session. That's why I'm asking you to support me, and we're going to have normal consultations in the morning. That's why I'm asking you to maintain the order of the day session. Thank you. Please, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u30	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, the draft Order for Approval of the Order of the Day Seventh Session is absolutely balanced and reasoned and justified. This project provides for the adoption of important laws relating to security and defence, bills relating to the health, social, economic, and security and defence, and calls for additional hundreds or tens of billions of dollars to be allocated -- this is purely political speculation, because we need to be thorough about where to take this money. The relevant decrees of the President of Ukraine yesterday have already been directed and have been instructed to separate the Ministry of Finance. To find the funds needed for the defense. So we're doing everything we can to make sure that the area of defence and security is well funded and that the order of the day is precisely that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, from Klimenko's Voice. No one will speak from "Trust." Dear colleagues, this is another speech by National Deputy Klimenko, and then we're going to the vote. People's deputies are asked to take their seats because this is a very important vote on the order of the day session. Please, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head, first of all, we ask you to follow the rules and give the word accordingly to the leaders of factions and groups, not to those who raised their first hand. Thank you very much. That's a general comment. In fact, we will maintain the agenda to unlock the work of the Supreme Council for this session and so that we can work on the necessary laws. We thank you for including our bills, but somehow we lost one bill, number 5066, which gives additional funds to the communities, including they can use them for territorial defense, for the provision of wives, for volunteer wives. So we ask you to put it in the agenda, maybe a separate decision, but otherwise it won't be considered on the committee. Bill No. 5066. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u33	Thank you. Yes, it is, but let's do it next time. You know, virtually every plenary week, we're going to supplement this regulation with bills that we're going to include in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting for the entire draft Order (Registration No. 6575) on the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:36:35]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, if we've accepted the order of the day session, I have an offer. Since virtually everything has been discussed, we should immediately vote in favour of the billing plan for this year. Dear colleagues, before your consideration, we are proposing a draft Decree (Registration No. 7049) on a 2022 billing plan for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of Article 19 pr. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules annually at the beginning of the next session, which begins on the first Tuesday of February, the Supreme Council approves the Supreme Council's draft legislative work, as agreed by the Conciliation Council, taking into account the proposals of the Committees, as outlined by the Apparatus. The committees have made proposals on issues that need a legislative settlement taking into account the legislative plan for the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this issue is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. Yesterday, I inform you that the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups agreed on a 2022 billing plan for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In line with the first part of Article 19 pr. I'm setting up a billing plan for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I can put him to the vote, please prepare for the vote. I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 7049) on the billing plan for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2022. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:38:21]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Now let's move on to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the following questions. The second reading of the draft Act amending article 161 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Anti-Semitism in Ukraine (second reading) will now be considered. And I invite the head of the Committee on the Protection of the Law, Sergio Costinovich Ionushas, to the rostrum. Please, Sergey Konstantinovich. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? It's a one-time fix, isn't it? Please, Bobrowski, fix number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u34	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, back to this sad bill. And I'm very sorry that we're going into this detail of the article, and I've openly regretted the author of this bill, and I haven't made it clear that there are more than 150 other nationalities that live in the territory of Ukraine that are precisely in need of protection. But let's go to the end of this bill and detail all kinds of discrimination that might fall under this criminal article. In particular, I suggested that we extend it, that we fight chauvinism, xenophobia, lukewarm, and so on. Because in fact, when we oil oil under an article of the Criminal Code that already provides for protection on the basis of international ownership and ethnicity, we create protection. And I'm very sorry that we're not talking about discrimination today, we're talking about actually spreading the Russian narrative of Ukrainian anti-Semitism in Ukraine. It doesn't exist, and that's what the Russian Federation advocates.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u35	Are you insisting on this amendment or not? Don't you insist? Thank you, Mrs. Solomia. All right, then we're getting ready for the vote, dear colleagues. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Act amending article 161 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Anti-Semitism in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:41:40]] For 295 Decision taken. Congratulations, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have a proposal, taking into account the situation that is now on the borders of Ukraine, you know, we, the presidency, have registered a draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Assembly of Parliament of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of foreign states in connection with the escalation of the Russian Federation's security situation around Ukraine. Are you going to have any objection to this issue now and to respond to the situation that is going on? It won't? Then I propose to move on to question 7045. [[10:43:02]] For 330. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to vote on a few of our traditional votes. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, Bill 7045. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:43:31]] For 330. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you consider this issue ad hoc and take a decision at this plenary session on Bill 7045. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:43:58]] For 331 Decision taken. And another vote. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:44:21]] For 266 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, your thoughts are proposed for consideration by the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, governments and parliaments of foreign states in connection with the escalation of the Russian Federation with the security situation around Ukraine (register No. 7545). The draft decision is proposed in particular. First. Approve the appeal of the Supreme Council to these organizations The other one. Condemn the actions of the Russian Federation aimed at the baseless expansion of military aggression against Ukraine. Third. Encourage leading international organizations and partners of Ukraine to continue to take action to curb the RF military plans for Ukraine. The measures proposed by the draft regulation will contribute to the consolidation of peaceful international legal efforts in order to prevent the escalation of the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine. In addition, I would like to say that I am very grateful to my colleagues after the presidency of Parliament, that we have literally gathered together on Saturday, prepared this address and signed it up, registered it, and very much asked the Hall to approve it. This will be a quick, clear and clear response of the Ukrainian Parliament to the situation that is now taking place with regard to issues related to the aggression of the Russian Federation. On the first day of Parliament's work, we must show our answer to all these things, because Parliament has always stood and will stand in the interest of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, I ask you to unanimously support this appeal. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u38	Please welcome the committee's deputy head of the Committee, Marina Bardina, for a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please register: two for, two for, and two for, against, factions and groups. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mr. Petra Alexiyovich, a faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u40	Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainians! Of course, the "European Solidarity" faction in its entirety will support the stated decision. But what I lack in this decision, and I ask you to consider the question of including this further: in addressing the parliaments of foreign states, we need to address the immediate imposition of sanctions against Russia as the only effective mechanism for stopping the aggressor. We need to ask them to look to their governments for immediate military assistance and land-leasing to increase Ukraine's security, freedom, security and democracy in Europe and the world. And I don't understand what the parliaments of the whole world: the United States Congress, the House of Commons of Britain, Germany and the Bundestag -- all of Europe -- have repeatedly held meetings in support of Ukraine, and only the Supreme Council of Ukraine has spent two months campaigning, sending itself on vacations, claiming that there is no military threat. And just now, they woke up today. They didn't even make it back from abroad. So talk to yourself before speaking to others. And the last. At last, invite Zelensky to Parliament for an honest discussion about the defense of the state, Ukrainian land, and Ukrainian citizen, and let him not hide. Thank you for your attention and we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u41	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u43	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u44	Samantha Bobrowski. Dear colleagues, of course, this statement should have a place in this Parliament and it should be unanimously supported, except for those people who are certainly waiting with bread, salt, or have already left Ukraine and have seen their bright future without this tap. I would very much like us to have a tool for depriving ourselves of a mandate in such cases. And I would like to look to the voters, especially Eastern, South Ukraine, for what your national electorate is doing. Well, of course, it's the most important thing. By addressing this appeal, which we ask to continue to highlight on the points of reference regarding the recognition of the illegal attempt of annexation, the blockade of the seas, which is actually already a direct aggression and can already take the next step – the imposition of sanctions, the recourse of our international partners, who have so far emerged from Ukraine as instructors, military, and thus put international military training at risk. This is what the Russian Federation really wants, but it is that we are asking to calm down, not to panic and continue to carry out our duties professionally with our Armed Forces, which we thank for today's expansion of full-scale education not only in southern Ukraine, but also in the northern border with the Republic of Belarus. Thank you for your attention and please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u45	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kucher Mikoli Ivanovich, the MP's "Trust". Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u46	We, Marjorie MPs, of the Trust MP group, believe that this is the right quick response of the Ukrainian Parliament to this complex security situation that is taking place on the land and sea borders of our country. We will definitely vote in favour of this decree, for this appeal to the international community, so that everyone will strongly condemn any actions of the Kremlin aimed at making the security situation worse both in Europe and in our country's borders. We clearly believe that our army is strong, we are all safe, but we are calling on the international community to condemn these odious acts of an aggressor. We're all in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u47	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy Motka Igor Fedorovich, the MP's Party for the Future. After that, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, after which I will invite the rest of the rest of the committee, Mr. Gregory Mikhailovich, then Nestor Ivanovich and Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich, and then we will proceed to the vote. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u48	Honorary colleagues, an important appeal to Parliament’s parliamentary organizations, interparliamentary relations, and the parliaments of our neighbours to make their efforts to destabilize the Ukrainian border. We've been in an escalation situation, we've been living a military threat for the last eight years, it's getting bigger, it's getting smaller. The military will tell you that about a year and a half ago, the aggressor was gathering Russian troops and more at the Ukrainian-Russian border, but today we see additional tensions: it's an economic blow on Ukraine, it's lysing airlines that actually cancel their contracts, it's energy, it's cyberattacks, it's so-called extinctions and so on. Therefore, I believe that our appeal should be based on European society in recent years, so that international co-operation does not allow a change in the architecture of security in Europe, as sought by President Vladimir Putin of Russia in recent years, and actually support Ukraine by giving Ukraine, as an independent European state, a window of opportunity by providing the necessary military assistance that we feel today, by providing the necessary macroeconomic assistance that we feel today, but not enough, because we understand that external funding for Ukraine is not now available. That's why we're obviously expecting both the United States and the IMF and our Great Seven friends to provide sufficient macro-financial assistance to Ukraine so that we can withstand this severe economic crisis that we're in today. Ukraine's window of opportunity is given, the main thing for us, friends, parliamentarians, Ukrainian society to use. Thank you. We support this statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u49	Thank you. The word is given to the Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "The Servant of the People". After that, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Then, from the Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira committee, we move on to the vote. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that one of the basic principles of international law, which is enshrined in Article 2 of the United Nations Statute, is the prohibition of threats by force, the non-threat of any kind, the resolution of any international issue. Today, the Russian Federation is openly threatening the sovereign, independent country of Ukraine, contrary to the universal principles of international law. Thus, the Russian Federation has once again been very insolent in disregard of the principles and norms of international law that all civilized countries are obliged to observe. The People's Political Party will certainly support this decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because we, as national MPs, have to demonstrate unity and demonstrate our position in relations with the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u51	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. Indeed, there is a bit of a strange logic in power. President Zelenski says that everything is calm, and the majority is initiating questions about how we are being approached and pushed. In this way, you can determine how the sayings are: The wolves attack or do not attack. Because, God forbid, something really will happen, no one will believe us anymore. And I want to say that these decisions, they can increase the panic in society. We have to show peace and confidence, it's on the one hand. On the other hand, I have just studied statistics with my colleagues, Alexander Koltunović, and Igor Abramovich in this very room just a few minutes ago. Thus, exports to the Russian Federation increased by 22 percent last year and imports by 31 percent. So what are we doing, fighting or trading? And by the way, the Russian Embassy in Kiev, it's not going anywhere. Please take this into account and stop the panic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u53	I'm sorry, Sergey Vladislavovich was still a member of the committee. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u54	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction clearly and consistently adheres to the principles that are in fact in this document. We would like to point out that the 48 countries of Europe that were represented at the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have clearly rejected Russia's proposals to downplay the role of the Russian Federation in direct aggression against Ukraine and, in the same way, supported Ukraine's position on the immediate withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine's borders. For us, it is fundamental that the adventures to which we are drawn today, namely the political requirements, and then the security ones, be rejected. Our faction supports a version of the committee that actually allows for further peaceful solutions, but in a consistent way, of this conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u55	Thank you. Please invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and International Cooperation, Gregory Mikhailovich Nemir. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u56	Thank you. Fellow presiding officer, this morning the committee quickly met and considered the draft of the proposed decision and appeal, and unanimously supported it. I would like to point out that the committee took note of some questions that needed clarification or addition. In particular, a paragraph on the Budapest Memorandum was added to the text of the ruling by unanimous decision, underlining that the Russian Federation had violated and continued to violate the UN Statute and principles of international law, as well as its obligations under the memorandum, the Budapest Memorandum, which guaranteed respect for independence, sovereignty and the existing borders of Ukraine, and confirmed the non-use of arms against Ukraine. We added that. And we also unanimously deleted the words "in existing negotiating formats" in paragraph five. In paragraph fourteen, the words "using existing negotiating mandates" were also deleted. And there was also an editorial amendment in the tenth paragraph: the word "role" was replaced by "important." Taking these rights into account, unanimously supporting and stressing the timely adoption of such a decree and such an appeal, the committee urges all national deputies to support this bill with the committee's drafting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt in general, taking into account the proposals of the committee that you had the opportunity to listen to and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of foreign states in connection with the escalation of the Russian Federation's security situation around Ukraine (project Registration No. 7045). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:01:14]] For 326 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. Thank you. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Let's move on. We have the next bill. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Either we move on, or we have another draft of the Appeal Regulation on the non-recognizance of the independence of self-proclaimed creatures in temporarily occupied territories. If you don't mind, let's vote on it, too, and make a statement on all the questions, because, you know, what the Russian Duma is doing right now, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Supreme Council has an adequate answer. So, with your permission, I'd like to move on to question 7048. This is a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the governments and parliaments of the world's nations on the non-recognizance of the independence of self-proclaimed formations in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. Dear colleagues, please support. To move on to this issue. [[11:02:49]] For 328 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[11:03:16]] For 329 Decision taken. I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:03:39]] For 330. Decision taken. And the extreme procedural vote is to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:04:00]] For 273 Decision taken. I welcome the words of the coauthor of this decree by the Ukrainian national deputy Paul Andryovich Bakunz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainians! In view of this situation and the Kremlin's odious ideas on the recognition of the independence of these self-proclaimed formations on our Ukrainian lands, we have prepared an appropriate Order on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, to the governments and parliaments of all the nations of the world that, given that the world community has already repeatedly defined the actions of the Russian Federation on Ukraine by aggression, the Kremlin nevertheless intends to recognize the independence of self-proclaimed entities in the temporarily occupied Ukrainian lands. We absolutely can't let that happen. So we're going to the international community and we're going to urge you not to define any decisions of the Kremlin regarding self-proclaimed forms in the temporarily occupied Ukrainian lands. We are determined to condemn any actions of the Kremlin aimed at exacerbating the security situation on Ukraine's borders and, accordingly, Europe. We ask that additional sanctions be applied immediately for the Russian Federation to prejudice further escalation of the conflict. I call on everyone in this room to support this appeal, to vote in favour of this decision, and to stress once again that all Ukraine is a whole territory, and that the occupied territories we are clearly taking back and they will continue to be Ukrainian. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u59	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, from the committee, who will report? Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich, right? Let's listen to the committee at the end. Is there a need to discuss it now? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Irina Volodymyrni Heratchenko, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the thought of the Russian Federation does not conceal that it is considering the war on Donbas in an Abkhaz scenario when it is simply trying to recognize these so-called quasi-Republics. And it's very sad that the Ukrainian authorities have, in fact, been silently observing passports in these Ukrainian territories for three years. Today, more than 800,000 Ukrainians have received Russian passports, which certainly question the conduct of any election in that area, because there can be no election either for Russian passports or for machine guns. And in fact, any recognition today of these so-called quasi-republiks is going to be a single way out of the Russian Federation from the Minsk Accords. I want to remind you that there are very many unprofessional speculations in this room right now about what they gave Ukraine the so-called Minsk Accords, when at the most difficult time of exacerbation they helped stop a full-scale Russian offensive and were bound to sanctions against the Russian Federation. In fact, if Russia comes out of the Minsk Accords alone today, surely the Ukrainian authorities are not as careful as in this statement as they are in reacting to it as they are to impose sanctions on themselves, rather than trading for $2 billion in blood, buying Russian coal stolen from Ukrainian enterprises in occupied territories, not accusing our partners of being in a panic, but doing everything they can to jointly strike the enemy, including in the information hybrid war, calling for sanctions against the Russian Federation today. And as for the person who is loved in this Budapest Memorandum Hall, because I understand that it will now be followed by the same statements here, I want to remind you that there are guarantees, not guarantees, but assurances to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u61	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bogdanac Andrija Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u62	Colleagues, this is an extremely important decision, and we need to show everyone that this is our land. We all remember that our brothers and our citizens shed blood for this land. These lands, we need to show that we remember the people who live there, remember that our Ukraine is complete, independent, and we are voting in favour of this decree. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u63	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mamyan Suto Choloevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Scorch Nikolai.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u65	Mikola Skorik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u66	Santa's Step, opposition platform faction for life. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, to be honest, I have a rather strange feeling this week. I remember quite well the rhetoric of the President and the Presidential faction last week, when we were convinced that there could be no invasion, that it was a panic, that this panic was sown by enemies. I didn't understand this rhetoric a little bit, because this whole rhetoric belonged to the first leaders of Western countries, this whole rhetoric belonged to the leaders of Western embassies, this whole rhetoric belonged to the leading Western media, the leading media, I emphasize. This week, both the President and the Presidential faction were completely aligned with the faction of last power, other so-called patriotic factions, let's say. It seems to me that if we want to demonstrate what is really the same for us, that Lugansk, that Lviv, that Odessa, that Kyiv, that Žitomir, Parliament has to demonstrate is the fulfilment of the Minsk Treaties, to demonstrate that we are really in favour of territorial integrity and peace in our country. Because all the first leaders of all the major countries told Ukraine that it was through the implementation of the Minsk Treaties that we could restore peace. More transparent hints, as Britain and the United States have recently done to us, are very hard to imagine. I propose not to do stupid things, but to go to the draft decision made by the Opposition Platform for Life on the implementation of the Minsk Accords. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u67	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, faction of "The Fatherland". Then there's the people's deputy Rudik and Solomia Bobrowski, yes. And then we go to the vote, Your Honor. And then from the restaurateur committee, and then to the vote. Thank you. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u68	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Today, Parliament is considering a draft statement that is caused by the Russian Federation's Duma for the submission of Communists and the Russian Party of Power trying to take a decision to refer to their President Putin regarding the recognition of LNR and DNR as independent states. In fact, this is a continuation of the hybrid war waged by Russia against Ukraine. This is in the complex of aggression that Russia is increasing on Ukraine’s borders. And certainly the Ukrainian Parliament has to make a decision to confirm that part of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, as well as Crimea, are Ukrainian, that part of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions is not some kind of formation in connection with the fact that someone has taken action against Ukrainian citizens, is an occupation by the Russian Federation. And I think there is no doubt in this House that it was the Russian Federation that occupied both the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and the Ukrainian Crimea. So we have to make it clear that these are Ukrainian territories, and those who make these decisions and propose them should be punished, including by increased sanctions on the West. Well, there's one more thing. They're trying to torpedo the Budapest Memorandum. So I want to make it clear that the Budapest Memorandum is the only document that, unlike the "Minska" that says that under the barrels of Russian vending machines there will be elections in Ukrainian territory, is the only document that guarantees Ukraine. And Ukraine has to use it to make the United.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u69	The word is given to the national deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich. Afterwards, National Deputy Bobrowska, then from the committee, and we move on to the vote. Please, Sergey Jaroslavovich, from the place, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, well, will there be Ukrainian national deputies in this room who do not support this decision? Is there little to say that we do not recognize murderers? We will not have direct negotiations with them, we will not support people who have done everything to make mothers lose tens of thousands of children. We need to move from words to deeds. Put up a weapon of terror, unlock the question of the formation of volunteer battalions, and that will be our answer to any attempt at territorial violations of our state. We vote yes, and we urge the entire Parliament to move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u71	Bobrova Solomia Anatolyevna, The Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u72	Samantha Bobrowski. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that today will be in Duma if they turn to the President for recognition of the so-called republics. They pointed out this in their document: to ensure the security and protection of the republics and to initiate the process of international recognition of both States. I'll tell you more, actually for them it's not just going to be a way out of the Minsk Accords, it's going to be the beginning of an escalation in the east to get a complete Luganian and Donetsk region, as they dream of it, as recorded in their documents. So, respectable colleagues, definitely, and we have to explain this question clearly, both about "Minsk," and about similar things to all of our international partners, where the dog is trapped and how the Russian Federation solves the new war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I give the floor to the committee's first deputy chairman, Gregory Mikhailovich Nemiri. Please. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, this is another decision, a draft decision that was promptly considered by the committee this morning, and we also call on all national deputies to support this draft decision. I would also like to point out that it is very timely. We learn lessons when we react too little and too late. In this case, as in the previous one, the committee proposes some changes and additions, particularly with regard to what we clean up throughout the text of the word "Luhansk People's Republic" and "Donetsk People's Republic" and replace them with the words "illegal creation." These are illegal forms, and they have to be defined in this way: consistently, clearly and without ambiguity. That's why I think we need to understand that sometimes it's important to react to what's going on, and in this case it's a quick and effective response to the possible recognition of illegal entities in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. But I think we still need to act on prejudice. And those colleagues who spoke about the Budapest Memorandum rightly stressed that there were signatures of the Presidents of the United States, the Prime Minister of Great Britain, that France and China joined the memorandum. What are the signatures of the so - called Minsk Treaties? People who are no longer alive. So once again, this draft decision that is being proposed today is timely, and I suggest that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've had a discussion on this issue, and we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the governments and parliaments of the nations of the world on the non-recognition of the independence of self-proclaimed formations in the temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region (registration number 7048). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[11:20:09]] For 331 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Thank you, Your Honor. Yeah, let's keep going, let's keep going, let's keep going, let's keep going, let's keep going, let's keep going, let's keep going, let's The next issue that we will consider is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve pension legislation (this is re-second reading) (4668). I'd like to invite you to meet the head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Helen Eugene. No, no, I'm sorry, that's not it. Retired, I see. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I invite the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights of Zimbaluk Mikhailovich. This is a draft law amending certain laws to improve pension legislation (registration number 4668). Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich is in place. Yes, dear colleagues, will anyone with whom they have make adjustments? They will be. Yeah, just one, right? Two adjustments. All right, the speeding will be on. Who else is going to bet? Nobody else. Please, Anna Constantine. First, call the number of the amendment and after what you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u76	I've only got two minutes and I'm asking for three amendments: 111th, 112th and 114th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u77	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, now that we have a possible war, when we have an ever-increasing price for products, when prices for utilities have increased, when drug prices have increased, we as a social state defined by the Constitution of Ukraine have to support our pensioners and increase their pensions. That's why I'm proposing with these amendments to increase the minimum pension to two minimum income per capita. I also suggest that every year I increase my pension by 5 percent, not 1 percent, and 10 percent maximum, not 1 percent now. Similarly, I suggest that the minimum pension rate is determined by law, but not less than 1.5 percent of the minimum working age. Dear colleagues, let's think about our pensioners, they are now really surviving, not living. Let us at least give them some help and support in today’s difficult and difficult times. I ask each of you to vote and support these three amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u79	Anna Constantine, I got it right, I'm going to give the committee position now, but then we're going to put 111th, 112th and 114th, right? Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u80	Thank you. Thank you, first of all, I want to thank the author of these rights, they're actually right, but unfortunately they don't apply to this bill. We have a number of legislative initiatives in the Committee on Social Policy that relate to these issues that Mrs. Krakhod raises, and clearly in the following bills that we will consider, we will take these positions into account. This bill is not ideal, it does not solve all the problems, including raising the pension for civil servants, and not for all categories of military personnel, but for me, it is the first time to carry out at least the indexation. I agree with you that we need to improve, and those people who today get 1,000 934 bracelets can't live at a time when prices rise both for food and for clothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, I immediately place three amendments to the National Deputy Krakhod's vote. Let's get started, 111. This amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:05]] For-103 For 140. The decision is not taken. 112 Amendment of the Krakhod People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:26]] For-103 The decision is not taken. And the 114th Amendment of the Krakhod People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:47]] For-97 The decision is not taken. And another 92 amendments, National Deputy Maslov, please. But you're not going to bet, you're just going to stand up for support. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u82	Colleagues, in this room we must unite around the defense of our country. I believe that this bill contributes to strengthening the security of our country because it stops the pension discrimination of our military personnel. I'll remind you that the last time you counted your pension was four years ago. You know, now this bill sets out the only approach and the indexation of pensions for military personnel will be carried out on a general basis once a year. Social security, the pension provision of our military personnel will help to motivate the military and to pursue a career there. Pension insurance is as important to our military personnel as it is to strengthen the security of the country as it is to schools, as it is to modern weapons. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the vote, move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. And I propose to the committee that it adopt a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the improvement of pension legislation (registration number 4668) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:27:49]] For 352 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear friends, as far as I know, it was such an offer to move on now without discussion to 7002 and vote it out, right? So, your honors, we have two more procedural decisions to put to the vote first. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by proposing to go to Bill 7002, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:28:38]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill be defined as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the February 15, 2022 plenary session. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:29:07]] For 331 Decision taken. And the final procedural vote. Consider this question by a simplified procedure. Please vote. No discussion, but we have to vote on this procedural decision. [[11:29:28]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I immediately put the proposal there as a basis and as a whole. First on the base, then on the whole. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies (Project Registration No. 7002). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:30:12]] For 332 Decision taken. And I'm proposing the adoption of a draft law as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine (registration number 7002). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:30:45.]] For 333 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The following Bill 5719 (draft Law amending the Budget Code for the Accounting of Excise Taxes for the Realization of Subjects of the Retail Trade in Tobacco Products). It's a second reading again. I invite you to speak to the Vice-President of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Helen Eugene Kopanchuk. 5719, please. Dear colleagues, will there be those who insist on their amendments? Will there be those who will be? They will, won't they? Oh, for confirmation? First, I ask if there will be people who insist on taking their amendments into account. None. Please, who wants to make the adjustments for confirmation? Please, Vasilchenka, right? Now, just a second. Vasilchenko first. Correction number first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u84	My 89th Amendment, amendment for confirmation. We've moved on to confirmation, would you please tell me, Mr. Ruslan? Mr. Ruslan, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u85	Now, one second. I asked. Let's do it again. Stop! Dear colleagues, I ask you again, are there people who will make adjustments? Is there, yes, an amendment? Salamaha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u86	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have three rows: 15-a, 98-a, 115-a. I'll start with 15. That's 1.5 percent, not 1 percent of the State Regional Development Fund. Please support them, these are extremely important remedies.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u87	So let's start with. Again, 15th, 98th and 115th. I can put them in turn. But first, the position of the committee. Can you tell me why you turned them down?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u88	It's about 15 revisions. The committee was rejected because the target rate of up to 1.5 percent of the increase in funding for the Regional Development Fund would not result in the rights that the author wanted. Because, starting in 2016, the DFRD has not taken place at 1 percent, as foreseen in the State Budget project. In view of the above, it is not appropriate to set the volume by 1.5 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u89	Thank you. You said 98th and 115th, I see that's the amendment to the Arachami. I don't know, you can't fix the Arachami, so let's start with the 15th. Dear colleagues, the 15th amendment of the national deputy of Salamis and a number of colleagues, was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:34:20]] For 309 Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Salamaha, what are the two other amendments? Because 98th and 115th aren't your authorship, they're the authors of the People's Deputy of Arabia. He can pick himself up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u90	Then I'm going to ask him to take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u91	It's his work. David Georgiyovich Arahami said you wanted to put 98th and 115th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u92	Please set up a confirmation check.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u93	Only on account of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u94	Excuse me, I'm sorry. This amendment is supported by the Association of Cities, which actually protects the rights of local budgets if there are attempts to abuse the central government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u95	Are you talking about the 98th amendment, David Georgievich? Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to the People's Deputy of Arabia as the author of 98 amendments to take this amendment into account. The committee has rejected it, so please vote. [[11:35:35]] For 273 Decision taken. And, David Georgiyovich, did you say you wanted your 115th? David Georgievich, another 115, yes. Well, then, dear fellows, I'll still bet 115. David Georgievich, please tell me if you're going to be 115 or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u96	115 revisions, it's related to an adjustment that we've already taken into account. Thank you for your support. Please be supportive, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I place 115 amendments to the People's Deputy of Arahamaia. The committee turned her down. At the same time, the author insists on setting it up. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I put 115 amendments into consideration. Please vote. [[11:36:34]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, will there be no more national MPs who want to put their amendment into account? None. Then, I was told, there are colleagues who want to make amendments to other national MPs for confirmation. And from the 89th and 102nd factions, I understand? Please give us your word, Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the 89th report on the real injustice of hospitals, makes the hospital, where the bedbugs are treated, totally privileged. So out of the state budget without any guarantees, without any further control, there's going to be money in the hospital for the bowling alleys. For me, as Lviv's Marjorie MPs, it is completely unclear why simple Ukrainians in hospitals should receive less money, why hospitals should meet all the necessary conditions for reform and compliance with the requirements of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the privileged hospitals in Kiev should avoid it? I ask you very much to fail this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u99	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that a third line of medical reform has not yet been established, we say that funding is needed for the National Academy of Medical Sciences, so such hospitals should be financed from the State budget at present.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard your positions. 89 amendments, which are included by the committee, are requested by colleagues for confirmation. The committee insists that it be kept under review. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[11:38:49]] For 244 Decision taken. And 102th, right, colleagues? 244 says it's still accounted for. And 102nd. Do I get it right? Please, Vasilchenko, 102nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u102	The 102rd Amendment of the Budget Code seeks to remove the required 5 percent of GDP for medicine. So in that case, medicine is going to be financed by a residual principle, and you can't do that at all. You've seen how many years we've been in the coronavirus pandemic, and we're still in the danger of Russian aggression, and we're going to need a lot of money and a lot of money in medicine, and it's not free of charge that was enshrined in the budget code. In no way can this be done, for medicine is one of the priorities for the state and requires proper funding. I ask you very much to fail this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u103	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u104	This right should be regulated by the Budget Code in accordance with the Budget Act of 2022, since we feel the same way that 5 percent is financed. However, the budgetary legislative capacity of the State budget itself, which provides for such funding, needs to be addressed. So I'm going to ask you to consider this amendment, to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've heard the position. It's a 102 amendment, it's a committee accounted for, but colleagues from the Voice faction insist on confirming this amendment. The committee says that it remains at its discretion to keep the correction in check. So I'm putting this amendment 102 to the vote. Please vote. [[11:41:03]] For-136 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Dear colleagues, no one insists anymore, so let us move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. And I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Accounting of Excise Taxes and the Implementation of Subjects for the Retail Trade in Tobacco Products (project registration number 5719). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:41:57]] For 278 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. We've got the next one. Thank you. 278, decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill we're going to talk about is 5090. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Settlement of Budget Relations in the Implementation of Contracts made under the State-Private Partnership, including concession contracts (this is second reading). I invite the deputy committee to the rostrum, deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Helen Eugene Copanczuk. Honorable Colleagues, 5090, will there be persons who will insist on taking their amendments into account? None. Will there be national deputies who will insist on confirming the amendments made by other national deputies? Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please number the amendment and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u106	Mr. Head, I had a letter to place on confirmation all the amendments. I'm not going to do that, and I'm not even going to make the first revision. I just want to emphasize once again how we had the situation so that we didn't have to do this again. And in the previous law, and in this law, there were regulations that applied to the subject matter of knowing the tax committee, they were changes to the tax code. And last time we had a big scandal here, 5719 didn't go through the hall. I would very much ask that all the committees, especially my favorite budget committee, never again make any changes concerning the subject of other committees' knowledge. I think it's right, it's a more professional approach and it certainly won't create such bad situations in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not going to put the editing on confirmation, you can look at it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I understand that we have completed the second reading discussion of this bill and are moving on to a decision-making process. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on budgetary relations in the implementation of agreements concluded in the framework of the State-private partnership, including concession contracts (project registration number 5090). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:44:49]] For 268. Decision taken. The law is to be passed in general. Congratulations, dear colleagues. Congratulations on the fact that the law has been passed, which I welcome. Now, one second, I want one announcement. A statement from the national deputy Kaltsev. "Please consider the result of the vote Rule 7048 as held up." I'm just going to read it, it doesn't have any legal effect. And one more thing. "It didn't work for me during the 4668 vote, please count my vote as "for." National Deputy of Ukraine Raducki." Mikhailo Borisovich, I read it, but... Please, who did? Rudik. Kira Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u108	Honorable Parliament, Your Honor! We ask for a day-to-day draft of the Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to enable territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of combat (6521). This is an extremely important law that we want to adopt as quickly as possible so that we can move forward with our defenses. Please put to the vote the matter of raising it in order of the day and considering it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, you have understood the proposal: to change the order of the day to today and to now move on to question 6521 is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to allow territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of military (combat) action. Dear colleagues, this is a proposal, and I'm putting it to a vote so that we can now go to Bill 6051. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:46:52]] For 337 Decision taken. One second, I need to find this bill. Yes, I did. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the draft Act on Amendments to the Covenant. One second. The draft Law 6521 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to allow territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of military (military) action (6521). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:47:55]] For 264 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich. Please, Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u110	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, this is another bill called to correct some of the disagreements in the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition. A lot of you signed it. The bill provides for the possibility of carrying out territorial defence tasks throughout Ukraine, including combat areas, as well as the possibility of carrying out terrorist tasks after the deployment of the main forces and resources in the area. What is the purpose of such changes? Without these changes, we will turn the territorial defense into security. And most importantly, with the changes we're going to take down the restrictions on the use of terror in case of necessity in combat, it actually removes the ban on them from fighting. This will be done by the decision of the Chief of Staff. Of course, we all understand that the main subject of armed aggression is our Armed Forces, and the terrorist forces have a number of tasks — support and security. But it is important that if military command is urgently needed, it is possible in separate directions to strengthen the Armed Forces of Ukraine also by territorial defence units. That's why these changes are so important, they not only remove the colossal laws, but also allow us to hunt our defenses. So, colleagues, please support this bill and support our territorial defenses. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u111	Heroic glory! The word is given to a co-reporter of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski. Please, Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u112	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council, at its meeting on 8 February this year, considered a bill proposed by Mr. Kostenko to amend the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to allow territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of combat (registration No. 6521). The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made some remarks before this bill. The committee at its meeting decided to take these comments into account when the bill was being finalized for second reading. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following its consideration of Bill No. 6521, adopt it on the basis of the first reading, instructing the committee to finalize the bill for the second reading, taking into account the amendments and proposals made by the legislators, by shortening the deadline for the submission of such amendments and proposals by half and submitting it to the Supreme Council for consideration in the second reading. This bill is really called upon to eliminate some contradictions regarding the possibility of territorial defence in combat zones in order to provide territorial defence with a truly comprehensive resistance to a potential aggressor. Therefore, a request to support the bill was made by voting on it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would very much like us to vote for a recess if we can do so without discussion or at least those who will be the first to discuss it. Please sign up: two in, two in. It's just that I'm asking very much that we should be able to vote it out by noon. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u115	Mikhail Zabrodsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u116	Fellow dignitaries, a truly valid National Opposal Act, preserves the mediocre linkage of the territorial defence force to the very fact of expansion or non-deployment in a particular area or zone of the TRO, the armed forces or the United Nations, and appropriately deters territorial defence from full involvement, including to the fraction of armed aggression. The approval of Law 6521 will allow the TRO on equal footing to join the armed aggression and will undoubtedly increase our ability to perform certain tasks, including in areas or areas of territorial defence of certain operations, such as the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Our political power will undoubtedly support this law, because it contributes to the overall growth of our ability to resist any aggressive plans of our opponent. At the same time, however, we will keep in mind that some guidelines on the formation of territorial defenses are unfortunately not enough, and the creation of volunteer headquarters does not solve all problems either. Time has given a clear answer – it will be someone. Now it's time to ask more serious questions -- what. If there is still clarity in firearms, for example, there is no answer to the question of where such numbers of armor, transportation, and means of communication are to be taken. And then there's the question of the learning and material base, and there's the question of the permanent location. And we see a way out in just one -- it's the targeted support of the state, it's the targeted budget funding of the appropriate TRO programs, because games in private armies that are wanted by individual regional leaders can be too dangerous in wartime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u117	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mealik Viktor Nichiporovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u118	Please give it to Rudik Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u119	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I'm going to tell you a big secret. The right to fight in the OOS zone in our defense is already in place, but it is granted only by the decision of the Chief of Staff. By voting for this rule in the first reading and in general, we're giving this opportunity any chance of life. But I am warning you against voting in general today after this bill. Why? Because there is not yet settled a number of situations that are not effective enough without the deployment of the terror today. First. Sadly, we were concerned with the question of how to reconcile a person with the right to use a weapon. Today, a terrorist has the right to use hunting, shooting, and other weapons, and, unfortunately, reserveists have the right to use only archery. In other words, I'm a reserve for the first line of SS forces, I have a gun, but I can't use it at the "C" time, and we have to do that before the second reading. The other one. We need to write out clearer formulations that the local self-government body has to make in order to create the right conditions for the RAP Force of Terror. It's not just classrooms in school, it can't be gyms, it's got to be a custom room where you can keep weapons, it's got to be a secret and other functional rooms without which you can't keep weapons. And the third. We must address the issue of rapid transfer to the balance of the State authorities of the terror, first and foremost, of the premises and equipment needed to do so. Colleagues, I call on a quick procedure to address these issues, to make changes to the second reading and to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u121	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, the "Golos" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u122	Please, Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u123	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you describe what this bill is about, I would call it very simple: it's a bill of common sense. It allows the territorial defenses to use weapons, weapons, and tasks in a war zone. Because if they don't, we don't know why they're made. If they don't, it's art for the sake of art, it looks beautiful on paper, but it has nothing to do with enhancing creativity and preparedness. Let me draw attention to a very important situation: the members of the profiling committee, regardless of party or factional affiliation, have unanimously supported this initiative by my colleague Roman Costenck. And once again, I hope that this same unanimity will be demonstrated by our colleagues when it comes to increasing financial expenditure, financial resources and the Territorial Defence Force, and for the security and defence sector as a whole, particularly with regard to increased expenditures on arms, arms and modernization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two minutes left and national deputy Dubil Valery Alexanderovich. Can I ask you to be able to vote by lunch or should I give you my word? Nadajchenko, please, Nadravichenko, and we won't be able to vote then. Then, Nestor Ivanovich, after the break, will be Nestor Ivanovich and others. Please, Nadajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies and dear citizens of Ukraine! Now it's not just a question, it's the defense of Ukraine. So territorial defense, Fatherland, suggests that we speak directly about what that means. This means Ukraine's all-inclusive, full and every citizen of Ukraine's ability, ability and desire to protect their country. This time. The other one. In this Parliament, we need to allow you and me from the central budget to provide all the needs for the establishment of the Territorial Defence Force. And so the bullets, and so on, the weapons, and so on, the connections, the points of mobilization, the points of communication and so on, and so on, have to be resolved here in Parliament. Next. We propose to everyone who has representation on district and district councils, political forces regardless of the name to mobilize district and district councils. To help create a truly effective and truly needed territorial defense. Next. Colleagues where there are professionals from the General Staff, leaders of the territorial defense, why aren't they in Parliament? Why not consult with them? Why don't we just ask the question that General Staff is. Ukraine should plan a professional, comprehensive and total defence of Ukraine, using effectively and modernly, including the newly created Territorial Defence Force. Next. We have to listen to Parliament when it comes to such bills, reports on the progress of the creation and provision of the Territorial Defence Force in the areas and areas of Ukraine. How much of the gold fund of our veterans of war against Russian aggression is involved today in the creation of the Territorial Defense Force? We don't know the answer to that question. And I think that's the key question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Then we will continue to discuss this bill and come to a decision on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. I remind you that we are in the process of considering Bill No. 6521. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition on granting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know, I'm just reminding you what law we're in. National opposition to allowing territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of military (military) action, Bill 6521. We are in the process of discussion yet, and two more people want to discuss – Nestor Ivanovich Sufric, then Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. And then we'll move on to making a decision if there's no more. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u129	Thank you, Mr. Head. Our faction will not support this bill, coming from the following. We have great experience, including military service. The main thing in the army is that it's one-of-a-kind. What is now being created by the terrorist system is actually balancing the management system and commanding our military forces. I'm an officer in the reserve of the Ukrainian army. I was Ukraine's Minister of Emergency Situations, and it was a great privilege for me to work with more than 60,000 military personnel, which included more than 20 generals, and I can't imagine two parallel armies. So let's get a hold of it, there's an army, there's a mobilisation plan, there's reserves, work with the reservists, not balance the army and the command system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u130	Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, of course, the "Trust" MP group, understanding the importance of adopting this bill, will support it. Yes, the second reading needs to be processed in a number of ways, but today we would like to pay attention to the responsible attitude of everyone on whom it depends, to the creation of a territorial defence system, to the creation of conditions for effective operation of brigades, battalions of territorial defense. Today, we have also discussed the need for a substantial increase in financial security, modern communications, and technology, all necessary to enable battalions to perform their functions. This is a shared task for all. That's what we want to pay attention to. The Trust MPs will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one else wants to speak? Then I ask the national deputies to take their seats. And I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to allow territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of military (military) action (project registration number 6521). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:41:55]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is still a proposal by the committee in line with part two of article 116 of the Rules to cut back half the time of proposals and amendments and preparations for the second. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Please, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u133	Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, honourable colleagues, in view of the situation in question, I propose that this bill be voted on as a whole right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u134	Arthur Volodymyrovich, I can offer. But as far as I heard earlier, it seemed like one of the groups she was saying was her. So she'll be against it. Dear colleagues, I ask you again. The OPCW is against it. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I can cut the lines. You know the rules if a faction against one or a group, even one person, I have to follow the Rules, as I always do. So, my dear fellows, I'm proposing to the committee to cut back on the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparation for the second reading of Bill 6521, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to allow territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of military (military) action. Are you ready to vote for half the time? Please vote. [[12:43:45]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Yeah, now I've got two breaks with a replacement for the show. First break from the "Serial of the People" and "Trust" factions. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitalia Bezgina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u135	It is very appropriate, colleagues, that this statement is now after the vote of the law on territorial defence, just as it is wonderful that Parliament is almost the only one on this issue. And it would be right and consistent if I were to talk about unity right now, the unity of the external enemy that we are so lacking. But I'm going to have to talk about pseudopatriotism and maximum political cynicism. Let me explain why. I now have representatives of the People's Party, the heads of the district organizations that spent time last week with the territorial defenses, taught them, consulted them, worked along the Belarus border, worked at the administrative border with the temporarily occupied Crimea and moved on. Because that's how our party initiated the appeal and initiated the district council meetings in an orderly manner to allocate funding to the terrorist in order to secure, rehabilitated, actually armed rooms and similar instruments that affect the country's security. But what happens in parallel, colleagues who speak of unity? Now I have a beautiful document on my phone, and this is the internal document of the European Solidarity Party. I'm just going to read that everyone, first of all Ukrainians, appreciate this maximum cynicism. During an online meeting with the heads of the secretariats of the territorial organizations of the party on February 14, the following tasks were announced: to communicate with the leaders of factions and groups on the local councils about the non-admission of the local councils to refer to the territorial defences initiated by the "Serve of the People". Colleagues, are you for the state or for the political ratings? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, of course, you can spin at the back now, but you have to be responsible for your actions. So please help those who really stand in the country’s defense and defend it rather than engage in politics. And you don't have to scream here, let the media check out who the relatives are now in the country they're in, it's going to be very consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! Replica, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Yeah, I get it right? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. It was called a party, a faction and a party, that's why. Who's it gonna be? Please, National Deputy Sumar, a lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, Russia's State Opinion voted by majority in favour of sending the President of the Russian Federation to decide whether the Ukrainian Donbas is occupied is Ukraine's territory or whether it's actually an independent so-called republic. This is another act of aggression by Russia against state sovereignty and Ukrainian independence. You know, I thought you were going to talk about it now because you're a party of authorities. You continue to pursue politics, and this is Ukraine's greatest tragedy today. Because "European Solidarity" believes, yes, today we need to unite, forgive, not around the surnames, today we need to unite around the defense of Ukraine. Correct your appeal, we will gladly correct it. We need to unite around Ukrainian sovereignty, not political ambitions present here in the hall, who simply want to preserve their authority rather than preserve the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, two factions, the Voice faction and the European Solidarity faction, have made a statement. Let's take a break. The word is given to two, yes, please. Heratchenko and Sharaskin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Just now, the State Department of the Russian Federation has accepted an appeal to the Kremlin dictator regarding the recognition of the so - called quasi - republics, the persecutor republics. This means the continuation of the war against Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. This means that our Western partners did not panic, but they warned the world and Ukrainian society that dozens of dismemberment scenarios were on the Kremlin table. This means one thing: Moscow's single exit from the Minsk Accords. This means that Moscow is for every paper and document, whether it's the Budapest Memorandum, or whether it's a big treaty ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the State of the Russian Federation, about friendship and cooperation, or whether it's the Budapest Memorandum, which unfortunately only provides for consultation without a solution for the Kremlin's father's dictator, one: they're being thrown into paper. And that's why it's true today. And in the Minsk Treaties, that's the same attitude, that's true. And so today, when Moscow has come out of all the documents that have just been signed or not signed, when it ignores the sovereignty of Ukraine, we expect from the Ukrainian authorities their plan of protection, our plan to protect the territorial integrity of Ukraine's sovereignty. What do we require? First. Right now, the sanctions lists for every scumbag in the state that I press against the dismemberment of Ukraine. And this is our call to the world. The other one. Now, look at the agenda so that you and I can adopt laws to support the Ukrainian army, not all that's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u140	Thank you, Irina. Colleagues, what does this mean by fact? What if only the President of the Russian Federation signs such a petition and directs it, they will do what they did in Abkhazia, what they did in Transnistria. They will enter their official armies legally and will come out on the line of collision. They are already accusing the Ukrainian authorities that we are committing genocide to our own people. We need to review all our positions on heavy weapons and prepare for our borders, the real borders of our state, and we need to do so now, and we need to send these orders right now. We need to review all of our security doctrine, because we have increased the enemy border now, and these laws must be passed in our Ukrainian Parliament. So let us give more unity and less politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u141	We now demand that laws be laid down that apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, let's keep going as long as the day goes by, as the consultations go on, there may be some changes. But once again, any changes to the agenda we decide in this room by voting. Dear colleagues, I've, by the way, been talking to some colleagues before this was here, and I'm so aware that there's an initiative. Okay. Dear colleagues, as we discuss this, let us move on to the next question. Bill 5723, this is the draft Law on the Universal Target Program "The Drinking Water of Ukraine" for 2022-2026 years (second reading) (5723). Dear colleagues, this is the second reading, and I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Uses of Prescek Eduardo Petrovich for the rostrum. Please. Dear colleagues, are there national deputies who wish to make adjustments? Yes, yes, I see. Will there be no one else? Yes, the people's MP Mikisha, please. Please. Where is he? Turn on the microphone, please. National MP Mikisha, please. You're the only one who calls the amendment number first. The apparatus, Mikisha’s national MP, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u143	Thank you. Mikisha Dmitri. 18 Amendments, What Is Its Purpose? The program is designed to renovate and restore water supplies and water supplies. And above all, these objects are on the balance of local self - government, and it is surprising that the program currently includes the Ministry of Community Development, Territory, District, Kiev, and Sevastopol State Administrations, but there are no local authorities. And this is exactly the mistake that I want to correct by correcting that there should also be local self-government of the basic level -- rural, rural and urban councils. Colleagues, please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u144	Okay, once again, 18 amendments, yes, the Mikishi People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please, the position of the committee, why.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u145	This amendment is rejected in view of the fact that the executives of the program report to the Ministry on the use of funds, in fact, with this argument. Therefore, please leave the decision of the committee unchanged and do not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u146	Thank you. Got it. So, the honourable colleagues, of course, yes, there is the amendment of the Mikishi People’s Deputy, and he reasoned on why he required it to be taken into account. There is a position of committee that insists that it remain rejected. So I'm betting on the 18th amendment. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:47]] For-170. No decision taken. The amendment remains rejected. Dear colleagues, will someone else make their adjustments? Please pass it on to Maslov, please. The Maslov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u147	Thank you, colleagues. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u148	Amendment numbers first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u149	Number 3. I will not ask for a vote. As I communicate with the inhabitants of the Dnipropetrov region, I hear many complaints about the quality of water: dirty, stinking, rust, and this in all the locations almost. More than 3 million people in the Dnipropetrov region and almost all use water from the Dnipro River, which you can see for yourself. In order to remedy this situation, new pipelines, new treatment plants, and this huge amount of money, local budgets are not enough. The Dnipropetrov region spent nearly 30 million last year building new water stations, but more than a thousand settlements still have no centralized water supply. This government program will solve these problems. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u150	Thank you. Don't you insist on betting? Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I am addressing the national MPs, is there anyone who would like to take account of his amendment? There are no wanters. Now I'm going to the National Deputies, would anyone like to place any amendments that have been taken into account for confirmation? He doesn't want to. So we can move on to making a decision. I invite the National Deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the State-wide Targeted Social Program "Press Water of Ukraine" for 2022-2026 years (project registration number 5723). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[13:00:29]] For 338 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see what you got. Out of procedure, huh? Please, Irina Heratschenko from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, we reiterate that it seems to us that the Supreme Council should now unite around a key one -- the protection of territorial integrity, the sovereignty of Ukraine and the support of the Ukrainian army. We welcome the decision of the budget committee, which in a minute came together to resolve the issue of the possible closure of the sky over Ukraine in order to support aviation. Please tell me, when we have a new attack on our sovereignty today on Putin regarding the recognition of quasi-proxy republics, you and I are pretending that nothing is happening. I ask you to put now, Mr. Head, in order of the day two bills: raising the salaries of the military (this is the Zabrodsky bill, a man who knows perfectly well that the Ukrainian army needs it today) and the second bill of our faction, a bill that says that 50 billion dollars must be transferred to the support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Irina Volodymyrovna Heratchenko's offer. The only thing I'm going to do is inform you that the relevant bills, which are in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, are going to be discussed on Thursday in order to increase the funding of the Ukrainian army. That's why. But I have to make your offer. I'll make you an offer. Please, Your Honor, Irina Volodymyrovna Heratschenko's proposal, I'm putting her to a vote. [[13:02:38]] For 131 The decision is not taken. Please. Even from the procedure? Please proceed with the procedure. The factions. Klimenko's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ruslan Alexiyovich, are offering to gather the heads of factions and groups to discuss the situation that has now arisen in connection with the decision taken by the Duma and the actual recognition of the independence of the ORDLO. So maybe we have a point either now or after the meeting to gather the heads of factions and groups and discuss these issues and make what decisions. Because the question is not only about financing the army, there are many questions that arise around this and making this decision by the Duma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u154	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. I got it. I think after we're done, we'll get together, but I'll just keep on, okay, talking to the Czech speaker, but I think we'll find time to get together and talk. Dear colleagues, let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the offer? Break up now and go? The proposal was for Arthur Volodymyrovich, look, it's not your proposal, it's Mrs. Julia Klimenko's offer. She said that either now or after she had finished. Look, Arthur Volodymyrovich, you can take a statement from two factions and groups and go out for 30 minutes to communicate, that's not the question. Why now turn it into a misunderstanding? [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't understand what my offer is. Mrs. Julia, what offer should I make? All right, thanks, no suggestions. A German from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to hear me a little bit now that we need to get together to resolve the issue of removing the blockade to solve the issue of putting those people on the other side of the barricade, we're going to call them in a social protection system. You're on your own. I want European Solidarity, you scream, you put the blockade there yourself. You gave the occasion, you gave the opportunity to ask the question of secession, because it reminds us, in fact, of colonial territory. We made it a thorny wire.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u156	I'm sorry, National Deputy Germany, you took one minute out of the procedure, not from political statements. If you have a proposal from the procedure, like the previous colleagues did, I'll be happy to hear it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u157	I'm out of procedure. Solve this issue, lift the blockade, bring these people to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Parliament has already voted on several occasions today, including those concerning foreign parliaments and international organizations regarding so-called "LNR" and "DNR", which is, in principle, our position has already been heard today. Moreover, we do not forget that foreign policy in the country is defined, including by the President of Ukraine. And I do have a proposal for meeting the factions' heads, to do it tomorrow morning when the relevant information is operational. To invite a speaker from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to this meeting and to consult appropriately with the Ministry of Education on this additional security situation that is taking place around our borders. And now I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u160	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. Julia, would you like to clarify your offer? Please, Julia Klimenko. But let's get to work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u161	Mr. Speaker, my suggestion was to take a 30-minute break for a group and factions meeting and discuss what our further actions and statements have been made in connection with the new information on the State Duma's decision. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u162	Okay. Dear colleagues, I'll just say, our position has been voted out since morning, if you don't know. We voted for it, and you're a co-author. But I'm going to set your offer for 30 minutes to get together now, to discuss. Dear colleagues, please, who sees the need for this, please vote. I'm betting on Mrs. Julia Klimenko's offer. [[13:08:03]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Show the factions, please. Let's move on. The next bill is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the development of energy storage systems (this second reading), Bill 5436-d. I invite the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Andry Mikhailovich Gerus, to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, this is a second reading, so I immediately ask my colleagues if there are those among them who want to. I understand. Are there those who want to make adjustments? Yes. I see, Zupanin, I see Alexi Yuriovich, yes. Pucherenko and Jupanin. I think he's going first. Amendment number 10, County, please. It's considered editorially. Please, Mr. County.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! What's this paper about? Edit, it's coming out of the law of hydroaccumulative stations and it's going to leave the tariff for the transmission of electronic energy to the industry at the level at which it's set today. Because if this is rejected, then this tariff will grow potentially by 0.5 copies, which will generate quite a lot of costs for this industry, taking into account the 62 percent inflation that exists today in 2021, is fixed for industry. So this amendment, it's for the Ukrainian industry, it's for the Ukrainian producers, it's increasing the competitiveness of Ukrainian products in domestic and external markets. So that's why it was given. The committee considered it only editorially. I ask you to put her to the vote as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, the correction can only be made by the author, nobody else, you understand. This is an editorial amendment, and the author wants to be taken fully into account. So, dear fellows, I bet. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u165	Good afternoon! See, if this adjustment is counted, this rule will not work at all. As far as I know, Andrew Victorovich's a litigator, he puts it in order not to put it on confirmation. Of course, it doesn't have to be voted for, so it's taken into account, actually, editorially, not entirely. Because the editors and the terms used there are going to lead to the fact that this is not going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, the amendment of the 10th National Deputy of the Jurassic is taken into account in an editorial way. At the same time, the national deputy Zupanin asks that it be fully accounted for. The committee, I understand, insists that the rest be taken into account in an editorial manner. So, dear fellows, I'm proposing that the National Deputy of the County be fully accounted for. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:35]] For-68 The decision is not taken. You won't have any more of your amendments, will you, National Deputy County? It won't. Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, which number of the amendment should be spoken immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u167	Thank you, Mr. Head. 69 readjustment. I will act quickly in support of this bill. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. And what I'm trying to say is that I personally withdrew my dispute, and I've withdrawn my alternative bill to get this very necessary bill through the hall as soon as possible. I want to focus on two things. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, dear friends, if you and I had been with you for two and a half years in September 19th, we would have adopted such laws, not the laws on the import of Russian electricity, Belarus, we would have a much more stable energy system today, and we wouldn't need Belarusian imports. That's the first one. And the second. I very much ask no one for confirmation to balance this law. I mean, vote him in an editorial like the committee did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u168	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. I mean, I take it you don't insist? Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else? Speedboat, Anna Speedboat. Wait, you go first. One second, I ask you again, I'm now addressing colleagues whose rights are not fully accounted for, rejected. You don't have any more suggestions to take them into account? None. I understand that Anna Constantine would be put, not for consideration, but for confirmation, right? Please, Ana Constantine's Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, you have just been confirmed by the chairman of the committee that we have been deceived, including on the committee. In fact, this paper was about the removal of hydroaccumulation stations from the notion of energy storage, energy storage and energy storage operators. So just state companies were thrown out to provide private companies, that's all of Ukraine's interests. This amendment, which was made by Mr. County to prevent me from putting it on the stand, will cost Ukrhydroenergo 670 million dollars. It's just so you know. In fact, with such an amendment, the bill has to be re-readed so that every "skins" we have through the committee don't get into the hall and really don't launch very good drafts. So my opinion and I ask you to listen, return to the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u170	Are you insisting on putting 1 correction into account? You don't insist, do you? Okay, then we'll assume that there can't be a vote on it either. Aleksei Alexiyovich Honcharenko came along, he wants 3 amendments, right? Alexyyyovich, 3rd Amendment for Confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I think we are now going to have a meeting, and there will be something else to react to, but it is very important right now for the entire Supreme Council to say together: Donetsk is Ukraine! Lugansk is Ukraine! I'm asking everyone to stand up and give it a big round of applause. Friends, please, let's all support each other. This is our land, these are our people, so that they can push their "state even" decision further away. Donetsk is Ukraine! Lugansk is Ukraine! Donetsk is Ukraine! Lugansk is Ukraine! Donetsk is Ukraine! Lugansk is Ukraine! Donetsk is Ukraine! Lugansk is Ukraine! Donetsk is Ukraine! Lugansk is Ukraine! Friends, the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u172	The hero of glory, Alexei Alexiyovich. Believe me, in this room, I am convinced that no one or no one has doubts about this, believe me. Dear colleagues, will there be anyone else? I understand that some hot consultations are being held on this bill. Dear colleagues, will there be anyone else who can make adjustments for confirmation? No, it's not. Then let us move on to making a decision. Andrew Mikhailovich, can we move on to a decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u173	I think we can move on to making a decision. The only thing I would ask is for everyone to take their seats so that everyone can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the National Deputies to take their seats, and please proceed to the vote for this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the development of energy storage systems (project registration number 5436-d). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:17:05]] For 312 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. One second. Dear colleagues, we've spoken to you and some colleagues at other factions, so that now, if there is such a possibility, to go to the Bills, they're standing today, but pick them up today in order of the day. 3731, it's a matter of National Guard identification. 6401, this is about local self-government to ensure the transparency of local self-government. 5644, 5433, 6194 and 7001. Dear colleagues, do this after 5526, after Bill 5526, which we talked about, yes. Switch to issues 3731, 6401, 5644, 5433, 6194 and 7001. Do you have a deal? One minute at a time. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u175	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, dear colleagues, we will not support this transfer, I will explain a very simple reason. Now the question is very simple, we're addressing you as the Head of the Supreme Council you have the regulatory right to take a break right now. On this break, each faction brings a list of drafts, I stress, prepared, which relate to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which apply to our defenses. From us, it's 6542, 6518 with respect to military personnel, about 50 billion per army. After that, the committees work urgently, and we make this decision in the hall. We have 1 hour of work left for today, Ruslan Alexiyovich, so we won't support it. And I propose to all factions and groups not to support this transposition of laws, most of which have nothing to do with it. But support the proposal to immediately announce a recess, to immediately reconcile the list of laws, five, ten, that apply to the Armed Forces, and to now vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u176	Thank you. Please, who else would like to make a statement? Arthur Volodymyrovich, after the proposal you made, said the hall today. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, voting on the State Duma is certainly a serious complication of a situation that is already too complicated. We must now not exorcise, give up any bravado, panic, think about what we should do so that Russia will not finally recognize the so-called DNR and LNR. We have no right to allow ourselves to be provoked by the loss of our Ukrainian citizens and their respective territories. I would now like to invite the leadership of the Office of the President and the President of Ukraine to explain to us their assessment of what has happened. You can catch it, but you can lose it on the hajpi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I explain this proposal. We're going through two Bills 5330-1, then 5526, then 3731, 6401, 5644, 5433, 6194 and 7001. So we're going to go to two more bills, and then those that are related to the National Guard, with the openness of local self-government, we raise them up. Dear colleagues, are you ready to support this proposal? Members of the national parliament, please take your seats and support this offer, Your Honor. Please vote. [[13:22:03]] For 289 Decision taken. So let's go through this scenario. Bill 5330-1 is now under way. It's a second reading, it's a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Social Moral Protection to protect the rights and best interests of the child. I would like to invite the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Humanities and Information Policy, Tetjan Vasilska. Please, Aunty Vasilyvna. Because it's a second reading and I see that all the proposals are taken into account or taken into account editorially, right? But all the same, are there persons in whom proposals are taken into account editorially or partially, or do they want to be fully? They don't want to. Now I'm going to ask the national MPs, would anyone like to make the proposals that are taken into account for confirmation? He doesn't want to. Dear colleagues, we can then believe that we have completed the discussion of this bill and move on to a decision. Dear colleagues. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose that the committee adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Social Morality on the Protection of the Rights and Best Interests of the Child (registration number 5330-1). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:23:59]] For 344 Decision taken. Today is just the day of national unity. What's tomorrow? Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next question 5526, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport on Veterans Sports of Ukraine (second reading). I invite the head of the Youth and Sports Committee, Andrija Anatoliyovich Kozemyakina, to speak. Project registration number 5526. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I am addressing national MPs whose rights have been rejected or are not fully taken into account. Will anyone insist that his amendments be taken into account? No one will. I appeal to the National Deputies whether any of them wish to amend the other deputies that are considered to be valid. Nobody. Thank you. The bill is closed. I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport on Veterans Sport of Ukraine (project registration number 5526). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:25:50]] For 340. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Yeah, now I'm showing myself. Next, you and I voted that we're going to Bill 3731, one second. 3731, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act (for the identification of Ukrainian National Guard personnel in the performance of public order and security tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:26:57]] For 272 Decision taken. I invite the author of the bill of the Ukrainian National MP Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, in a democratic state, there can be no equal and even more equal. The point is that we have a mixed view of the National Police and National Guard personnel in performing certain functions of public order, mass action or convoying, that is, peaceful territory, not when the National Guard, for which it is honored and praised, is performing functions of defense of our state. The point is, before that, you and I have passed laws that require identification, actually, of the National Police during such measures to prevent abuse of duty. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the National Guard, and we understand that, as the previous minister, Mr. Habakkuk, the National Guard was in the favorites. Unfortunately, then, when the National Guards involved in public order strike or act, it is extremely difficult to get to the truth and prevent such acts from happening, for it is unrealistic to identify who did. You and I have witnessed very negative cases like this, in particular, and with respect to our colleague Roman Lozinski, when we applied force, we hindered his parliamentary activity, we couldn't identify it. Habakkuk is no longer in office; we have the opportunity to correct this neglect, in fact, to bring responsibility. And I thank the profile committee for a long time, but I supported the bill as much as possible. The bill is not political, it guarantees rights to our citizens, so please the entire House.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u180	Thank you. I invite you to report to Michael Galina Olegovna, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, this bill improves the identification of National Guard personnel involved in the task of ensuring public order and ensuring public security. In particular, the bill introduces the assignment of identification numbers to such military personnel and obliges them to secure a badge directly in the chest area with an individual number while performing public order and public security tasks. That is, during meetings, rallies, action, demonstrations, and other mass activities. This bill will create a single base, free access to the official website of which only persons who will be identified by the applicant will have access to the official website. The individual provisions of the bill correspond to international declarations, conventions and European principles of law enforcement in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the European Union Advisory Mission in Ukraine, the National Police support the bill by making some remarks. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the National Academy of Internal Affairs of Ukraine propose substantial revisions to the bill. The Committee on Law Enforcement and Committee members noted that the bill would provide preventive measures to reduce the number of violations among Ukrainian National Guard members, but cautioned about the risks of information dissemination, the personal information of Ukrainian National Guard personnel and the assumption of responsibility for the dissemination of such information. In view of the above, the committee, at its meeting on December 9, 20th, decided to recommend Bill 3731 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u182	Thank you, Galina Olegna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u183	Ionushas Sergio, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u184	Sergei Konstantinovich Ionushas, please. Ionushas. From where? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, please support this bill, its purpose is to create a system for the personal identification of National Guard personnel involved in the public order and public security tasks. Similar Chevrons exist with representatives of the National Police, and this is not news to our nation. In order to achieve the stated goal, the bill proposes to supplement many laws and create a single base of individual numbers for the National Guard and carry a token, a badge with an individual number. I would like to point out that this bill is supported not only by representatives of the people's servants, but also by Alexander Ustinov's first author. This bill is also supported by Jaroslav Železniak, who is among the authors. So this bill has the unity and the representatives of the people's servants and the representatives of the opposition. That's why I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you, Your Honor. Our committee has approved this bill to recommend to the Supreme Council, and as a result of the first reading, please support and accept it as a basis, we will work on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u186	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the speech of the Ukrainian National Deputy Veliczovich Mikola Romanović, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please. I understand, Vitatrovitch Vladimir Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u187	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The essence of the bill is that not only police officers but also members of the National Guard should have individual numbers to identify them by. And these numbers are supposed to be on the badges or nazgwarts' necklaces when they're doing their homework. The introduction of such an identification will certainly reduce the number of citizens’ rights violations by the Nazis, especially during peaceful measures. Unfortunately, such violations are not uncommon. And when the Nazis are in the helmets and their faces are not visible, the individual number on the token is a clear warning against illegal actions. Every member of the military has to realize that in the event of improper use of force against citizens, his person will be installed. That's why "European Solidarity" certainly supports this bill in the first reading. At the same time, we feel that we need to make changes to our second reading, especially in the defense of the military. In particular, the European Union’s Advisory Mission in Ukraine, as well as the Ministry of Justice, notes that the bill’s free online database with the numbers of the Nazis can pose a real threat to them and their relatives. The bill rightly stipulates that the Nazis should not carry individual numbers in the area of Russian aggression on Donbas. It is also logical to extend this rule to the possible actions of the Nazis in response to external aggression in other areas of Ukraine. We hope that the corresponding changes will be made to the second reading. And we urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. We hope that this bill will change the situation in Nacgardia, maybe even a little bit more than the National Police. Unfortunately, last week there were cases where the National Police were violating existing legislation, particularly by preventing members from doing their work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u188	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u189	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, as a representative of the faction that initiated this bill, we will support this bill in the first reading. We hope to have a quick look at the future. We also hope that this bill will not be the last in the way of reforming the law enforcement system that has really matured long ago. We see so many cases of conscription by the police, including the Nazis, that we need to do something about. We see the inadequacy of responding to the challenges facing society today. And I really hope that we can get back to this discussion, but later. Now, guys, I don't want to talk about this bill right now, but what's actually going on in Parliament right now. Now that the whole world is writing, it's saying, it's panicking about the recognition of the LLDP, we're talking about the bills here in Parliament, and we're refusing to acknowledge this reality that's happening right now. My friends, I'm sorry, but now the Supreme Council looks completely inadequate. Now, at a time when all international partners want to hear a reaction, they want to hear a position, we're discussing secondary ones, despite all respect for authors, drafts. Friends, we're going to discuss all these bills, we're going to reform the country and make it better, but we're going to do it when we first protect it. And to do that now, you have to act hard and fast. I am very sorry that the Presidium is now refusing to gather and to discuss urgently the situation that has arisen. I'm very sorry that there are no time-bound meetings of the International Relations Committee now that there are no clear statements by the government and all of our profile committees here in the House of Parliament. My friends, I'm sorry, all these bills need to be postponed and we need to now discuss how we, as a parliament, will react to what the Russian State Duma has done. If we don't do it now, we'll talk about all the other bills with you in the shades of Russian prisons. So once again, I'm going to the Presidium to gather and now talk about what's really important about what just happened in Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u190	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" is going to support this bill, because I'm going to give you a little bit of attention. The identification must be, but all those who are authorized to do so must be in order to protect public order. At present, we have been able to give authority to such other than the National Police, some other organs. But the I.D. actually exists in the National Police. But since the creation of the I.D. and the base, how many people who are identified have been called to account by the National Police for exceeding their authority? Is there such information in anyone or in the drafters? There is no such information. And, remember, when the FOPS were being chased around every square, who was drawn to responsibility? The answer is obviously no one. The identifier must be used. And why would the Opposition Platform for Life support it? Because in this bill, you can imagine, it looks like, let's do the numbers again, but no more. What about helmets? A basic identifier is a helmet that protects the public order, where a given number, which is issued and which can, in fact, be identified in the course of the investigation or establishment of that fact, dot. There's no sign on public order. Let's work on this bill and still figure out who's running the Ukrainian National Guard, the President or the Minister of Internal Affairs. So far, the law has not been signed by the President. And to this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else would like to comment on this question? No one else, right? I'm sorry, I see, I see, I see. Mikhailo Mihailovich Zimbaluk, then Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk, "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u193	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, People's Deputies! The bill was really necessary, but he was on the committee for so long, and no one brought him into the session room. Whether it should be considered right now, I think there are far more important bills. I'd like to make a few professional comments that we can work on for a second reading. Colleagues have already mentioned that the free deployment of the Internet database of Ukrainian National Guard military personnel will endanger their and their families' safety. This should be thrown out clearly. Next. It is necessary to clarify the correcting of the type of document in which the individual number is to be indicated in different categories of military personnel. In view of the fact that a token or a badge with an identification number of military personnel is actually meant to be part of a uniform. We also need to make changes. We vote yes, we work together for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u194	Thank you, Mikhailovich. The word is given to Volodymyr Yuriovich Aresonkov, the "Trust" group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u195	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, what is this bill about? Actually, what we're talking about very often. What the legal relationship between the State and the citizen should be, between representatives or law enforcement officials, special military units, and citizens on the basis of rights, yes, rights, and some and those who carry out the service. And today, the issue of clear identification is also important for the National Guard military, but it is also very important for ordinary citizens. Because when difficult situations arise, we will be able to identify precisely and clearly who will be responsible for any wrongdoing or vice versa.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one else wants to speak? Then let us move on to making a decision. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats, Your Honorable Fellow Members, to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act (for the identification of Ukrainian National Guard personnel in the performance of public order and public security tasks) (project registration number 3731). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:44:17]] For 326 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the next bill. We're going to come in after every question and put the same thing on, yeah, I get it? Look, let's ask the questions on which halls have already been identified, let's not abuse. All right, Arthur Volodymyrovich, which one of you will it be? Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u197	Dear Mr. Head! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at present, in the towers of the Supreme Council, including the elevators of the Supreme Council, about 20-30 people's deputies in Ukraine are smoking coconuts. I would like to address you as the Head of the Supreme Council with a request that you appeal to a colleague who, first of all, the electorate of the people should respect Ukrainian legislation. It seems to me that these acos are just as inadequate as today's order of the daily Parliament and disrespect for Ukrainian society when you look at anything other than what's in the agenda today. We ask you to appeal to your colleagues, because there are, above all, representatives of the majority, to respect the laws that you have voted for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have no opportunity to check whose national deputies are there anymore, whether they are there at all. But I'm just addressing all the people's deputies, and we have to respect the legislation that we're adopting, we have to do everything we can not to violate the standards that we want. Aikos, cigarettes and all are evil, and I don't smoke or advise you. Let's move on, dear fellows. We're going to Bill 6401, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to ensure the transparency of local self-government. This is a project of the national MP of Lozinski. We have to vote first in favour of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:46:36]] For 257 Decision taken. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u199	Roman Lozinski, Lvivščina Honorable colleagues, a bill for local self - government, local self - government, and to ensure its development, transparency, and investment attractiveness. If you've given me 10 seconds to explain what this bill is about, I would clearly say, online transmissions, no skins under the table, a register of utility property, an investment appeal to everyone to have access to this data, a thorough inventory, as well as day-to-day meetings of permanent commissions that are always missing, should also be public. What are these standards for, and who are their authors? By these standards, my initiative was supported by colleagues of virtually all factions and groups. Our committee unanimously decided to support him in the first reading. I'm sure after the amendments we'll work out and it'll be useful for local self-governance, online broadcasts of local council meetings, always kill skins. Tax payers need to know what the electorate is doing in the local government, have the opportunity to analyze each speech and each position, or match the party program from which they applied. The second novel is a register of utility property. We know very well that without inventory and without registration, such property is regularly lost. It's in someone's pocket, it's in someone's property register. But instead of making money from the community, they make money from individual citizens. And finally. We suggest that we publish the order of the decisions, the order of the day meetings of the committees. We are well aware that important decisions are being made at committee meetings, and we will insist that this too is transparent. This is going to be a test, as this House has voted: for transparency of local self-government, or for skinheads, we will see.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u200	Thank you. I invite you to report to the co-rapporteur, the head of the committee's subcommittee on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Vitaly Yuriovich Bezgin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Romana Lozinski. In fact, it's a committee bill that brought the factions together on the committee. It's really about transparency in community work, about decision making being made public, decisions being made available to citizens. In principle, I think when we talk about oversight, first of all we have to talk about voter supervision, and this bill allows it. It was the Committee's general discussion that concluded: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government (No. 6401) on the basis of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with part two of article 109 of the Supreme Council Rules, that the deadlines for submission of proposals and rights to the Bill for registration number 6401 be reduced by half. I'm going to point out that this position is equally consistent with the Association of Local Self-Government, so the committee is asking everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u202	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u203	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u204	Please, Vitarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" supports this bill. Its approval will allow for open data on municipal property, increase transparency in the work of local councils, and strengthen the requirements of the Law on State Language by amending the Law on Local Self - Government, which will require the use of Ukrainian language in local authorities. Again, last week's situation in Kharkiv reminds us that this is unfortunately necessary. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of colleagues to another bill of 4582, which we have brought together 30 colleagues from different factions and groups, which systematically addresses the issue of openness, both by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by the authorities of local self-government. Almost a year ago, he was approved by the committee. The "Reanimation Package of Reforms" and other civil society institutions called on Parliament to adopt this bill, which provides for the broadcasting and storage of session records, as well as parliamentary committee meetings, the right to broadcast freely, film or record at sessions and commissions of local councils, free access to protocols and transcripts of parliamentary committees. The bill that we're looking at is now registered two months ago, and it's good that we're already looking at it in the hall. We urge all our colleagues to support him. At the same time, I call on my colleague and, above all, the Parliament's leadership to finally take the floor and support Bill 4582. Both of these projects are mutually reinforcing and their adoption will enhance the openness of Parliament and local governments. And it's almost finished. It's very important that we look at such drafts, but they are not urgent right now. Bills aimed at strengthening the country’s security are urgent. Colleagues, let's not hide from this, let's adopt laws that will strengthen the country's security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u206	Thank you. Frolov Paul Valeriovich, "Serve of the People"
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u207	Please pass the word to Michaela Laby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u208	Please, Michael Laba.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u209	Good afternoon, dear friends! Today, thousands of our deputies on local councils are always calling on us, colleagues, to address the issue of considering certain or other legislative initiatives at the local level in united territorial communities, as well as the work of united territorial communities, transparency, and the accuracy of giving public answers to our deputies, members of all levels. I'd like to say that the investment of every OTG is when there's really a master plan on the site, there's a detailed plan, there's public information, there's information about the holding of meetings. their plenary sessions, as well as those of the interlocutors, as well as the standing committees. There are now many complaints, complaints all over the country about the work of local self - government authorities. Today, many resources are located in united territorial communities, and residents have the right to know when and where they are doing their own and the authorities chosen there today. But it has to be done completely in public space. So I encourage this bill to be finalized. We're going to give a couple of good rights to the law. And please support him now in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u210	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u211	Please pass the word to Bondariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u212	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u213	Constantine Bondarev, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, we're definitely for transparency, and we're against skinheads. "Skulls" can still be called political corruption. Maybe we should start with that. But political corruption, it doesn't start with local self-government, it starts here, with the distribution of socio-economic development or other political corruption. We've got a major out of law, that's nice, let's move on, about the fair distribution of money in the territories. What do we want with you now? What about the extra stress on local self - government? Yes, in recent years we have given authority to places, but with these powers, we have put the heat on the feet of local self - government in the form of money, expenses of money. There's no money in the local government today to pay the utility bills, raise the tariffs, there's no money for wages today. You want to put a new strain on local self-government, give me the money. Today, according to the Territorial Defence Act, authorities of local self - government should acquire bullets to secure the work of a terrorist. Put the money in place, and then you'll talk about the skins. "Scoons" starts in the Supreme Council, who doesn't know. And those who work in local governments are transparent because they are responsible for voting before the people and in front of their constituents. "Paternity" won't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u214	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u215	Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u216	Please, Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u217	Larissa Bilozer, Trust MP, 15th constituency, Winnitzkin. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! I am convinced that the activities of local authorities should be transparent. Every citizen has the right to know what happens, what decisions are made. This bill of Roman Lozinski's authorship, and I'm also a co-author there, and a lot of colleagues, it's about the fact that communities and citizens have the right to know about all decisions taken by the authorities and new changes will increase the level of involvement of citizens. Today we have no control over the state's decisions, the acts of local self-government, if the prosecutor's office has done so before, today we have not passed the law on local government administrations, and unfortunately there is very often a drainage of the land. Even when there's a broadcast, they take off, they just turn off the broadcast of the sessions, they open the session, and they make 400 or 500 decisions on the ground in a month, and the citizens and residents of this community don't know or understand who they're handing out this land to. So decentralization has really made it a unique opportunity to manage all the countries, to have great opportunities for development, to rent this land on auctions, and to fill the budget, and on the other hand, there are cases of voting during sessions that are hidden, the decisions are not posted on websites, and we have just a lot of land in places. It is therefore very important that people, although people, in places, control the activities of local self-government bodies and participate directly in the development of communities and the decision-making process of the communities be transparent. Please support this bill, it's very timely and necessary for our development.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u218	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, Group "For the Future".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u219	Dear friends, should our citizens know how transparently or not, local authorities share property? Yes, of course. Should our deputies of local councils speak and use the national language constantly? Yes, of course. Should citizens know when the session will take place and what questions will be considered? Yes, of course. But is that all the local self - government needs today? Last week, while some of them were out looking for charter tickets, I traveled around eight communities in Cherkaščina: Lesicki, Rotmistrovka, Balakleia, Białozria, Stepanka, Smilla - where money will be paid for all municipal expenses in the social sphere. This is a question that we need to solve in the complex. We vote in favour of this bill, but we don't forget the main ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else would like to speak? Still, please, Vasilchenko, I can see that, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u221	Galina Vasilchenko, 118 constituency, Lviv. Dear colleagues, I have more and more appeal from citizens, actually from OTG, that the authorities of local self-government work transparently. Such a banal simple solution as online transmissions, such as publishing agendas, decisions, people, our voters have the right to do so and it should be provided to them. Clearly, this law needs to be upheld. But here many of my colleagues are talking about additional funds for the united communities. A year ago, my colleagues and I registered an appropriate bill to increase the number of PDFs in the community to 65 percent. Bill 5066, we, Ruslan Alexiyovich, have asked you to join the agenda as well as the Committee on Budgets, it is absolutely necessary and it is now possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u222	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies please prepare to make a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to ensure the transparency of local self-government (registration number 6401). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:02:00]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is still a proposal by the committee to cut back on the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments for the preparation of the second reading according to part two of Rule 116. I'm also putting this motion to a vote, shortening the two sentences and the amendments to the second reading. Please vote on Bill 6401. [[2:02:36]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next bill, 5644, is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the regulation of notary activity. Before I go to the question, I propose to consider this issue, Bill 5644, in a simplified manner. Vote please, Your Honor. [[14:03:20]] For 254 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Igor Pavlovich Fries, to speak. He's both from the authors and the committee, so four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u223	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, in 95, the first Notariat Act was passed, which changed the approach to notaries, to notarial services, to the ability of people to receive maximum assistance from a legal profession like a notary. In 99th year, I was given my testimony on the right to take up notary activities and for more than 20 years it was my main profession, and tens of thousands of people were getting professional services from notaries of Ukraine all this time. Since 2009, private notaries have been given the authority to certify an inheritance. Since 2013, private and public notaries have been given the opportunity to become state registrars for real estate. I am pleased that notaries, my former colleagues, have the greatest confidence in society. More than 80 percent of our citizens trust an institution like the Notaryate. And most of you, my esteemed colleagues in this room, in one way or another, are looking for their help, for a professional certificate, a certificate and a document. This bill, which is now under consideration, which is first read, it improves the system of notary organs. We're taking the notary to an entirely new level, one that is in the world. Ukraine made a commitment by becoming a member of the International Union of Notaries. Such as a comparison in full rights between public and private notaries, and a gradual transition to a single system of notariat, which is throughout the civilized world. When a person does not need to choose a private and public notary. He goes straight to the notary and gets the maximum qualified services. One that protects socially vulnerable groups of citizens through a private notary, allowing such citizens to receive free notary services. We are already a country in which a notary is a self-governing professional organization and the only professional organization of self-employed persons has been created, the Notary Chamber of Ukraine. By this law we delegate to her the powers of others who were not yet in possession of her and referred to the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Justice. But Minust understands that notariat is developing and is part of that chain of notaries, international notaries that need additional powers of self - control. We're expanding the circle of notarial relations and things where the notaries will be directly involved. It's an electronic notary. This is an electronic certificate of signatures and an electronic certificate of trust, and then a lot more. The notary of Ukraine needs to be updated in part of its powers and rights. Many colleagues referred to the idea of testimony and certain legal facts, such as websites. It is also the subject of regulation of this law. On our Legal Policy Committee, we discussed this bill, it's conceptual and it's big. We have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this bill as a basis and to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce at a plenary meeting during the consideration of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the regulation of notarial activity (register No. 5644) (since June 10, 2021), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Fries and other national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u224	Thank you. Well, that's all I'm gonna do. So you said for four minutes, Igor Petrovich, well, you got involved. Thank you. Thank you. 116th, yeah. I have what you said after 116. Dear colleagues, please tell me if there is a need for discussion. Please register: two, two, against, to discuss this extremely interesting bill. Please. The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u225	Mr. Golovo, please pass the word to Knyazevitch Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u226	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u227	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. Frankly, this bill is another small revolution in the legislative regulation of notariat. Personally, I am very proud that as early as 2008, I was present at a meeting of the Supreme Council and on a committee where we have just tried or failed to take one of the most fundamental steps by empowering private notaries to testify to an inheritance. At the time, it seemed an extraordinary challenge, no one believed it, there was an enormous amount of criticism, but life showed and confirmed our truth. I hope that today, although not everyone understands what, but we will take this big step forward when, given the possibility of a five-year transition period, we do get to meet our international legal commitments that Ukraine has made since the year 96 and move on to the only notary in Ukraine. This bill just gives us a clue as to how we should move. So in this part, of course, it needs to be fundamentally supported. Just as additional powers should be given to the Notarial Chamber of Ukraine, gradually taking it away from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in part of the control of the activity of notaries, as well as in part of the conduct of the examinations and the provision of the function of the Higher Qualifications Commission of the Notariate, right at the Notarial Chamber. As we did with the lawyers, it was very scary and unconvincing. There was a lot of it in that it's the right step, so I'm sure that life will show, as far as notaries are concerned, it'll be the right step, the perspective. What's relevant to the electronic notary is a very large and time-like step that will also allow both the register and the archive to be kept in electronic order and the workplace of the notary. Here, too, we certainly support this bill. There's a bunch of things to discuss. These are corresponding changes to the Civil Code, to the Family Code, to the Law on Rental of Communal and State Property. We discussed in detail on the committee, and I hope that in the second reading we will find a compromise to get the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u228	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Petr Vasilovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u229	Please pass the word to Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u230	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this House of Parliament has supported and voted on a number of quality bills to improve the role of notariat in Ukraine, I would say to the profound reform of the Institute of Notariat in Ukraine. We can't help but take credit for this reporter who was standing on the rostrum today, Mr. Igor Fries. We're also paying attention to the quality innovations that are in this notary, which will allow any citizen, regardless of the level of his income and his place of residence, to go to the notary for services. This is also the transfer of services according to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to the Notary Chamber of Supervisory Functions, which will expand the area of self-government of notariat in Ukraine will allow the protection of the professional rights of notaries in Ukraine, this is also digitization of what my colleague has just talked about and so on. At the same time, however, we pay attention to certain errors and shortcomings in the bill that must be corrected for the second reading. This is especially true of the bill that proposes that a divorce be granted without a court decision even if children are present. Sadly, this can very likely lead to violations of children’s rights in Ukraine in divorce. And this, I remind you, violates Ukraine’s commitment to international conventions: marriage cannot be broken up in this way when children are present. So we suggest that this rule be corrected for the second reading, and we ask that we support this bill now in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u232	Thank you. The word is given to Mother Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich, a faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u233	Please give the floor to a notary expert, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u234	Please, the well-deserved notary of Ukraine, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u235	Thank you, Mr. Gregory, for your high professional evaluation. Dear colleagues, but I'm not sure I'm going to be talking about notariat right now, we're, by the way, supporting this bill. You know, I have some terrible rain, I remember on this rostrum in February 2014, when we heard about the referendum in Crimea and the deadlines for carrying it from May 25th, March 31st, March 16th. And then, I'm absolutely convinced, I'm temporary, but still, the loss of control over this territory and the loss of communication with our Ukrainian citizens. Today in Moscow, Olaf Scholtz, a few days ago there was Macron. Please tell me, is it possible to vote in the State Duma if our strategic partners, as they say, haven't closed their eyes at least? We must now recognize the full responsibility of the Supreme Council and every MP for the possible consequences of this vote. We now have as a parliamentary-presidential republic an invitation to the President to discuss the situation that has arisen. Why on the day when the Chancellor of Germany is in Moscow after his visit to Ukraine, did such a vote take place? I don't want us to blame each other for actually failing Ukrainian diplomacy, which, unfortunately, is. I don't want to judge right now, I want us to find a way out of the crisis, save the possibility of communicating with 5 million of our citizens and with Donbas, who is Ukrainian. I don't want to go to 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u236	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluku, faction of the Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u237	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, in fact, this bill is extremely progressive and timely. What is more, it is not only Ukraine’s compliance with international obligations, but it is primarily to bring European conditions into line with our notaries and to serve its citizens and to provide them with quality services in the area of notaryate. Moreover, there are a number of progressive norms for the introduction of the electronic notary system, as well as the notary archive, the register of notarial actions, the workplace, the creation of systems. It's all on a European level that makes it possible to create this bill. The authority and responsibility of the notaries themselves are also expanding, and this is also vital. The Association of Lawyers of Ukraine expressed support, also supported by all or most of the notary community. The Notary Chamber also allows it to be the governing body as the self-governance of this professional sector. The "Paternity" team supports and we will definitely work on the second reading, and there is also an unfinished end to the work. I would also like to conclude by noting that this bill is the basis for reforming Ukraine's notary. Because it translates from a state notary to self-regulation of a notary profession. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u238	Thank you. I didn't mean to interrupt. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the press! I request that you do not let your activities endanger the lives and health of the national deputies, and your activities so that you do not allow God you do not fall into the hall. It's very wrong of you to act that way. Thank you. Come on, we'll discuss this separately, but I'm just asking very much of my respectable colleagues to do their work so that everyone can be as safe as possible at first, okay? Thank you. Yeah, we've fixed it, we've fixed it, friends. Dear colleagues, we'll discuss this. Look, I made a request, and I'll talk to you later. Dear colleagues, who else? Please, from the Voice of Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the adoption of this bill, because this is a new step in reforming the current notary. This bill will ensure that notarial action is available in every notarial district and will provide guarantees of notarial action for vulnerable groups. Above all, this bill is a step towards fulfilling Ukraine’s obligations to associate with the European Union. And this law can ensure that we move to a single notary that will allow us to consolidate the only status of notary in Ukraine by abandoning the system of notary sharing in public and private, as has been done in European countries. I would also like to celebrate the great role of the Notary Chamber, which has been added to the drafting of this bill. We've spent a lot of time discussing, a lot of time agreeing on positions, and I'm absolutely sure that in the second reading, some of the positions that triggered the debate on the committee will be removed, and we'll take it all in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to? We're done here. Then I ask you to take your seats, we move on to the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal from the committee, that the proposed clarifications be taken into account when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the regulation of notary activity (project registration number 5644). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:20:21]] For 335 Decision taken. Welcome, colleague. Let's move on. The next bill is 5433. 5433, this is a draft law amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System. Wait a second. I would like to propose a brief consideration of this bill. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:21:10]] For 252 Decision taken. I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Babi Roman Vejeslavovich, registered number 5433. Please, both from the committee and from the author, so please give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, your point is that the draft Law amending the Law on the Courtship and Status of Judges to ensure the phased implementation of the single judicial information and telecommunications system is reduced by the EU. In short, the essence of the bill is to allow for the introduction of not all the EU’s system in general, but in part, to the extent that it is actually ready to operate. That is, in order to benefit from the obvious advantages of the EU ETS, we do not have to wait for the full readiness of all modules, which will take more than 15, which will probably take several more years, but at least partially apply modules that interact with the courts, the justice process will be more convenient, faster and more cost-effective, and will minimize the costs of the participants. Let me remind you that the Supreme Council has already supported this approach. In the spring of last year, we passed a law to amend the procedural codes accordingly. Moreover, these changes are already being implemented successfully. A few months after the adoption of last year's bill, the Supreme Council of Justice approved the provisions on the EUSITS, on individual EUSIT modules, an announcement has been published, and the first three modules have been put into operation in all courts and are functioning successfully. To develop this approach, once it was supported by the Supreme Council, and an appropriate bill has been put forward, which we are currently considering. And why was it presented with a separate bill? Let me remind you that current legislation requires amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges to draft and consider a separate bill. In addition, it is suggested that changes be made to the standards that have taken effect but are not yet in force. They shall enter into force after the full launch of the EU ETS. It is in order that, once the necessary number of EUIT modules has been put into operation in the future, there will not be a conflict between the rules on the judiciary and the status of judges, which are general, and the special rules of the procedural codes that are already in force, and it is proposed to support this bill. Also in the text of the Courtship Act, it is proposed that the old terminology be replaced in certain standards with the name of the court’s information system. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy, and the Committee recommended to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Affairs and the Status of Judges on ensuring the phased implementation of the Single Judicial Information and Telecommunications System (Registration No. 5433) (since 27 April 2021) as a basis for the first reading. So, colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading as another step towards the digitization of court procedures, to the convenience and speed of trials, and to the economy of financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u242	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in, against, please, colleagues. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u243	Maslov Dennis, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u244	Dennis Maslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u245	My colleagues, thank you. Our "Serial of the People" faction will support this bill because it allows for a more convenient trial. This allows for the saving of budgetary expenses, costs that are not available in the courts, in order to ensure that correspondence, court decisions are sent to the parties in a convenient electronic form. Similarly, the parties will not have to travel for miles to get to know the material of the case when electronic copies of the case will be available online. Because of this bill, we make our judicial system more comfortable, gradually, in order to fully ensure the rights and guarantees of our citizens. Our political power continues to work on those bills that will make a full, fair, effective judiciary branch of power and ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens. Thank you. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u246	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u247	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Rudik Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u248	Please pass it on. Rudik Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, the history of this subject has been of many years. As early as December 1st, 18th, the Ukrainian judicial administration in the Voice of Ukraine published a publication on the phased launch of this system, and it was due to begin its operation on March 1, 19th. There hasn't been a COVID yet, there hasn't been this terrible epidemic, there haven't been so many external threats that could actually simplify the work of all the judicial authorities, but unfortunately it hasn't happened. Last April we adopted a bill that made the program, not comprehensive at the same time, but gradual, and it came into force already, thank God, in May of last year. But nothing has happened again until today. Society, let's start working so that all branches of government gradually have access to this system, so that they can also work in the judiciary and all the courts can function quickly and qualitatively, and their meetings can be held, especially when a series of pandemics makes it impossible for the judicial authorities to work on time and quality, as it should be by law, so that it is convenient not only for the judicial system but also for the citizens. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u250	Thank you, Sergey Jaroslavovich. Then we have the word "European Solidarity" faction Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u251	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, with regard to this bill, we will abstain, we have fully put our arguments before the main bill a year ago. But, you know, with all due respect, dear colleagues, do you find it appropriate today to consider in the Parliament Hall the bills that we are currently considering, not the bills that apply to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which relate to the financing of state defence orders and the financing of new arms purchases, and so on? That's why, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm addressing you right now, and I want the leaders of other factions and groups, representatives of other factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, to convene a meeting at 3 p.m. with the heads of factions and groups -- once, Parliament's leadership -- two, heads of committees from the European, Euro-Atlantic integration, international affairs, and national security and defence issues, so that we can bring together urgently the efforts to list the bills that relate to the Armed Forces and the defences of our state. Our faction has proposed such bills, and we are ready to speak with them and go out with these proposals. I know that other factions have these bills. As a result, the list of bills and your commission to the committees may be harmonized today. It seems to me that the Ukrainian Parliament, especially in the light of the events of the last days, especially in the light of the decision made by the State of Russia today, should behave in accordance with the circumstances and maintain the security of our state, not, if you will excuse me, put your head in the sand and consider, with all due respect to them, the bills that we can consider at another time. So please call this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, come on, please. Yvchenko, no. Yes, please, I see I raised Mommy's hand first. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka. After that, Oleg Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u253	Dear national MPs, every system, you know, it has to work so that, first of all, there's normalization, transparency and quick results. The only judicial information and telecommunications system, it provides these things for the court to be able to work. Why won't we support this bill? There's no eCase system that's in the U.S.A., the VACS, and the SAP. How? Does she live a separate life? This bill does not exist. What can be created and added if what works is not unified into a single system. Is it a system? It's not a system. Ladies and gentlemen, first ask the judges how to make it, then normalize it. Well, it's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u254	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, the "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u255	The law is technical enough, the law needs to be upheld. What I'd like to say is that the main purpose of this law is to ensure that individual modules and subsystems of the single judicial information and telecommunications system begin to function and that this system is gradually implemented. If we waited for full readiness to operate all the modules and subsystems in the community, we would have to wait a few years. Why isn't she ready right now, is it the developers that are working poorly, or has the judicial administration misapplied the use of the allocated funds? No, it's not. In fact, Parliament should give more attention to the financing of the judicial system. As of today, the development of such electronic systems has not been financed, nor has the other needs of the court been financed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u256	Thank you. Dear colleagues, anyone else? Who's it gonna be? Sobolen. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. This is for Yvchenk, isn't it? Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, you know, if someone wants to call it a court-martial revolution, I'm already afraid of those words, because the previous five revolutions ended with those who conducted them, now they're yelling about prejudiced justice, about political repression, about the illegality of judicial decisions. So you don't want to get into court reform again. What is the point of this bill? Everyone realized that the so-called only register didn't work because the apriors couldn't work because we didn't have a precedent. And any judge, despite the fact that there are decisions that have been passed by all the institutions, even the European Court of Human Rights, decides on his own judgment and he has nothing to do with it. He's still growing on the service ladder, he's still a judge of the Supreme Court, and he's fine. There's a second problem. How does the division of cases in the courts take place? We're already trying another way to work this out. And we understand very well that there is no total corruption in the courts. There are no totally bad judges in the courts. There are judges in the courts who are responsible for the relevant cases. And somehow these are the things that are going to be distributed to them. And then we wonder why there is no judicial reform? Why does the so - called independent system of distribution not work? Why do such cases come to these judges? So this bill is worthless, it's nothing. It makes absolutely no difference in this system. He makes absolutely no difference in the subject of regulation that he seems to have to change. Our faction will hold. We need a real change of court.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u258	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed all the issues related to this bill. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I'm proposing to the committee, honourable national deputies, prepare for the vote. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System (project registration number 5433). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:36:16]] For 275 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is Bill 6194. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding state support for cinematography in Ukraine (registration number 6194). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[14:36:57]] For 243 Dear colleagues, we have. 6194: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for cinematography in Ukraine. This bill is now being considered short. Guys, we voted on the order we're going in. Now, 6194, we voted this order. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Honorable Council System, we are now considering Bill 6194. Colleagues say there was a second issue of the bill on the Council system. So, honourable colleagues, once again, we've just voted in favour of Bill 6194 on the review of the reduced procedure. The number of votes required. I invite the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Humanities and Information Policy, Paul Mikolaiovich Suska. Paul Mikolaiovich, you're both from the authors and from the committee, so four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of part five of article 44 of the Ukrainian Act "On Committees of the Supreme Council", the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Humanities and Information Policy reviewed in part the decision of the Committee of December 1, 21 on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No. 6194). The purpose of the bill is to create appropriate legal, organizational and economic conditions for the development of the national film industry. For over a year, the bill was developed by a film and advertising subcommittee with the participation of Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the Ukrainian National Film Agency, representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy, key professional associations, and public organizations in the field of film production. Work on changes to current legislation is called for to stimulate the further development of the film industry, as well as the need to regulate a number of important practices and processes in the field. The bill proposes: the introduction of new forms of state support for cinematography; guarantees of receiving cashribytes for foreign cinematography subjects; changes in the classification of films; settlement of the issue of the creation and activities of the Council of State support for cinematography; educational activities for film art and support for other initiatives; reduction of paper turnover; and a series of other changes aimed at improving cinematography. The Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, in its conclusion, supports the bill and notes that new changes do not conflict with copyright and related legislation. The Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech expressed the view that such a legislative initiative would contribute to the revitalization of international, interstate, external economic cooperation and the improvement of Ukraine’s image on the international market as a country with a highly competitive field in cinema. The state’s foreign service supports the bill with observations and proposals on the function of revenge. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine do not deny the adoption of the bill with further drafting and taking into account the proposals made. The proposals and observations made by the ministries and authorities, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Anti-Corruption Policy and other committees of Parliament will be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. It should also be noted that the Committee has reviewed its decision and ruled out the proposed legislative provisions on the application of article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language, which were previously agreed upon with the Commissioner for the Protection of the State Language. In view of the above-mentioned committee, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for cinematography in Ukraine (registration No. 6194) on the basis of proposals and amendments to the law of the Committee's legislative initiative, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and with the rights set out in the conclusions of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Humanities and Information Policy of February 2, 2022 (Protocol No. 79), as well as in the relevant draft Regulation No. 6194/P. Dear colleagues, this law has been under way for a year, and it makes some changes that will make it even more possible to develop the market. It makes even more fair conditions for participating in competitions, and most importantly, we no longer have any objection to the use of the national language of Ukrainian. So I ask you to support me in the first reading, and we will definitely work it out to the second with your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u260	Thank Paul Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Sanchez Alexander Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u261	Please pass the word to Mikiti Poturayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u262	Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, unity, we have heard this word many times in our session hall, but somehow after the word "unity" is heard, we're starting to fight. But this is the story of this law about unity. What brings us together? We are united in a language that we all understand in our country, that no one lives, that no one is of ethnic origin, is Ukrainian, we all know it, and we can find a common language. We are united by culture, united by common cultural codes. The cultural codes are in the books, and we support them with you, and all the halls, the cultural codes are in the movies. Our committee had a substantive and meaningful discussion, but we did not fight. And Paul Mikolaiovich brought together a committee, brought together deputies from different factions to create, in fact, a quality bill that would really support the Ukrainian film, which would actually increase our international cooperation with the leading filmmakers. And I am now asking the hall, just like our committee, to demonstrate unity, my colleagues, and to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u264	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, you know, really impressed by the number of signatories and how this bill has been drafted, and certainly the faction will support the bill. Moreover, I want to tell you that Ukraine has to have an absolutely adequate response to all the bulk of the product that falls from the eastern borders and is actually a more important front of the struggle, an information front of the struggle than the military component and the component itself. Let's move on. The strength that's happening today in our Internet space, in cinemas, when movie theaters refuse to be brothers, by the way, in primetime, in the evening showing Ukrainian movies, it's absolutely shameful. And that's the thing that should work, by the way, including the film industry, the government, and the ministry should act as the first communicator to prevent film owners from putting Ukrainian movies in prime-time. And the last. I would very much like the Ukrainian cinematographers, who today, the cinematographer who is today begging for the support of the state, to be so supported. And I want to convey my wish to the colleagues who are making today, in particular, a film about how Ukrainian cadets didn't break their vows and leave the Crimea, see the licensees, we want to see it on television all over Ukraine. I wish each of them success, victory and good quality product, which will suit each counterproduct of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u266	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Ukrainian National Deputy Mamku Grigori Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u267	Please pass the word to Skorik, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u268	Please, Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u269	People's MP Skork, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm in Parliament for the second time, and I haven't seen for the first time in this room when it's about supporting our Ukrainian cinematographer. Now I'd like to ask the MPs and the citizens who are looking at us now because of the "Council" channel, which is now being spent on huge government funds. Tell me, please, what can you call the pearl of a Ukrainian cinematographer starting in 91st year? So to compare, let's say, with the movies "One Old Man" or "The Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors" or "After Two Rabbits," what were really pearls. When we're told that a good movie can't be cash, call me one of the cash movies that is now Ukrainian, which we can now call, starting in 91st year. I think we should listen to how the money is spent on our cinematographers, why we don’t have really talented films. Because the question is completely out of the question. Once upon a time, our song "Red Route," "Oh, my God, tell me," was sung by the whole Soviet Union and is now singing. And it's completely out of the question, but the fact that there's no talent, there's no talent, there's no talent, and there's no funding from the state. They're talented directors, but what the Ministry of Culture does, what our bodies are doing is completely against Ukrainian language, against Ukrainian culture, against Ukrainian cinematography. It's the continuation of the destruction of the Long Film Studio, it's the continuation of the destruction of the Odessa Film Studio, it's the total stagnation of the Ukrainian cinematographer under such good slogans that we seem to support something. I'd like to hear a report on where they're being spent.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u270	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Princess Santa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u271	Dear Mr. Head, well, I'd like to ask you briefly from the faction of "European Solidarity" to convene a third-hour council on defense laws so that tomorrow Parliament will consider them. Thank you very much. It's really important right now. Now it's about the law itself. I also want to say to previous reporters and everyone in the room, we have a lot of great movies. If they didn't shoot until the 14th year, after 50 films per year, they win the festivals, they're loved by people. Look at the movie "Cyborgs," you're sure gonna like it. And this is really a film that speaks of a powerful Ukrainian army that we need so badly. Dear friends, I remember five years ago when we passed the Film Support Act, and I had the privilege of presiding over the committee and being coauthor of this law. Indeed, we managed to do so much and gratefully to every director, every producer who is currently working in and continuing this work. This bill will be supported, and I believe it will become the law. There are new forms of government support, especially its provision, such as the grant of a film development grant, the provision of return financial assistance for the production of a film, the provision of assistance to those Western companies who want to shoot in Ukraine, supporting Ukraine and celebrating Ukraine, supported by this project by educational activities in film art. When the bill was considered by a committee with colleagues, consensus was reached. In line with the Committee’s conclusion, it is proposed that the draft law be adopted on the basis of the first reading, excluding the provision concerning changes in language legislation, language definitions in the field of cinematographers, and national films. I would like to thank both my colleague Susko and all the co-authors for this decision, and I would like to support him in his first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u272	Thank you. Please, who else wants it? Irina Miroslavna, please. Please include Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u273	Irina Konstanovic, MP's Party for the Future. Our fellow MPs will certainly support this bill, because we think that the issue of a national cinematographer is also important and necessary to support the parliamentary room, because film is a way of national identification and protection of Ukrainian culture at the world level. But at the same time, we would like the issue of financing a terrorist that concerns the whole country to stand on the agenda in the Ukrainian Parliament. We believe that while territorial communities, district councils, administrations are considering the need to finance a terrorist, we cannot stand outside. That's why we call on Parliament's leadership to make sure that all issues relating to the allocation of funds to the terrorists are in the highest priority and addressed as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to make a statement on this matter? Please, Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u275	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, because the Fatherland has voted and will always support the Ukrainian cinematographer, especially those films that are aimed at patriotic upbringing. We need to support our quality cinematographer, and we believe that the state has to invest in it. But now, under the threat of Russian aggression, we also believe that we should urgently raise salaries for our military personnel and support the terror. And considering that there are going to be extracurricular sessions in district councils all over Ukraine now, there is a proposal and I ask that we be heard by local self-government authorities in places, the budget money that is in local communities, channel for your territorial defense and for the support of those battalions that represent an area, that will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u276	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have you all made a statement on this matter? People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proposing to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, Bill No. 6194, this is a draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for cinematography in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:54:53]] For 307 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes left, we won't be able to get into the next question, but I'm bringing it in. Wait a second. I'm proposing, if there's no objection, we have Bill 5736, this is about amending some of Ukraine's legislation on settling the issue of patients being treated with compassion, this is the second reading. If there are no people who insist on taking account of their rights or amendments to support us, we can end this day by voting on this important legislative act. There will be no persons, there will be no persons? Then let us now vote to now consider this bill 5736. Dear colleagues, please vote. 5736: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of the granting of compassionate treatment to patients. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:56:07]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, no one insists on their amendments, no one will make an amendment to the confirmation? Thank you, I can move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of the granting of compassionate treatment to patients (registration number 5736). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:56:55]] For 297
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-15-m0.u277	Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. I ask the leaders of factions and groups to approach the Presidency for a moment.
