ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u1	Good evening, distinguished national deputies. In connection with the requirement of 161 national deputies of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules, we are holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council today. You are presented with a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. Please prepare for the electronic registration of the people's deputies, and I remind them that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[18:44:00]] There are 316 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a list of issues to consider today. We actually have two bills. And that's why we start with the first one. Gerasimov, please. By procedure, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u2	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, can we consider a bill on budgeting for drafters and alternative speakers for three minutes instead of two minutes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, will there be any objections? Let's vote on the shortened procedure first, and then we'll ask. Dear colleagues, because. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, we're going to go over the bill, I'm sorry, 7012 with all the alternatives. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 to increase defence spending. I'll bet you I'll consider this with a reduced procedure. [[18:45:47]] For 291 Decision taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, your proposal to give the drafters three minutes' time, I have to put this proposal to a vote. Dear colleagues, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure, but Arthur Volodymyrovich is asking the drafters to give the drafters three minutes. Please, Your Honor, vote. I have to make this offer already. [[18:46:29]] For-80 The decision is not taken. So let us move on to this procedure that has been voted on in us. I give the floor to the author of the first draft of the National MP of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. 7012, please Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u4	Good evening, dear colleagues. This bill is as simple as possible. We've had a pay-per-view review, and we're all sending all the money to the army, to the Ukrainian army, to the Mini-Defense, to the offices that will now and in the future protect and defend our land. The bill was registered on February 3. Today, February 23rd, we finally accept it. I don't care which one of the laws is passed today, there'll be my last name, Kostenka, Dusty, Getmantsev, or even Aristov. I think we don't have to do politics here today, we have to do state affairs, so whatever the names, I'm asking you to back up any of the bills that there is. The latest committee version is the best, it gives 23 billion to our army, to the border guards, to the Nazis, to the military and civilian administrations. I am very much asking you to adopt this law today as a whole, not to delay it with amendments, not to delay the discussion and give you the right to sign this law. Today is not the time we need to make politics. Please support and vote on any of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev Danil Aleksandrovitch, the author of the alternative bill. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u6	Respectful colleagues, very important, are very strict for the country of times. Let's not waste time, let's support the bill that the committee recommends, and let's be able to finance our Armed Forces in the extent that it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u7	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Zavávněvich Alexander Mihajlovich, the author of the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u8	Good evening, dear colleagues. I fully support my colleague Getmantsev's words, please support the co-worked committee. And I want to thank all the factions, all the MPs who joined the job, worked until midnight, or maybe later, and finally we have a finalized version that agrees with the Ministry of Defense, with the Cabinet of Ministers, that's taken into account, and the costs that are needed right now are absolutely necessary. So I'm going to ask you to back up the revised version by the committee. Thank you, colleagues. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u9	Heroim Slava! The word is given to the People's Deputy Costenko, the author of another alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, it is very good that we are gathered today, that the message of the day is like this when we increase the financing of the army. And I think everyone here understands that it's necessary now. And they should always be consistent. Of course, we had to do it earlier, but it's really good that we're doing it now and hopefully we'll do it in the future. But when we talk about the Armed Forces, let's talk about all the military formations we have. We have problems with funding the National Guard, and this is, I recall, another 60,000 military personnel who, in the event of a military situation, go under the command of our Commander-in-Chief, that's another 60,000 plus our 261,000 Armed Forces. Let's think about our border guards, another 40,000, and they also have underfunding even for restaffing to their full state. It's about intelligence, whose role we have today is very important, and the role that we have today. These are the eyes of our people, our President, who must make difficult administrative decisions. Therefore, we today need to accept and keep on caring for our military personnel. We support the bill and we always support the increase in funds for our army. I hope it'll be constant, and we'll be complex, consistent. Once again, let us not forget that we have not only the Armed Forces but also other military forces. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u11	Heroim Slava! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Prashenko Petra Alexiyovich, author of an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u12	Dear Ukrainians, we are urged not to waste our time. We had to adopt this bill four months ago when we were told that there was no threat. And today the enemy is standing at the gate. After the budget vote, we have to vote on a state of emergency. And at least these conditions are what we did in March of the 20th year when we found COVID, half of which wasn't spent for 60 billion, we're looking for a great time for today's pathetic 16 billion. I call for this bill to be voted on. I encourage you to do so in the first reading and in general. I urge the next day to entrust the government with finding another 40 billion who will spend on territorial defenses, give them cars, give them weapons, give them drones, give them communications, give them armies of our reserve, do whatever it takes, because tomorrow instead of roads, we need to build navels and antitank hedgehogs. I'm sure if we don't raise those funds now, it'll be our responsibility with you, not the government. So yesterday, during our meeting with Zelensky, we promised that we would create a headquarters to strengthen the defense of the state. So let's also act together as a professional, competent, patriotic headquarters for the defense of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. Thank you. We will win, the enemy will be broken. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u13	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Budgets, Yuri Juryovich Aristov, as one of the authors of the agreed Bill 7012-d. Please, Yuri Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u14	Good evening, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich, National MPs, people of Ukraine. I'm sure at this time we'll forget about the different political views and the debates and focus on the one side -- on the side of the line of delimitation, on the east side of Ukraine. I want to express my gratitude to all those who have been heroically holding up defence in eastern Ukraine for all these years, and I address the words of sincere support to the Ukrainians who have actually become hostages and today are on the other side of the line of separation. Ukraine wants peace. But we know that peace talks are more effective when the country is ready to fight back, and that's what this law is about. The Committee on Budget Affairs worked 24 hours a day, and the secretariat stayed at work at night. I thank them for their loyalty and professionalism. As a result, within the time frame that we have been given, we have been quick to work on Bill 7012 and its alternative projects. The committee’s conclusion is based on the content of these bills, conclusions, and observations. In view of a number of comments and warnings to these bills, pursuant to article 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, national members of the Committee on Budget Affairs have prepared another draft Act amending the Law on the State Budget for 2022, which is registered at number 7012-d. This bill provides for an increase of 26.5 billion dollars primarily for the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Directorate General for Intelligence of the Ministry of Defence. There is a total increase of 22.7 billion dollars to increase the security of the state, 500 million dollars to restore water supply in the Donetsk region, the district budgets of Donetské, the Lugansk region of 100 million dollars. As time passes, please support our bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u15	Heroim Slava! And from the committee, are you all right? All of you. Okay, thanks, then. Thank you, Yuri Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Look, everybody's waving no. Dear colleagues, perhaps. We're going to have another sitting. Friends, I have no right, they demand. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy, Jemilev Mustafa, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u16	Please give the floor to the deputy of Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u17	Deputy Honcharenko Alexeiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u18	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. It is imperative to vote on this decision, finally to give weapons to our military, give them more weapons, more technology, all that they deserve. But, my friends, this is something we should not stop at. It's very important now that every penny that's in the state should be sent there, by every penny, by our military. Every bracelet we give them is a negative percentage of the percentage that we're going to invade our country, that's plus one enemy that's been killed on our land. We have to do this all the time, not stop at it, but move on. We compromised, we're ready to support it now, but we have to give more, more, more! We can't just watch our partners send us guns. Thank you again: Canada, the Netherlands, Poland, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and the United Kingdom are all grateful. But also Ukraine, everyone has to feel it. I'm turning around. I've seen the business now channeling the money back to the living, to other funds. Guys, let's unite, let's do this together! We will surely win! In front, friends, Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u19	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u20	Please pass on the word Klimenko Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u21	Julia Leonidina Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, our faction will certainly support this bill as an allocation of funds for the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the allocation of funds not only for the Armed Forces, but also for the structure of the IMF, for the National Guard, and for the border guards, because on some lines, on some of our borders there are only National Guards, as well as border guards, and they will take the first blow on themselves. Therefore, all of them should receive a salary, an additional amount, to be paid so that their families in the rear can live and provide for themselves while their husbands protect them. And women protect our Fatherland. So, of course, we will support it. Unfortunately, this time we're not giving out as much as we need to. But I hope the following bills will increase the financing of the army, the U.S.S.A., and we will also increase the money supply further. Since we are well aware that war will not end tomorrow, we need to keep our soldiers in good shape, with good pay, so that their families and their children do not worry about anything. That's why money is the first thing. This bill is going to give a plus-minus supplement to the salary between three and five thousand dollars, but unfortunately, that's too little to do. That's why we support the allocation of an additional 30 billion dollars for money, for ammunition, for weapons and for whatever it takes and will be decided by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We support and work on other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u23	The word is given to John Ivanovich Krulk, the "Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u24	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Under conditions where Ukraine has more than 150 thousand troops of aggressors on its borders – the Russian Federation – in conditions where Ukraine is to defend its borders and the Armed Forces must feel that the Ukrainian Parliament is doing everything possible to make them feel secure, other issues now for the Supreme Council than the support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are not and cannot be. This is our primary and key task. Our soldiers are performing their functions on an advanced, they're on the rise, they understand they're going to protect Ukraine, defend our territorial integrity and independence. Our job is to show them that we're with them and support them. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will vote in favour of a bill that has been drafted by a committee that provides for an additional 22.7 billion dollars for the security and defence of Ukraine. It's for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it's for the U.S. Department of Defense, it's for the National Guard, it's for all those protecting Ukraine today. And I'd like to thank the Fatherland faction for every Ukrainian soldier with a gun in his hand so that the enemy doesn't cross our territory. And one more thing. I believe that in these days of Russian aggression, we, as a parliament, have to work constantly. But everything we have to do, all our efforts must be directed at one thing -- to make the enemy understand: an effective parliament, power in Ukraine is effective, the Armed Forces will protect Ukraine, and we will not give the enemy any chance to feel in Ukraine as a host. He's not even here at the reception -- he's the enemy here, and he needs to feel it. And the law has to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u25	The word is given to Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u26	Dear Ukrainians! Ukraine and Ukraine never wanted war and never intended to take over foreign lands. I also stressed this thesis yesterday at the President's meeting and said that if there is a chance and at least one chance to continue negotiations and go to war, I am prepared by Parliament to be in this group of negotiators, to go and meet with the Parliament of Russia, with the leadership of Russia, just to stop this war. But whatever the case, Ukraine must defend itself if we have something taken away, and the more they take our land and seek to take our statehood. We support a bill that today adds funds to our army and provides an opportunity to further secure the financing of our Armed Forces, to enable us to raise wages for our people who are protecting our peace today. And, more than that, we insist, yesterday we have spoken and held a huge number of consultations with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, to clear out all lines that don't matter today if there are other troops here, and to do everything possible to transfer the state budget to the maximum extent possible for military and modern military needs. Then we'll draw conclusions. A lot of people today are saying that we need to protect, defend, raise budgets, and there's a question for these people: what have they been doing for the last five to eight years? But this does not mean that we today have to quarrel with one another. We are united in a single coalition to protect our country, and I am willing to set up my shoulders, look for funds, and go to negotiations, whether anyone likes it or not. Let's look for, support this budget and expect the Ministry of Finance to review the budget in general, so that the nearest day or two can find the funds and finance the needs of our army: weapons, ammunition, reserves, territorial defense and all that is necessary today for Ukraine to stand and be modern, European, and beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u27	Next, please, Aresonkov, then Coltunovich. Aresonkov, Koltunovich, is there anyone else to play?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, our group will vote in favour of Bill 7012-d, it's really quality and professionally worked, and we're solving individual issues at this stage. But I'm calling your attention to how difficult and difficult this workday has been today, because financial issues have been agreed upon: where do you get the funds from which to increase funding for both the Ukrainian Armed Forces and territorial defence? And now the very important tasks are the following, and our task with you is to work on the economic block. We have to do everything we can to secure the budget for the coming months, because over a period of time, we're going to be facing again the issue of supporting our Armed Forces. So it's economic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u29	Please, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich and Venislavski Feder Volodymyrovich have yet to express their wish, and at this point, we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u30	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. Very short. We will support this bill. But, look, there's not only defense, there's an option here, for example, going to the Ministry of Finance, increasing public debt service costs, plus 3 billion dollars. One. Of course, we're going to support the option that applies to the grant to provide permanent water supply to the Donetsk region, that's plus half a billion dollars. What, for example, bothers me? When sources of coverage are provided, 9 billion dollars of overcoming money are given in January, plus 3 billion dollars of foreign aid -- in total 12. When we sum up the positions that are here: The Ministry of Defense is 6, the Ministry of Defense is 16, the Minfin is 3, half a million and so on is 26. So you don't have arithmetic, and that's what you're going to do when you're preparing for budget changes. 26 and 12 are great things. We support this bill, of course. But once again, it's not supposed to be in the economic and financial indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u31	Please, the final word, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, "Serve of the People." Then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u32	Feder Venislavsky, "Serve of the People" party. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have done a great deal with you in this convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to strengthen the security of our country. We have adopted such important laws that have not been enacted for decades, such as the Ukrainian Defence Act, the Ukrainian Defense of Procurement Act, the Ukrainian Intelligence Act, the Ukrainian National Defense of Defence Act, and a number of other laws that significantly increase the ability of our Armed Forces, the security sector and the defence sector in general. Of course, the political party "The Servant of the People" will support a bill aimed at increasing the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is the systemic and consistent position of our political party. We have already supported a bill that allows the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to increase funding for the security and defence sector very quickly today. And we also support this law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u33	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please prepare to make a decision. The committee's proposal is to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments, but we vote in turn. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. Is that what you're doing? Bill 7012-d, this is about increasing defense spending. Ready, Your Honor? People's deputies, please vote. [[19:09:06]] For 343 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, I'm making a second offer. Adopting a bill of registration number 7012-d, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal rights, is a bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? In general, with the necessary technical remedies. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[19:09:57]] For 345. Decision taken. Show the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be given immediate authority to sign a bill adopted by the Supreme Council for registration number 7012-d. If there is no objection, I will put this motion to the vote. People's deputies, please. [[19:10:38]] For 344 Decision taken. The head of the Supreme Council will immediately sign and send Bill 7012 to the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. The law is passed in general and will be signed without delay. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the organisation of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the conditions of emergency and/or martial law (project registration number 7105). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[19:11:24]] For 285 Decision taken. I invite the reporter, Ukrainian national deputy Arahami David Georgiyovich. Please, David Georgiyovich. David Georgievich, please. You report it to me, after this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u36	Comrades, good afternoon. You know how difficult things are in the country right now. The president has assembled an RNB, and they have identified themselves throughout the country to introduce a state of emergency. We had a meeting among the heads of factions. We have objective comments and comments on this state of emergency. But given the situation, given the urgency now, I propose that the President's decision be confirmed as quickly as possible. And all these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u37	David Georgievich!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u38	I know I understand the verdict. Vote this decree now. And then all of us who have disputes about this are going to put it in the working order. Because now the country is waiting for us to make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u39	Thank you, David Georgievich. The word is given to the co-reporter of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u40	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee has considered a draft Decision on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the conditions of emergency and/or martial law (registration number 7105) which proposes that Parliament's work be carried out in plenary, committee, parliamentary factions, groups during the extraordinary and/or military state of affairs. However, taking into account certain features, namely, the date on which, according to the calendar plan for holding plenary sessions, such plenary meetings are not scheduled, such plenary meetings are held at the suggestion of the Conciliation Council, which determines the date, time and duration of plenary meetings, and the work of the national deputies with the electorate is carried out at the direction of the Chief of the Supreme Council on deployment; meetings of committees, temporary special committees shall be convened by the heads of these committees or committees for the initiative of most relevant committees of Parliament and shall be held immediately to ensure that the agenda of the plenary is addressed. The Committee also noted that, in accordance with the provisions of part one of article 12 of the Law on the legal regime of states of emergency in Ukraine or in certain areas of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to continue its session or plenary work throughout the period of emergency, and that when a state of war is introduced in Ukraine or in certain parts of Ukraine, Parliament is working in a session regime provided for in article 12 of the Law on the Legal regime of the State of War. Therefore, in summary, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of the draft decree and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m1.u41	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss this? Can we vote? Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt the entire draft Decision on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of an emergency and/or martial law (project registration number 7105). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[19:15:28]] For 342 Decision taken. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, we have. We are about to conclude this next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but after that, I will ask the heads of factions and groups to meet with me, because we need to prove one more question, and we will have another meeting today that will address the approval of the President's Emergency Order. I'm going to ask the national MPs not to split up, today the whole country is not splitting up, everyone has to be grouped, in this room. Once we've completed all the necessary procedures for bringing this issue to the hall, we'll meet here immediately. I ask all the heads of factions and groups to meet me in my office right now. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think at least 40 minutes, at least.
