ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we are continuing the plenary session today. I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a plenary session continuously according to the decisions we have adopted: on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on February 24, 2022." Ladies and gentlemen, it is a good tradition to begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Anyone who doesn't make it, come here, you'll be singing an anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past 20 weeks, the enemy has waged an unprincipled conquest war in the territory of our country, defaming numerous international legal norms. Ukrainian soldiers continue to demonstrate their example of civic courage and self - devotion throughout the world, firmly defending national sovereignty and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. I ask all in attendance to honor the moment of silence of the memory of the soldiers who have fallen into battle for Ukraine and the peaceful citizens who died as a result of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with a nice one. Today is the birthday of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Valery Fedorovich Zalužno. Welcome, Valery Fedorovich. [[Applause]] We sincerely wish him the fullness of the constituency of strong health, strength, and victory over our enemies as soon as possible. Thank you, colleagues. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, today at the Conciliation Council, we have agreed that before we begin our consideration of the agenda, we will traditionally give up up to three minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. So I ask the factions and groups to sign up. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, a faction of the political party "Golos". Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u3	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. I can't help but welcome from this rostrum, first of all, with the brilliant operation of our boy soldiers who installed the State Flag on Snake Island yesterday. It's an operation for those who were, knew and were around, supported, knows the price of the flag on the island, how many lives were laid in order to establish this flag, our flag. And I welcome them. And not only do I want the majors there to have our flag, but there is also a place to remember those who gave their lives for this island. But, on the contrary, returning from the expeditions, I would like to draw your attention, my distinguished fellow national deputies, to another. We ask and appeal to the whole world with incredible requests for support, for condemnation, for sanctions, for isolation. But it's very easy for us to look at those colleagues who are sitting next to us and who, unfortunately, are not currently in charge of the Criminal Code. I ask you to pay attention today to the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the Presidency of the Supreme Council until at least four names, as well as to verify all those who have left the State before February 24th, and to date are not in the territory of Ukraine and are not performing their duties. I ask and note the following names. Alexia Kovalova, who is a collaborator from Hersonianism and is so-called a representative of the government of the Russian Federation on the occupied part of Hersonian and its district. Alexander Ponomaryov, member of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure Eugene Shevchenko is a person who has always traveled to the Republic of Belarus, from which we are still waiting for an upsurge and invasion. And so is Vlorina, who is not currently known where it is and is outside of Ukraine. Rabbinic, including. Dear colleagues, we ask the world to pay attention to betrayal. I ask that, as a minimum of these people, as well as those who have not returned to Ukraine today or whose materials are still dead in the prosecutor's office or the Security Service, criminal cases have been violated and their mandates have been abandoned as soon as possible outside this room and they have not been allowed. I think it's a great shame when collaborators have the right to enter this room and, more importantly, vote, and have access to state affairs and state secrets. So, Mr. Speaker, you have a great responsibility. We await either the verdicts of the court, or the evidence of their death, or their statements of resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u4	Is that what I'm supposed to do? Thank you. Samantha Anatolyevna, tomorrow we bring what we can. The Bureau is making a draft decree on the release of one of those whom you said, from the committees at large, and we will continue to look for a legitimate way of doing this. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the national deputy of Ukraine, Petra Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to welcome once again from this parliamentary rostrum two persons, two people, two great people, who have made a great contribution to the construction and protection of our state. The first is Valérie Handsome. And I am confident that by our efforts, united and united, we will win Ukraine’s victory. And the second is Boris Johnson, who is also a friend of mine, a friend of Ukraine, and demonstrated what Ukraine is waiting for from the world and how to design an anti-putin coalition. I would also like to pay attention to volunteering. This is our nation’s powerful resource, which unites Ukraine from east to west, and 80 percent of the Ukrainians have joined, even while abroad. And when the money of ordinary Ukrainians is exhausted today, when businesses have spent everything they had, up to 4 percent of their profits, we people's deputies now have to adopt the necessary bills that will allow us to solve at least two issues. Question one. When we provide charitable assistance to the families of the dead, we cannot tax them with VAT and other taxes, we have others to tax. When we provide help to the wounded, we cannot tax them with VAT and other taxes. We have introduced Bill 7528, and we ask that we put it to the vote and vote in the first reading and in general in order to solve this problem as soon as possible. And the second bill is Bill 7506-1. Just as we've taken down the restrictions on the concentration of COVID funds, so we need to remove the restrictions now so that charity aid, which goes exclusively to charities and is aimed exclusively at supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces, is also not burdened by the taxation of patriotism. I firmly believe that these are our obligations, that these are the laws that are paramount, and that the hall will support them. And now we've been able to start active volunteering. I want to welcome everyone, because many of these rooms have joined in supporting the supply of armor. This is the first armored machine that non-state structures put in place. Thank you for that. And this is a gift to the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u6	Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Ukrainian Society! First of all, from our "For the Future" MP group, we want to welcome all of you today to the International Family Day. Take care of your family, take care of your sons and daughters. Spend every day you spend together. Today’s better sons and daughters on the front prove that we, Ukrainians, have taken place as a large family and as a great nation. Likewise today, we would like to welcome the birthday of our Chief of Staff, Valery Fedorovich Handicraft. And to wish in his person the superior leadership, the military leadership of the state of clear military planning and guarding the soldiers, not to put them at risk once, in fact, so that they don't get hit by the enemy. I believe that today the international support of the State is unprecedented. And in this context, I think that Ukrainian society today understands that this international support is not only shrinking, it is constantly expanding, with every day, regardless of what democratic changes are taking place in a European state or another, I mean the resignation of Prime Minister Johnson. Because despite Johnson’s departure, Britain’s international support will not diminish, and it should grow. Although, as Winston Churchill said, democracy is the worst form of government, but if not all other forms of government. We are building a democratic society despite the war that is taking place in our country, and we obviously want to win this war. President Putin's statement yesterday that the war in Ukraine may be until the last Ukrainian is a genocide that we see happening from the first day of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine by an aggressor. This is actually Putin's application as a showdown with duty in The Hague or another international tribunal. And I think that the international community should pay close attention to that. Today, Ukraine faces a number of additional challenges that it needs to face: this is an energy situation that we must be ready for, and we are preparing for it; this is a sociable campaign that we cannot miss in 2023, and the government has to think about how to further support the agrarians today in order to keep the agrarian complex blue; it's an educational campaign; it's a financial situation in the state and so on. And the Ukrainian Parliament should slowly move on to more full-time work, to more systematic work in the hall, in the session hall, in the Committees of the Supreme Council, to work on those bills that will speed up winning today on our front. More than ever, it is important not to lose touch with the occupied territories, any Ukrainian who today feels pressure and repression from the aggressor. Let us keep them in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, instead of Plačko's, Dmitrik, the "Delivery of Ukraine" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! I warmly welcome all of us to the successful holding of the Lugano conference. As a state, we have clearly outlined a plan for the restoration of Ukraine. We were supported by more than 40 countries and 20 international organizations. There was a powerful signal that Ukraine would be rebuilt at the fastest rate. And we sincerely believe that we can accumulate the necessary resources for the postwar revival of our country. Don't be happy with the illusions. Only us, the Ukrainian people, can be the guarantors of this plan because we live in a lying world. Each country is struggling not only with geopolitical challenges but also with internal problems. Political turbulence in our individual allies and partners makes us ever stronger together, and we are doing so successfully. The restoration of Ukraine begins with visas: from the raising of the Ukrainian flag on the Ukrainian island of Snakes, from our prayers for the Ukrainian army. Each emotional impulse must be strengthened by daily and routine work on reforms. And Parliament is acting on the right key. Just think about the laws on building information modelling, about reforming the employment services that we have ahead of us, or the industrial parks that we've adopted recently. This is all part of Ukraine’s restoration plan. So I urge you not to lose speed, but just to step up our work. Dear colleagues, we are proud to see the flag of the European Union in our Parliament. We do not stop on the path of European integration and our movement towards full membership in the EU. For example, today we have to consider and adopt a personal data protection bill. This is a very important initiative that every Ukrainian citizen and country’s business will benefit from. Our legislation will be one step closer to harmonization with the regulatory framework of the European Union. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" stresses that our team is a reliable support for major reforms. Together, we will restore Ukrainian potential, ensure the modernization of all spheres of life. Ukraine will be synonymous with wealth, efficiency, and justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u10	Thank you. Please give the word to the Ukrainian national deputy of the Western Jury. Please, Papiev Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Allow me to share with you the observations of the national deputies of Ukraine. In my opinion, and I think that you will support me, that there is no television broadcast in the Ukrainian Supreme Council Hall for today, and it contributes, surprisingly, to the fact that Ukraine's national deputies speak more in shape and content, and the subject of their activities: by law-making work, by the laws that must be adopted in order for Ukraine's victory to be irreversible. And in our view, our "Platform for Life and Peace" group, especially in the context of Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine, is getting into the issue of social protection. And why was I talking about television? Because its absence allows us today to discuss issues that are important for Ukraine’s future, which may not be raised in public space. For example, to this day as a person who has done demographics, my scientific work has to do with demographics, I see today that the demographic situation in Ukraine is the worst in all parts of the world. And when we have a social protection issue based on a solidarity system that predicts that working citizens provide non-working citizens and pensioners, and people with disabilities with the money they need for people to have a decent existence, it goes like this today: in 2007, we have the ratio of pensioners to pensioners: to one pensioner there were 1.4 workers, to one pensioner last year we have 0.8 working for one pensioner. Now, given the data that our citizens have on their way out of Ukraine, for today there are two pensioners. What does that say? What we're going to need in the future is for the employee to account for the social insurance funds already for two pensions that should not be below the minimum of living. That is why we need to adopt laws for the future of Ukraine today. I mean, we need to minimize the cost of social insurance funds today, we need to look at the problem issues of refugees, both internally displaced persons and refugees that have gone beyond Ukraine today. My survey says that if Ukraine does not make attractive conditions, about 70 percent of those who have left do not intend to return to Ukraine, namely, those who have left at the most productive age and women at the most reproductive age. That is why, knowing these challenges, we need to respond adequately to our own today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u12	Thank you. Now. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. After that, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, and after that, we move on to the agenda. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich. After that, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u13	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, Ukraine has long been the main theme of all world news, but this week in Europe, it was not only about the war in our country but also about the future reconstruction of our nation. This topic became central to the forum in the Swiss Lugano, which brought together European politicians, leaders of international organizations and leading economists. There is a firm intention of donor states to help rebuild Ukraine, and the main thing is that these countries are confident of our victory. Ukraine’s recovery plan involves modernizing many of our nation’s directions. Moreover, it clearly sees the prospect of Ukraine’s economic integration into European society. But it is not enough to believe in victory, and it must be approached by all means. Our international partners must have a clear and complete understanding: sanctions pressure should not stop for one minute. The Russian economy is rockets in peaceful Ukrainian cities and thousands of innocent Ukrainians killed. And in recent times, unfortunately, these are tragic examples of Cremenchuk, Mikolayev, Kharkiv, Restoration, and many other population sites of our nation. That's why we're waiting for quick agreement and a seventh batch of sanctions against the terrorist state. By the way, the official recognition of the RF by the State-sponsor of terrorism, particularly by the United States of America, would help to significantly deepen the sanctions gap for the Russian economy. So we welcome the adoption by the U.S. Senate Committee of an appropriate resolution, and we hope that this process will come to a logical conclusion. One source for the reconstruction of Ukraine was the European leaders who called it frozen and confiscated RF assets in EU countries. So we are waiting for the European Union to develop legislation as soon as possible, which would allow it to do so in the shortest possible time. And it's very important not to delay this process because Russian missiles destroy our infrastructure every day. Above all, in order to restore Ukraine, our European partners need to understand clearly that we have a full - scale war. And it's a war, not a crisis, not a conflict, which is said quite often in foreign media. Because it is Ukraine in the center of Europe that is at war with a nation that is trying to intimidate the whole world. At the same time, we are protecting not only our independence and territorial integrity but also the democratic values of the whole world. And we would like our international partners to understand the scale of what is actually happening in our country and the scale of future reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, ten days ago, we introduced the flag of the European Union into this session hall as a sign of Ukraine's becoming a candidate for accession to the European Union. We have many tasks in front of the state, and Parliament in particular, related to this high status of candidate. We need to adopt laws on those issues that President Ursula von der Ljaen, President of the European Commission, told Parliament. In particular, there is a need to overcome corruption, to make changes to mediation and to restore freedom of speech, to adopt other laws that will start a real economy, and to do so, Parliament needs to start working in a planned, normal regime. We need to stop our chaotic congregations, which are not always prepared, which lead to the fact that when we adopt one law in two weeks, we either cancel it or make substantial changes. This work of the chaotic parliament leads to the day - to - day appearance and the extension of corruption laws. Parliament is unable to respond to what we consider to be corruption, by the executive branch, in particular the situation of the conversion of the forest sector and the attempt of corporateism, the reading of privatization, the forests of Ukraine, and the question of NAC "The Naftogaz of Ukraine". Parliament should therefore start working in a planned, state-of-the-art regime to improve the efficiency of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, allowing this work to be planned and more effective. Of course, such a planned work cannot take place without a change in the visibility of the Supreme Council, without the admission of journalists to the watchtowers, without the ability of deputies to communicate their position to their colleagues and to Ukrainian society. Of course, all these positions should be pro - Ukrainian, and they are pro - Ukrainian, because Parliament has reacted harshly to the situation of collaborators today. I therefore call on the leadership of the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian Parliament to return to the normal, planned work of the Ukrainian Parliament, which will benefit not only Parliament but also the Ukrainian State as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Let's get to work. In harmony with article 28. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I feel like I'm in the Bessarab market. Please take your seats and let's get to work. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote by pressing the "yes" button. We're working with a sensory button, I won't remind you of the rules, you all know. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. Friends, the green button, I repeated it five times. [[12:29:38]] For-286 Thank you. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, are given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, as we always do: first we vote on those issues that are not discussed, then we vote on those issues that are discussed. Do we have a deal? Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to question 7529. This is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Novinski V.V. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to accept this decision in general, 7529. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:30:58]] For 295 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Orders adopted in general. Next bill. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Integration of Ukraine into the Convention on jurisdiction, the right applicable, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and child protection (registration No. 6145). I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Accession of Ukraine to the Convention on jurisdiction, the right applicable, recognition, execution and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and child protection (registration No. 6145). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:06]] For 294 Decision taken. Next. Project Rule 7477. Draft Decision on the suspension of award procedures for the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of education in 2022. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to include in the agenda the Bill of Order 7477. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:43]] For 290 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal that takes into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Decision to suspend the award procedures for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's education awards in 2022 (registration number 7477). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:33:17]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next. This is a draft law amending article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality concerning the enforcement of orders in the form of a cessation of an order in a state of war or in a state of war (register No. 7292). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:33:55]] For 295 Decision taken. I propose that the draft Law amending article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice should be adopted on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:34:34]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The law is passed in general. Next. This is a draft Decision approving the National Information Programme for 2022-2024 (Registration No. 7298). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:09]] For 276 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision approving the tasks of the National Information Programme for 2022-2024 (registration number 7298), taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:40]] For 279 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next 7378. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Interests of Reporting Subjects and Other Instruments during the War or State of War to exempt persons from the responsibility for violating the time limits for publishing financial statements during the war or state of war. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to include this issue in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:36:21]] For 281 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a basis, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Interests of the Accountants and Other Instruments during the War or State of War, on the release from liability for breach of the time limits for the publication of financial statements during the war or state of war (project No. 7378). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:36:58]] For 281 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7378. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:24]] For 261 Decision taken. Next up, colleagues. The two Bills 7414, 7414-1 were also agreed without discussion. It's a bill amending the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act to settle long-term debt for periods of military, state of emergency. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:59]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. We agreed without discussion, just as a matter of fact, didn't we? Wait a second. One second. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt Bill 7414 as a basis. It's a bill amending the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act to settle long-term debt for periods of military, state of emergency. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:52]] For 281 Decision taken. And, dear fellows, I'm making a proposal to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7414, which we've just adopted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:21]] For 266 Decision taken. Let's move on. The next bill, 7510, was agreed without discussion. But we're just putting it in the order of the day session. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information of Ukraine to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of active counter-aggression in cyberspace. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. 7510. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:40:07]] For 297 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that the bill be defined as urgent and that it should be reduced by half by the time of the introduction of alternative bills for Bill 7510. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:40:35]] For 273 Decision taken. The next bill is not discussed either. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Parental Decisions on the Temporary Exploitation of Children outside Ukraine (Registration No. 6146). I offer to accept as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116. Bill 6146. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:41:17]] For 301 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6146. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:41:44]] For 267 Decision taken. Let's move on. The next bill is 6383. We also agreed on it without discussion. This is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of building information modelling (VM technology) at all stages of the life cycle of objects and the scientific and technical accompanying of objects, and improving the procedure for the examination of objects adopted in accordance with the law of order. I propose that this bill be adopted, 6383, on the basis of a revision in accordance with article 16, part one of the Rules. Please vote. [[12:42:43]] For 287 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6383. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:11]] For 249 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill is also uncontested, 7396. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the functioning of the Automated Information System for Education Management. I propose to include 7396 in the agenda of the day session and ask the national deputies to vote. [[12:43:50]] For 267 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the functioning of the Automated Information System for Education Management (the registration number of Bill 7396). [[12:44:20]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've voted as the basis just now, haven't we? Yes, I'm sorry, we have another bill after that, 7396. I would like to propose to cut in half the supply and amendment deadlines for the preparation of the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:00]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. Then we have two bills: 6405, 6405-1. We made a deal, too. Oh, the procedure. Yes, of course, one minute, please, Klimpush-Cincadze. We continue to vote without discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that once again we are simply disrespecting our obligations under our already candidate status and our progress towards the European Union membership talks. I insist, as head of the Committee on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union without the conclusions of the Committee on Integration into the EU, that we simply have no right to consider our obligations in European integration. Moreover, we will insist that we make changes to the Rules and have similar conclusions for the second reading, as all candidate countries have done, giving additional rights to the committee of profile. Thank you. And I'm going to count on it not to happen again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt Bill 6405 as a basis. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to develop general aviation, adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation in the field of civil aviation, establishing additional mechanisms for effective control of aviation security and deregulation in the field of civil aviation. So this is the base of 6405. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:05]] For 266 Decision taken. And, dear fellows, I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6405. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:32]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next project without discussion (6003) This is a bill amending some laws of Ukraine to improve validation mechanisms for end-user owners and the ownership structure of legal persons. I'm proposing to adopt this bill as a basis, 6003, as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:11]] For 261 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6003. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:37]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, no discussion is over. But I'm asking you to be there because it's still a very important European integration law. And we start with the first law -- 5628. This is a draft Personal Data Protection Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:49:13]] For 251 Decision taken. We agreed: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Right? Please ask the people's deputies, factions and groups to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u19	I'm behind this bill, and there's nothing more to add. So let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u20	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich, for your constructive state position. Let's move on. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u21	Mr. Head, I'd like to give Alexia a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u22	Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u23	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, an important bill, an important subject, but I have a question. Look, we're finally speaking for the first time in this rostrum, where there's also the flag of the European Union and the flag of the European Union in the hall. And I'm proud of it. This is the only right way for our nation, there is no doubt about it. Guys, let's not just put the flags on, but let's do it. Why is this bill, which is extremely important for the European Union, which is very carefully prescribed, this subject of personal data protection is carefully laid down in European legislation, why do we not see the conclusion of the European Integration Committee? Why didn't we base this bill on European Union legislation? Guys, you don't have to invent a bike, you have to do that. We've chosen a goal -- we want to become members of the European Union -- so let's do it the way they do it. Let's not invent anything, let's do it everywhere. Let's let this flag of the European Union become our focal point in the fight against corruption, in the fight against the bard, which, unfortunately, can be seen today, in the protection of human rights, which are extremely important to us, in the construction of a democratic country with the rule of law, to fully respond to each letter of our candidate status. It's the only thing that will enable us to then become, not a candidate, but a member of the European Union. Friends, let's move like this on these European rivers in every sense of the word. So, my friends, I'm asking you to follow European standards and move only in this way. The future of Ukraine in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Protecting the personal data of our citizens is one of the main constitutional obligations of the state towards Ukrainian citizens. And it's perfectly logical that this bill will be supported by our group. And today, we have appropriate laws that apply to the constitutional rights of our citizens, to consider through the prism of a probable, although in the near past and unlikely, accession to the European Union. It is therefore perfectly logical that when preparing this bill for second reading, we should take into account the traditions that are now being used to protect the personal data of our citizens in the European Union. Dear colleagues, we have a unique chance, and I have heard it in my own ears, talking to the Heads of State of the European Union, that Ukraine can become a member of the European Union not after 10-15 years, but after 6-18 months. And we have to pay the utmost attention to these bills. I say again, what was impossible, in my mind, five to six months ago, is now becoming a reality. We must not lose it; we must unite for the sake of the reality of our country’s presence in the European family. It is worth our unity and our responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u26	Please, Eutusek. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. It's a very important European integration law. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Indeed, an important law that should normally be adopted with a view to establishing candidate status and on the way to full membership in the European Union. The only thing I want to remind you is that the European Union is about human rights, and the possibility of non-judicial information being received by individuals or legal persons from appropriate telecommunications providers is clearly violating human rights. So I would really like to say that the law is important, but it's going to have to be worked on a little bit, it's going to have to be amended to bring it into line with the requirements of the European Union. And I fully support colleagues who say that the position of the Committee on European Integration should be taken into account. So when I go back to my previous speech, I can point out that the transition to the normal work of the Supreme Council will lead to a reduction in the bills that will contain such, well-called, will contain such, absolutely, not entirely European, so to speak softly, things. So once again, I would like to emphasize that we need to go back to the normal work of the Supreme Council, not in an aural way, but in a planned mode, to the normal work of the Supreme Council Committees, not in an aural way, but in a normal way, perhaps from an offline regime that allows a little bit of time for the national MPs to work. Online mode allows you to go offline and continue working. Of course, journalists should also be allowed to see discussions in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. The only thing I'm very much urging you to do is support this bill, it's actually an implementation of the GDPR European standard into Ukrainian legislation, which is very important today. Well, as for the conclusions of the European Committee, I completely agree, the only thing that's been on the bill for a year. I think you can come to any conclusions in a year. So please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it? They just said no, I'm sorry. Then if there is. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, okay. No, I can't. I didn't name anyone. Okay, well, there's a good conclusion. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt draft Law 5628 as a basis for the protection of personal data. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:02]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Great. Dear colleagues, then I bet. Please take your seats, your seats according to the plates where your name is written, it's no different. Dear colleagues, I'm making a proposal -- this bill again first. I'll point it out again. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:52]] For 260 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't even know how to address you after this as a performance. The culture of communication simply does not allow. Let's move on, let's skip. Everyone has a conscience. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next one. This is Bill 6067. This is a draft law amending some legislation on employment reform, social insurance for unemployment, promoting productive employment, including youth, and introducing new active labour market programmes, 6067 and 6067-1. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:59:53]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-against, right? Please sign in: two in, two in. Please, Ion's Maria, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u29	Please pass the word to the Prince. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u30	Princess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u31	You know, colleagues, sometimes I feel like we don't take care of our citizens during the war, but we do the opposite. So we're thinking about how to limit the way out of the area, and to that we're stimulating the relocation of businesses, we're saying that the number of unemployed has increased, and we're reducing the aid to the unemployed. This project suggests a significant deterioration in the level of social protection for the unemployed. In times of acute war, many are unemployed. The project proposes that people who have lost their jobs be struck even more by the loss of their legal guarantees. It foresees a substantial change in the conditions of aid for the worsening: the insurance system for receiving this assistance is increasing, the insurance internship scale is increasing to determine the size of unemployment assistance, it is decreasing by 5 to 10 percent, it is decreasing the unemployment payout period, and it is unfortunately a lot in this project. The deterioration in the level of social protection for the unemployed today, in the context of war, when many citizens have lost their jobs and need material assistance, when job market offers have been cut short, unemployment relief has been reduced, the duration of the job can essentially put citizens who want, but who cannot work, in fact, in the condition of survival. Exclusion of the quotas currently set for employers for the employment of persons with additional guarantees to promote employment are young people who have 10 years to retire. The availability of quotas has opened up additional employment opportunities for young specialists. By cancelling them, we do not offer anything in return. We're reducing other payments. All of these things make the level of social protection worse. An absolutely irresponsible law, his logic is clear. Maybe we'll work on it at least for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u32	The word is given to the Cultenka Artem Valeriovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u34	Trelyak's Galina Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor. The bill is going to the other side rather than what the previous reporter said. The bill aims to promote the employment of long-term unemployed by providing compensation to employers for their employment. The bill introduces the provision of financial assistance for the start-up of entrepreneurial activities. The bill is aimed at reforming the social insurance system for unemployment. I remind everyone that social insurance is always balanced by the size of the premium. And after the insurance contribution, the only social insurance contribution was reduced, and social obligations were not brought into line. At present, in our difficult, terrible times, we need to give and place our shoulders not only to the unemployed but also to the employer to open jobs. The Cabinet of Ministers has adopted the concept of reforming the unemployment system, and we must put it into this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u36	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u37	Thank you, sir. Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u38	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u39	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I'd like to point out that there's been a lot of talk about the negative or the flaws in this bill. This is also about the length of the insurance period to calculate the aid, and a number of other points. But there are, on the other hand, positive points that apply to the draft law. This is what I would like to say that, in fact, compensation is granted to an employer who has employed an unemployed person for at least two years, the size of the EU. There is also compensation for an employer who has not less than a year’s work and who has no more than five years left, with 50 percent of the actual cost of work. And a number of other points, which are, in principle, positive on the one hand. But once again, it doesn't decrease in any way and it doesn't cancel out those negative moments, so we insist that they be counted between the first and the second readings. That's the first one. The other one. Well, it's fundamental, so I took the word for it. The issue of employment in the country cannot be resolved by this law, and it cannot be resolved by overcoming unemployment. Between the 19th and 21st years, we've got the number of unemployed growing from 7 to 10 percent. So, in our view, we need to first implement such an economic policy that will create appropriate jobs, increase payments to appropriate funds, in order to support just the real sector of the economy. Without this, it is not possible to stimulate employment in the country without the realization of a strong new economic, industrial policy, not an agrarian or raw material, but an industrial and high-tech industry. Because there is the largest concentration of jobs, it creates the largest number of jobs that are still paid by the same taxes and congregations. So by properly implementing fiscal, budgetary, regulatory, customs policy, in general and monetary policy, we will only then be able to implement a plan to increase employment within the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who? Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please. And then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u41	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, the chairman, the honorable presidency, the honourable national deputies! I agree with my colleagues that there are positive norms in this bill, but there are also warnings and shortcomings that prevent us from voting in the first reading. The "Paternity" team will submit the changes to the second reading. If they are counted, then we will uphold this legislative norm. But what is now depriving a young expert of his first job is a flaw that should be addressed to everyone, including who plans to vote in favour. Next. If it declines, more faithfully, the standard that unemployment benefits are paid over the course of two years is reversed, and the standards that will strike young professionals who have lost their jobs are reduced. Because of this, we will not vote for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts on employment reform, social insurance for unemployment, promoting productive employment, including youth, and introducing new active labour market programmes (registration No. 6067). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:52]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to propose that we re-send the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. Rereading the first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a second. Dear colleagues, if the line didn't work, move to second place, I'm not a technician, I can't walk and see if the row worked. It's just that, Mikola, your presence there gave you a little bit of an overload on the network, there was a special place underneath you. That's where it's stuck, take your seat. Dear colleagues, once again, re-reading Bill 6067. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:26]] For 238. Decision taken. Everything? Well, thank God! Thank you, Mikolayovich, for what we'd do without you. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill is 7478. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the fields of electronic communications and radio spectrum for the period of the state of war and the post-war recovery of the economy. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda. [[13:11:22]] For 254 Decision taken. I'd like to make an offer to consider this under a reduced procedure, 7478. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:47]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now. We said that someone, one or two factions, wanted to discuss it, but then please sign up: two in, two in, two in, against. And then we vote. Please. Please, Volodya Darya Artemovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Stepa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u44	Please, Stepa.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u45	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. It's a very simple and clear bill. During the wartime period, we leave behind the responsibilities that are essential in this time of war. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mikhajlovich, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u48	Heratchenka, please, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u49	Fellow dignitaries, indeed, propose to transfer the powers of the central authority of the executive branch of the State of Liaison at the time of the war. Our faction doesn't see such a need here, but in principle, the subject of communication, electronic communications, digital communications and the state of war, and once the state of war is over, it is extremely important. And we want to draw your attention to the problems of communication and authoritarian bulkheads that are in Ukraine today. I want to remind you that more than 25,000 Ukrainian signatures are petitioned to the government, and this is in a state of war where entire territories are now restricted to Internet access, to the digital system of Ukrainian patriotic television channels. The government promises to implement this decision and to make a decision by July 13. But what we want to ask in this room is why wait for our mistakes to be made, correct them by July 13, when we need to immediately return to digital language for normal communication, these three channels, which were a voluntary, blasphemous method, are unknown to whom, well, we don't know, who are eliminated from digital language? And it's absolutely fair that a lot of those on this stand from the opposition have pointed out that Euro-Atlantic integration should become our ideology. It's not a flag. It's a position, it's an action, it's taking into account the position of the Committee of European Integration under all the laws, not one that's just supposed to be read by someone. And this is certainly a respect for the freedom of speech that should be our ideology in the country. It is embarrassing to hear in Lugano when our partners talk about problems over and over again among the seven points.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u50	The word is given to the national deputy, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, the "Platform for Life" group. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u51	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. To be honest, I don't even know what the debate is about. This question is so natural that we have to vote on it as quickly as possible and as little as possible. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u52	Thank you. People's deputies please take their seats. The committee's proposal to vote on the basis and in general, we also agreed on the Conciliation Council. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications to ensure the formation and implementation of State policy in the fields of electronic communications and radio spectrum for the period of military status and post-war economic recovery (registration number 7478). On the basis and in general, respectable colleagues. Ready? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:44]] For 251 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is 7238. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act to regulate the sale of electricity by power producers under bilateral contracts. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, 7238 - inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:17:23]] For 282 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:45]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favor, two in favor. Write down the factions that want to speak, please. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, may I have the floor to the Potter of Alexia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u54	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u55	Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, the energy issue is extremely important today. We have to do it today because winter is extremely difficult in front of Ukraine. It's obvious to every human being, it's obviously going to be a government today, and obviously we have to take steps right now so it's not too late tomorrow. And the electricity supply system, it can actually become the life cycle that will bring out the energy of our nation. To do that, we have to be extremely careful today and work very carefully with both Energoatoma and all over the system, so that this system can produce the necessary voltage on the network during the winter period, so that this system can export electricity abroad. And we need to do everything we can and can't do today to remove the restrictions on electricity exports to the countries of the European Union where there are still certain restrictions today, and for that we need to fight, which will allow a very substantial addition to the payment balance of Ukraine, and this is very important. I want to remind you, as the head of the interfractional pool, Clean Energy is a healthy environment, that we've been saying over the years about the need to support alternative energy. And then they said, no, it's not in time, it's not necessary, it's not necessary. What would we do today if we didn't and if we didn't? And we need to move on, we need to support alternative energy producers, we need to support Energoat, we need to support all of those today, Hydroenergo, who are able to help us get the country out during the very difficult winter period that is approaching. I urge our government to do whatever it takes, and only then will we be able to carry out this winter season with dignity, though difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u56	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u58	Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill, to vote as a basis and as a whole in the committee. Because this bill makes the Ukrainian electricity market more transparent, more transparent, and the introduction of electronic auctions will allow everyone to see how electricity markets in the Ukrainian market are happening, allow indexes to be formed in the electricity market, allow for long-term contracts to be concluded on competitive grounds. And this step brings us closer to the rules that operate in European energy space. So the adoption of this law will be another step that will allow for integration of the Ukrainian energy market into the European energy market. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u60	The word is given to Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u61	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to a colleague of the Kucherenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u62	Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u63	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I listened with tears of pain and joy to the speech of the previous speaker, my colleague, the chairman of the committee of Mr. Herus, who for three years simply made a tremendous effort to make this energy plant, which he, by the way, was working against just three years ago. During this time, they did this on this energy plant! And the import of Russian electricity, and the import of Belarusian electricity, which Mr. Herus himself provided us until the last moment, by February 24. And the patterns of traders, speculators, who both joined the committee's head, and the head of the National Commission, Mr. Tarasyuk, and on these schemes, have made billions of dollars that didn't fit into the atoms, into the miners, into the heat generation. And now it's only been three years before they've finally matured to correct the mistakes that tens of billions of dollars have paid for. So, of course, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, but I would like to point out that three years later, your repentance was very much and expensive for Ukraine. And how much more did you do in the gas market, in the energy market! What huge debts have been created to begin to correct them now. So no thanks to you, but a great dissatisfaction. And you will be responsible for all your mistakes and crimes. Thank you for your powerful bill. Let's go!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u64	The right to reply is requested by Andrey Mikhailovich Herus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u65	We finally learned that Alexi Juryovich is backing our bills and thanking us for our bills. And I want to point out that, despite the criticism that's going on, our Ukrainian energy system is completely independent, we haven't had any dependence, and we've easily joined the ENTSO-E European Energy System. So, as they say, noise and noise were many, but the truth was few. And to this day, the Ukrainian energy system has made its choice, and we have joined the Europeans. And that's the way we're going to move forward. And I'm very glad the faction will also support our bill. I think it's a good time to connect, so that we can shake each other's hands and carry out the reforms that are needed today in Ukraine. So thank you, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u66	Thank you! The Holy Council has flown. Dear colleagues! Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. After that, Coltunovich is one minute. And then we go to the vote. Paul Andriovich Bakunets, MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Of course, Ukraine, having been granted the status of candidate for the European Union, having actually gained access to the energy market, which is now, in fact, open to our country, voting in this room for many different European integration bills, which form the basis of the life of our updated country, is clearly to be taken into account by this bill, which will add transparency to the electricity market, which will actually take one more step in this market as it is in Europe: everything is open and everything is transparent. At the same time, in addressing all of you, especially our government, at the time and preparation for the heating season, we need to understand with you that not all heat electricity, and that's why we need to pay attention to other sources of energy -- gas. In cities where boilers are prepared, new boilers are needed. Especially in places where the Soviet Union had previously been central boilerhouses. It's very, very important, because we understand what a special period we live in, and cities should not freeze in winter, and we need to do a big job that's just about to start. So I'm paying attention to this to the government, to the Ministry of Profiles and, of course, to the organs of local self-government, on whose shoulders all of this is going to fall the most.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u68	Please, I finally invite you to the word of Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Then we move on to making decisions. People's deputies please take their seats. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u69	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we support the issue of regulating the aspects of all that are in the electricity market, including the sale of electricity to electricity producers. But I'm already going to focus on three key fundamental aspects that we haven't settled in this call, without duplicating what the predecessors have already said. The first is that we have a minimum of this tariff, namely, the electricity tariff, is going to increase from 90 copies to 1 bracelet 44, 60 percent, 1 bracelet 68, and the other category, after 250 kilowatts, we haven't settled that. The second is the sale of electricity and the increase in tariffs for industrial consumers. This also led to inflation and other consequences. We have seen this journey on bread and so forth. And the third thing, of course, I would like to pay attention to is the modernization of energy systems, especially in heat, in nuclear power plants, because that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Law on the Energy Market of Ukraine on the Settlement of Sales of Electricity by Producers of Electricity under Bilateral Contracts (Registration No. 7238). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:18]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 7305. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction into the market of natural gas of calculation and calculation of the amount of gas in units of energy (as regards the term of entry into force). I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:54]] For 285 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:30:17]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed only in the form of a discussion: two in favour, two in opposition. The only question I have is: is this where we're based, like we're talking, on the whole or not, colleagues? It's just a transfer, isn't it, Andrew Mikhailovich? On the basis and in general, we will then put it. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please give the word to Bunin Sergey Valeriyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u72	Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, this bill is certainly important enough, and we will have to accept it. Because it is in energy units that gas is measured in all European countries. But in order to move to energy units, you need a fairly serious information campaign, a fairly serious communication, and you need some serious changes in how the Ukrainian gas market works today. Unfortunately, this is impossible to do today because of war and war. So we do not give up on this idea, but we want to move it until we are able to prepare ourselves properly, peacefully, and when this step is well thought out and prepared. And then it's going to go quietly, and then we're going to go into these energy units. So I urge you to support this bill so that we can make the right decision after the military state -- and after the military state, we've moved on to new energy units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u76	Mikhailo Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, need a transfer of terms. May 1st is considered to be the date of the end of the war, and May 1st, so that this law is put into effect and implemented. In fact, the war is making adjustments, and I'm sure that by May 23, 1st, we'll be able to adopt this law because, in fact, it's very important, and by then, I'm sure our boys on the front and the girls will win, they'll beat the enemy and everything. But the sector in general also needs to be addressed, the gas I mean not only by adopting a measure law in terms of energy units. For example, you remember that laws on taxation have been passed, then changes have been made to make taxation only of the amount of gas implemented, then billions have been proposed not to put, for example, now in arms, into our victory, but to give NAC Naftogazu for questionable tools. And we, as European Solidarity, the Party, have consistently stressed that we have to invest in domestic gas products and that this is the only way to make us, our market is independent. In fact, the European Commission recently declared gas "green" energy. I think we're going to have to move on to that, too. That's why we vote for this law, but the gas sector itself needs substantial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u78	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u79	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u80	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor. We support, of course, the draft law. But, look, it's not about the numbers of a service, it's about making them really vulnerable to the average citizens of Ukraine. I'll get you some numbers and calculations. Look, the price of gas is 7.96 plus 2.148. 10 138 dollars is the price that's for the population. No matter how we spin, no matter where we measure it, it doesn't go as low as it goes. The other one. It's about the housing and utility bills and the debt that it is. Thirty, more than 30 billion dollars is the actual debt just for the gas that goes to today. This, more specifically, at the end of December, Holdstat is not doing the accounting. These are numbers that are also invisible to the population. The fact that today's payments are inconceivable to ordinary citizens of Ukraine is another figure, is that, for example, in December, 30 billion dollars per country paid only 21.6 billion dollars per country. So a third of Ukrainian citizens were physically unable to pay for residential services in December. This shows that today’s tariffs are inoperable. So our proposals are to make changes to the Tax Code and to collect a tax on the added value that goes for gas for the population, or the price of using the nadrama for the gas that is being extracted inside the country. Such fiscal instruments allow for such a rapid increase in the cost of gas, including spotting in European markets. We've seen that by now this figure is almost $2,000 per thousand cubic meters, which means that inside the country there should be fair pricing for gas and other utilities. So once again, the question is not in units of measure, but in how fair it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u82	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland. And then, dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I see. Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u83	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Well, we certainly support the prolongation of the terms of this completely empty, inconclusive law. Because I'm explaining to my colleagues from the committee, some who are talking about some gas market in Ukraine. There's no gas market, now it's all completely concentrated in the Naftogaza NAC, a completely unconsumed monopoly. She's got lies, she's got the whole deal, a hundred percent, she's got everything. And she has the insolence to demand 264 billion money from the budget to cover her free government. I'll take care of it. This whole calorieity, it makes sense in Europe when the consumer of the line has a counter that measures the calorieity of the gas, you know? If you don't have a counter like that, you might want to put it in. Well, I don't want to go any further where my calories are. Because to fool the population and the consumer -- no calories, no calories in the cubes -- what difference does it make how Naftogaz is going to fool the population? The problem is not calories. Two million households in general have no simple counters, no calorie counters in the population. What are you talking about? You'll notice what's happening today in Kharkiv, Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, when now the lies that the Naftogaz NAC is running are absolutely giving up, they don't have enough money for repairs today. How are they supposed to restore the gas supply under fire? With what will people enter the winter? What are you talking about, what kind of calories are you talking about, theoretics and demagogues? So these laws have no meaning yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, we've talked about it as a whole. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction into the market of natural gas accounting and calculation by volume of gas in energy units (for the term of entry into force) (registration number 7305). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:39]] For-286 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 5547. I take it no one's going to make any adjustments to the discussion? Nobody. So let's move on to making a decision. Please don't go away. Dear colleagues, 5547. Let's do it now. [[B in m in s a l in]] For what confirmation? Should there be a confirmation or something? [[B in m in s a l in]] Michael Borisovich, I wish you'd told me before. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Placzkova, two amendments to confirmation. I'm going to check them out.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, actually these two amendments, 512 and 516, I want to be very careful that we all listen to what they're about. In fact, they allow them to conduct clinical studies on children. And it looks very strange. Just listen to what's proposed. One government agency that provides health policy will ask another government authority whether it is possible or not. I think we all see there's a conflict of interest, and these two amendments, 512 and 516, we have to cancel. Please place them for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Please, if possible, the committee's argument. Mikhail Borisovich, what argument? Do you agree with that? Under the record, please. Under the stenogram. 512th, 516th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u87	Colleagues with regard to these two amendments. These studies have been carried out in the country constantly, but some doctors with some pharmaceutical companies have done so without the permission of the State and without the control of the State. These two amendments introduce State control over clinical research and the responsibility of the government and the Ministry of Health for clinical research, so the committee supported these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u88	What's the position now, Mikhailo Borisovich? Support me?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u89	We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u90	Right. Dear colleagues, 512 amendments made by the national deputy Kulinić and other authors are considered by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy Placzkova puts them on the stand. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:54]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The amendment's off. Well, I didn't fly, rejected, I'm sorry. 516 amendments made by the national deputy Stefanishina are included in part. Its own accounting is partly supported by 516 amendments. Please bet on confirmation of 516 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:43:38]] For 240 The amendment remains partially taken into account, as it did in the committee’s decision. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this fundamental bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose the adoption of the draft Law on Medical Devices (registration number 5547) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:29]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, once again. Dear colleagues, I ask the National Deputies to vote in favour of re-reading Bill 5547. [[13:45:09]] For 255 Decision taken. It went to the second one again. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill is 7422. This is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to make medical and rehabilitation assistance more accessible during the war period. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[13:45:50.]] For 271 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:46:13]] For 236 Decision taken. Please, we agreed: two in, two in, against, right? Please register to discuss this bill. Please, Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, a very important bill, because hundreds of Ukrainian military and civilian soldiers are being injured every day in the course of a full-scale war with Russia. The total number of people who have suffered such injuries in the course of hostilities is very difficult to count, but these are thousands of Ukrainians. Hospitals are overcrowded, and doctors in many areas, especially those close to the front work without weekends or rest. And let us not forget that these serious injuries in the near future require serious rehabilitation. So this bill is just in time, and during the war period, it simplifies access to medical and rehabilitation assistance for people who are ready and capable of doing so, including on volunteer grounds. What is proposed? Increase access to rehabilitation by involving professionals who are foreigners, other than Russians and Belarusians. Expand the possibility of volunteering. Simplify the licensing of economic activity from medical practice. To regulate the provision of home-based medical care. The law is required if it is now in the shortest possible time to help our wounded and our military, right at the critical moment. And by voting on this bill, we're cleaning up unnecessary bureaucracy on this issue. I emphasize that such changes will only take effect during a period of war when it is necessary to save people and the country in the shortest time. So please support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u93	Please give my word to my colleague Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u94	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u95	Thank you. In fact, I would like to stress that this bill is extremely important. In recent months, unfortunately, the enemy has nearly destroyed our medical infrastructure. A very large number of medical personnel joined the army, in the ranks of the U.S.S.S.A., in the ranks of TRO and other voluntary and legal formations. And including a very large proportion of female medics went out with their children abroad, saving them from the Russian invasion. So now we have to react extremely and add the maximum number of foreign workers, including new workers, so that we can fully grasp the full level of the need for medical rehabilitation that we're going to have, even now, and we're going to have more every month. Because there are a large number of injured people each day, a very large number of people are disabled, and as a result, they will need long - term rehabilitation. That is why we support and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u96	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national MP Mamyan Suto Cholojevich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u98	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, after this, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, national deputy Dmitriev, and we move on to the vote. I'd like to invite the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, despite the wishes of most factions, I would even expect all factions and groups to unite, we have unfortunately been unable to see on board 226 several times today, and several bills have been sent back to read first and second again. But I want to believe that it is this bill that will unite the session hall and we will see it in 300 votes. Because we have to do everything we can to increase the availability of medical care and the ability to rehabilitate those in it today. This assistance is urgently needed, and we have this opportunity to guarantee and provide. So I hope that I invite you to vote in favour of this law so that, in this difficult, difficult case in the history of an independent Ukraine, it is time to help people who need medical and rehabilitation assistance. Our group is voting in favour. And we hope that everyone will unite around this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u100	Please, and the final word is Dmitri's Oksana Alexander's "Serve of the People." Please, Your Honor, let's move on to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, as far as this bill is concerned, there are only two words to vote for. What do we want to do with it? First of all, allow for the involvement of foreign health professionals and rehabilitation professionals, other than citizens of Russia and Belarus, in the provision of medical care for the simplified procedure required by the state of war. Now it's a complicated procedure, and it's at least six to nine months, and the involvement of foreign doctors has to be now. The other one. Telemedicine and telerehabilitation are tools that we need to use during the war period. It's very important when not all citizens have access to quality medical care, and it's very important for our doctors, because telemedicine is also about being able to consult foreign doctors in difficult situations. Third. We propose to expand the legislative possibilities of volunteering for medical and rehabilitation assistance during the war period. And most importantly, new realities require new solutions, unfortunately, the doctor is now limited in where he can provide medical care. I'm only going to stand for the place listed in the license right now. We can allow the medics who were forced to leave the temporarily occupied areas and territories where fighting is taking place to provide medical care, not at the place listed in the license, but at the place where it is located. This bill is supported by the Ministry of Health, the National Health Service, and our committee. So, colleagues, I very much ask you to support him and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please prepare to make a decision. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the redrafting of provisions in accordance with article 116, part one, of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Access to Medical and Rehabilitation Assistance during Wartime (registration number 7422). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:54:12]] For 262 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7422. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:54:38]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Then we have 2365. We agreed that we would have a three - minute speech by Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich. After that, the Engineer will cast a vote to confirm the amendment 5, 52,74, and then we will vote. Please, I'll start with what I invite. Thus, 2365 is the draft Law on the Protection of Migrant Workers and the Fight against Fraud in Employment Abroad. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, 3 minutes. Instead of their amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u103	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, regarding Bill 2365, I would like to say that the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights had a broad discussion on the support of this bill with the participation of experts and the Cabinet of Ministers, other central executive bodies and the public working in the field of the protection of citizens working abroad. What I'm saying is that the final version of the draft law is almost perfect, although there are a number of observations about its integrity, and there is a question of whether it can protect our citizens who work abroad. A few hundred Ukrainian citizens become victims of fraud abroad each year. Indeed, this problem exists in Ukraine. And the main task of this bill was to make it impossible or to minimize the number of such facts. On the other hand, we also tried to simplify our rights by simplifying the mechanism itself to allow structures that mediate in employment. On the one hand, we've simplified the possibility of doing this kind of business, and on the other hand we've simplified the task of keeping the state in check as to how this is being done in terms of employment. What I'm saying is that very professional remarks are from the General Legal Authority, which were partly taken into account in the second reading, but there's still a series to be worked out in the process of preparing the law itself to come into force. It is necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt a number of well-known regulations to ensure that if this bill is approved, it is truly a protection and help our citizens who are looking for work abroad. It is vital that all those working in this field be able to communicate with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the authority responsible for conducting politics in this area and to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ruššin. You're going to put some more of yours or just these three to confirm, right? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. One second, Mr. Jaroslav. No one else will be put to account for their correction? Nobody. Corrections for confirmation. National MP Ruššin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u105	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have been an employer for most of my life, and I must tell you that such a discriminated person in the country is still being sought. And that's the same law. If we're talking about political instability, we're just saying, by the way, it's in the explanatory note, we're making political instability by interfering with market relations. If the honourable Head here compared us to the Bessarab Market, it would be possible to have the same analogy, in order to remove the crooks from the Bessarab Market, and they are there, to ban sellers from taking payment for their goods. Are the frauds gone? They're gone, but the market's gone. In this case, we also have a colossal impact on the market of such relationships, such services under market conditions. Please do not vote in favour of this amendment, as well as the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u106	So I can put a 5-y, a 52-y and a 74-y right now, will you be one by one? One at a time, all right. Dear colleagues, please take your place. The position of the committee what? Galina Mikolayevna, in general, when the second reading is to be done by someone on the committee behind the rostrum, that is the order we have. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u107	Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u108	Fundamental grounding. Dear colleagues, I'm putting amendment number five. It is considered by the committee, but the national deputy Ruššin requests that the amendment be made for confirmation. I'll bet you an amendment for confirmation, please vote. [[2:01:05]] For 221 The decision is not taken, the amendment is rejected. Please, Engine, next amendment 52, you want it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u109	Thank you, dear colleagues, for your understanding. Now look at what is written in the explanatory note below. Despite 1.7 million job invitations from our citizens in Poland in 2017, only 12,000 people went to work in this country through licensed companies. A very good example of when we intervene in market conditions, people are going to do it in an illegal, shadowy way. And we're proving for the next time that we're a country of employment and we're only looking after the interests of the hired, only the hired. The employer in these relationships is treated as an unequal party on which additional costs are relied. Dear colleagues, please don't vote for this amendment and the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, 52 amendments, she's considered by the committee, the position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, we ask for an amendment to support. This law cancels the licensing of such activities as employment abroad. In addition, if this amendment is not supported, we will have to ask for a second reading of the bill because the whole logic of the bill will be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, 52 revisions. Please take your seats. 52 amendments, it's counted by the committee. At the same time, the National MP, Ruššin, asks for confirmation. The committee notes that this is an extremely important amendment. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[14:03:14]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Well, guys, we still have to go through with it. Are you going to make the third amendment? 74 amendment, Engine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u113	The only thing I wanted to thank the authors for was canceling that license. And I agree with you that it's going to have to be cancelled, another thing that's not Communist-Socialistic. And now let's think about the situation: I'm a high-paying renter, and I want to get an even better job. I'm going to the appropriate agency, because I can't look for a job on my own, and I have to delegate these powers to someone. This agency comes to the employer, and this is a competitive job, because it's highly paid, which we all dream of, and the employer hears that he has to pay for it, and it's usually tied to a high-paying salary, and he says, "No, good-bye, I don't want a new specialist." The purpose of this law is to solve the problems of the poor employee at the expense of the employer. Therefore, I ask you not to vote in favour or in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u114	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u115	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, expressed his position and confirmed it. Please send this bill back to read again. Then we do not feel that it is necessary to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the 74th Amendment, is counted by committee. The National MP Ruššin puts it on the stand. Please vote. [[2:05:06]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I've heard the committee's proposal, but I have to put it the way I'm going to put it: first the committee's decision; if it doesn't, then we'll put the second accordingly. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I propose to adopt the draft Law on the Protection of Migrant Workers and the Fight against Fraud in Foreign Employment (Registration No. 2365) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:00]] For-183 The decision is not taken. So I'm proposing to send this bill, 2365, on the protection of migrant workers and on the fight against fraud in employment abroad for re-reading. Dear colleagues, 2,365 again. Please vote. [[14:06:34]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have two bills close to the content. So let's go over the bill. 5795: Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the application of the work of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine And registration number 6045: on the amendment to the Employment of the Population Act of Ukraine to ensure transparency in the activities of economic operators who provide services in the field of employment abroad and the elimination of non-market labour market regulation mechanisms. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed to consider these bills at the same time. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to consider these bills in short motion. Please vote. [[14:07:39]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have also agreed on the Conciliation Council that we will give the floor only to the two authors and immediately vote. So please don't split up. I invite you to speak to the Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Tetjan Vasilevna Beraževa. Please, Aunty Vasilyvna. Deputy. Excuse me, we'll use feminitis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u117	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! Regarding Bill 5795. The bill is designed to strengthen public security in the field of protecting the work of foreigners and stateless persons. He will allow for a clear mechanism of issuing and continuing the work permit for such persons. And what's more, it's going to expand the list of convenient ways for employers to submit documents to obtain such permits, which is particularly relevant during the war period. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the bill will establish proper control over the work of foreigners and non-citizens and the payment of the only social contribution. Moreover, it will contribute to the detinction of labour relations in the field of foreign labour participation and, more importantly, will contribute to the official employment of foreigners who are studying in Ukraine and who are working free of learning time and are planning to continue working after school. In such cases the employer’s permission to employ such types of persons will be granted free of charge. Moreover, it is very important that the draft law improves the procedure for issuing such permits and makes this administrative service available through the CNAP, as well as through the portal "Dia". It is introduced free of charge for the employer to issue a duplicate permit and to make changes to the permit. My colleagues, I would also like to point out that the bill will change the approach to the guaranteed amount of wages for foreigners. It takes a lower limit of between 5 and 10 minimum wages, making the employment environment attractive to a foreign investor in postwar times to rebuild Ukraine. It's a very important bill to liberalize labour relations, to give foreign labour access at such an important time to foreign investors. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u118	Thank you. Thank you. Please, who. Oh, excuse me, just a second. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u119	Good day again, dear fellows! Indeed, the bill was valid, the bills were valid, and until the beginning of the full-scale aggression, they are relevant today. Our Bill 6045, signed by me, our colleagues, has been supported by more than 60 national deputies. He regulates a somewhat narrow list of issues, but unlike the government, he was supported by the committee on the basis and in general. So, really, me and my colleagues think it was right to vote it out, vote on the basis today and in general, send it to the President to solve a number of issues, a series of problematic issues. The first is the issue of discrimination, non-market mechanisms, especially given that we are moving to Europe. Today we must uphold the principles that are in force within the European Union. So the workers who have Ukrainian citizenship really, we have to support them first, but we also have to ensure equal rights for everyone else. The second important question is the issue of combating corruption. Because any restrictions create corrupt mechanisms that you and I have to eliminate in the territory of our country. And the third question is, it's crucial today. Today, during the restoration of those territories that are free of the enemy and after the full-scale victory of Ukraine, we will need additional working hands, forces, high-quality and middle-level workers to quickly ensure the restoration of our state with you. So please support Bill 6045 and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, let's make a deal, I beg you very much, let's make a deal on the Conciliation Council, we make a deal with the Hall, otherwise why the Conciliation Council. Let's, let's make a deal, these two bills are made by two authors. We'll get you somewhere else. Dear colleagues, let us not ruin the principles of mutual trust. Thus, high - ranking colleagues make the following proposal, which was discussed earlier at the Conciliation Council today. Adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the application of the work of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine (registration number 5795), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights to finalize the proposed bill, taking into account proposals and amendments to the right of legislators, the main provisions of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Employment Act "On Employment" to ensure transparency in the activities of economic operators who provide services in the field of employment abroad, and the elimination of non-market-based labour market regulation mechanisms (registration No. 6045). And bring it, i.e. 5795, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. Do you understand the position? People's deputies please vote in favour of this proposal. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:14:26]] For 240 Decision taken. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision we have made with the Apparatus. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next, we have 7465, 7465-1 is a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the characteristics of financial sector activities in connection with the introduction of military status in Ukraine. I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:19]] For the 250. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:15:40]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favor, two in favour. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u122	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no question in the Chamber today about the state of government finances. I have the impression that most national MPs don't understand the threat of large-scale monetaryization that started in our country. Do we already understand the level of inflation that is now widespread in Ukraine? Do we understand that hyperinflation is at the threshold of Ukraine? So today, I would be looking at this bill precisely because of what messages we have now from the National Bank of Ukraine. It seems to me that the expanded power of the National Bank to maintain during a special period in its established order of accounts of state bodies, designed to meet the needs of the State in the absence of armed aggression against Ukraine, can become an instrument of hidden money emissions, as the analysis of the revenue and expenditure of the budget indicates a significant deficit in the actual financing of the country's defence spending, and we are already talking about it and writing about it. I didn't get an answer to the committee meeting, however, why institutions, banks that serve the accounts of these state institutions, why Ukraine's treasury cannot continue to handle accounts. Why would you do that to a National Bank that doesn't have a function like that? That's the same question as asking the Chief Research Administration. It seems to me that we have not received an answer from the Fund to Guarantee the investments of individuals, why they should have the right to determine their own powers during the war period. I would like to abstain from voting on this bill. We're definitely gonna hang in there. We need further explanations. It is quite obvious that other purposes are hidden here, which are prescribed in the law. In the meantime, it is ambiguous and vague.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u124	The word is given to the National Deputy Christmas Valery Ivanovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, please listen to the committee's opinion and support the alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u126	The Gethmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is military. A bill that contains several important standards for military time. First, you and I passed in peacetime, another year ago, the Payment Systems Act, which takes effect on August 1. We have to move it because you and I are just going to block the work of our payment systems, our credit cards and everything. It's a fundamental question. The other one. We need to allow credit unions to temporarily stop their activities if they can't do it, and to address the issue of recovery after the period of cessation. These are also the corresponding standards in the bill. We also need to reinstate, in a limited regime, the submission to the National Bank of Reportable Persons and other information and documents to publish this report, if they are able to do so, because banks and financial credit institutions are also investors who need to be secure and who need to understand that they will receive their money despite the war, however. I want to take a stand at the Guarantee Fund's authority. We're just simplifying the procedure for making separate technical decisions by the Guarantee Fund without being tried for military time alone. The same powers we gave to the National Bank, the same powers we gave to the Commission from the stock market. So it's totally military time. Please support the bill with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, also Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, and after that. And after that, Coltunovich. Let's move on to making a decision. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u129	Mr. Head, I have a statement not by law, but by procedure with your permission. We agreed that there would be no committee representatives. In doing so, from the "Serving of the People" faction, another national MP appeared before the distinguished Danil Alexanderovich. I don't quite understand, with all due respect to Danil Alexanderovich, I don't understand why he got the word. The honourable MP, who spoke before Daniel Alexanderovich, said that he was asking to support the committee’s decision — that is, he finished the speech — there was no transfer of word. So I'm just asking you to hold on to this next time, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u130	I'm sorry. Thank you, if that's really what happened. Because I was just distracted, they told me they were handing over the word to the Gethmans. I'm sorry. Please, Coltunovich. After that, we invite all the deputies to the Hall and we vote. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u131	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, on the characteristics of the financial sector with the introduction of martial law, well, in general, in a state of ingenuity. And what I'd like to pay attention to is some of the colleagues have already talked about it. Now we're not making any fragmented, single proposals, but we need a complex solution and a solution to the coma that flows into the country's financial system. We've all seen a comment by the Head of the National Bank that has criticised excessive monetaryization, excessive debt policy. And we see statistics that are published that we have a government-guaranteed debt for today as much as $101 billion. If we take the income/expenditure ratio, 1.9, almost twice, the budget revenue is lower than the expenditure. And the loan in six months is 561 billion dollars, and in total, more than a trillion dollars will be planned for a year. We need a comprehensive programme to solve the financial crisis that's in the country, not just those.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats. Please contact all national deputies, persons who have the status of national deputy of the ninth vocation and who are present at this time in the Hall, to take their places with their name, name and father and name on their tablet. Please. And now let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt Bill 7465-1 as a basis – this is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of financial sector activities in relation to the introduction of military status in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:24:03]] For 236 Decision taken. I propose to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading on the bill just adopted (7465-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:24:33]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to pass on the word to Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next bill. This is Bill 6320. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to simplify the provision of information necessary for financial monitoring. We agreed to discuss it, do I remember? Discussing with speeches: two in, two in, and two in, against. Okay. Then I put to the vote the issue of a reduced procedure. [[14:25:28]] For 227 Decision taken. Do we need an address from the authors or do we sign up right away? Then let's write it down: two for, two for, two for, please. Please, Servant of the People, Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u134	I think at this point we need less talk and more decision-making. Therefore, I would like to proceed to the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, European Solidarity, Nina Petrovna Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that someday you will be responsible for your smiles about the discussion in the hall. Life is moving fast, and you were once an activist who broke up there, asked for something to accept, and now you're taking your initiatives and laughing suddenly here in the hall. And now, essentially. Please tell me, I don't understand why we accept without discussion, for example, Bill 6003, which also introduced new mechanisms to the Single State Register of Legal Persons about the possible misstatement of information? Before this project, there were some negative conclusions, and it had to be sent for processing. They were accepted without discussion in the first reading. Now we have a bunch of problems. I don't know, there are bright representatives in "ministers of the people" -- people who understand these draft laws, why are you silent? Why are we creating new problems for business and for entrepreneurs? This bill seems to be aimed at simplifying the information mechanism for end-user owners and the ownership structure of legal persons, but again it has significant shortcomings. We told you that we would certainly consider the shortcomings that we discussed last fall when people stood in line and didn’t understand how to provide information about the final beneficiary owners. We said that if the founders of the companies are exclusively natural persons, then the structure of the beneficiary property should be extravagant. You're just chasing people in order to get them in line, to draw something, and to be responsible for the inadequacy. What is the responsibility of the registrar who accepts this information? Where are the structures to track and, on the contrary, to provide information to the registrar? It's the same baby. If it has been found that someone else has a significant influence or influence on the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u137	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Please, Comedian Natalia Igorovna, "Resurrection of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Mr. Valery Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u139	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Honourable Natalia Igorovna. The bill simplifies and speeds up the procedure for legal persons to submit information on beneficiaries and the structure of ownership to the register of legal persons. In particular, the verification of such information is automated, the requirement for mandatory notarial certification of copies of documents that are not transferred from enterprises is waived. At the same time, the bill provides for a specific order and method of reporting such information, which is called upon to make the whole process clear and ambiguous. In its present form, however, the bill retains some threats, including a new procedure for filing documents on beneficiaries and ownership structure, which may increase the level of errors and inconsistencies, since there is no mechanism for checking primary financial monitoring. This is an important point that needs to be worked out. Therefore, the parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" urges Parliament to accept this document as a basis and to carefully develop it for the second reading. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u141	Thank you. Other factions and groups will be recorded? All of it. Then let's go to the vote, colleagues. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill under registration number 6320: draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to simplify the order of submission of information necessary for financial monitoring. Please vote. [[14:30:53]] For 234 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. I propose to cut the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[14:31:24]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's go to the next bill. Bill No. 7284: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the social protection of members of the military and primary ranks and the conditions for civil protection services. Welcome to the rostrum of Mr. Mandy's subcommittee or someone on the committee. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. We've had a "fatherland" speech here, haven't we? Please, three minutes. We can still go to the vote. And one correction. Okay. Please, Tsimbaluk, Fatherland, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u142	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I thank the drafters of the bill for such an initiative because the subject is extremely relevant. Today, thousands of civil defense workers or emergency services are on hold. They're the first to arrive where the consequences of the bombing are to be eliminated by an aggressor opponent, the Russian Federation. Today they are demarcating hundreds of square feet [100 sq m] of territory liberated by the Ukrainian Armed Forces, making the social protection of these workers a duty of the State. And the Fatherland faction will support this bill and ask all colleagues present to vote in favour. But, dear colleagues, there are a few points to consider. They are also expressed by our rights, which are not taken into account, but also by our legal authorities. This is particularly true of the additions to Ukraine’s Health Protection Foundation, article 70 with a badge, regarding medical expertise of members of the civil protection service and some others. I have to take into account that there are no terms that are listed here in the law: medical expertise, expert commission. And the law uses terms, the draft law: medical expertise, military-medical expertise, the medical-social expert commission. This can be taken into account by the observation of the General Legal Authority. But I would like to pay attention to all of us and put to the vote an amendment for number 12. What's she talking about? It says that the law applies to those who have died, the Law on Soldiers, that in the event of death or the person who has been released and one year thereafter has died, and there is confirmation of the expertise that death was caused by service or injury, then material assistance is received. This law is in force, and the position for all military personnel when we extend the standards to civil service workers, members of the military and the chief of staff, needs to be supported. Let's support these guys or family members.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u143	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. The committee, are you going to answer anything? Okay, okay. What are you doing? 12th. Is it counted? What's wrong with her? Are You Confirmed? That's what I'm talking about. I'm going to see if that's your job. Yeah, it's your paper. I'm betting on the vote number 12 of the people's representative of Tsimbaluka. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:36:20]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Can we get to the vote for the bill? Okay. Then, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, a bill under registration number 7284 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the social protection of members of the military and primary ranks and the conditions for civil protection services. Please vote. [[14:37:07]] For 259. Decision taken. The factions. The law is passed in general. We move on to the next bill, registration number 7327: draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the state environmental monitoring system. There's a number of votes we should make. I would like to propose to include in the agenda of the day a bill for registration number 7327. Please vote. [[14:37:52]] For 234 Decision taken. It was an offer to discuss it. Does this desire continue, or do we vote so? Oh, no? Do you want to talk? Okay. Then I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:38:26]] For 221 Decision taken. Do the authors need a report? Then we'll sign up for the discussion. Please sign up for the discussion: two in, two in the opposite. Please, "Serve of the people," Kultenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u144	Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u145	Thank you. "European Solidarity", Joanna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u146	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u147	Maria Ionova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the title of the bill: the creation of a state environmental monitoring system. There's a very long name, but these are the corresponding changes to 18 legislative acts. And unfortunately, we have a list of very serious flaws. I would ask the committee, if possible, to work on the first reading and still to make a law that does not conflict with the Constitution. And the main thing I would like to highlight is this. There's an anti-constitutional norm where some of the information is classified and citizens' rights are restricted. And I hope they'll take that into account. In principle, the disadvantage is that the importance of forest monitoring is weakening, the regulation of land monitoring issues in the Ukrainian Code of Land. And in principle, there is no legal definition with a number of concepts introduced by the project. I would like to point out that the bill proposes that the order of operation of the state monitoring system be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. And, dear colleagues, we are in reality, unfortunately, the practice of three years shows how, unfortunately, illegal acts can destroy the law itself. No such function may be assigned to a sub-law. Next. A number of problems with the violation of the principle of legal certainty as an integral part of the rule of law. And this is also unconstitutional. And so the bill completely narrows down the provision of environmental information. If you're ideologically and seriously prepared for transparency, for our strategic wealth, and this is the earth, this environment, this is our forests to control themselves, and to be transparently controlled and monitored, it's worth it not to manipulate, but to really submit the normal text of the bill right away. I would very much like to work on it and get the initiator, the Cabinet of Ministers back to work. And the state monitoring system is still serious, if we don't want to continue to correct our mistakes, what will be out of line with European legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor. Given today's heavy load, our faction will support the group. And please put the question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u151	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, for your fineness. Are there still desirable factions and groups? Then let's go to the vote, colleagues. Please take your seats. I'm betting on a bill on registration number 7327: draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the state environmental monitoring system. The proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Please vote. [[14:42:39]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Then, colleagues, we have the following suggestions. To re-read to the committee. Let's do it again, shall we? There is a proposal to re-read Bill 7327. Please vote. [[14:43:22]] For 235 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at re-reading the first reading. And we have two more bills in our second reading. Bill number 7280. Therefore, I invite representatives of the relevant committee, the anti-corruption committee, to the rostrum. Who will it be? Anastasia Olegovna Radina, head of the Anastasia Committee What are we, Sergey Volodymyrovich? It's three minutes, isn't it? Okay. Then please, Mikhailo Cimbaluk, three minutes. Julia Klimenko is an amendment. And you're going to be making amends, Mr. Michael, are you just doing a speech? No, it's just a performance. Okay. And then there's Mrs. Julia. And Vitaly Bezgin, I see. The Gerenic Alexius. Okay. Then, please, let's start with Mr. Michael, the speeches, and then the vote. Please, Mr. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u152	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in fact, we believe that the task of authors, initiators of this bill, is not done after the first reading. In fact, it will not be effective in its application. Moreover, we believe that this will not be a major task for the declaration and implementation of the Anti-Corruption Act. My faction colleagues and I did everything we could to improve it by introducing the rights. Sadly, though, they were not all included in the committee. We believe that, for example, the proposals that we have made, that the transfer of payments to special accounts for services opened by the National Bank of Ukraine to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces, or humanitarian aid to Ukrainians affected by the actions of the Russian Federation's aggressor state, could be taken into account, and indeed the law would be more balanced. We thought that taking into account the number 14 bill, the text of which was: "implementation in the established legislation of the order of charitable donations (with the payment of services to support the protection of persons affected by the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine)" would also reinforce the task of this bill. We believe that. We have proposed our rights that voluntary activities in favour of the designated entities in the declarant’s bill may involve the cost of delivering the goods. Then, instead of the full cost of the gifts received, the goals involved will be the actual contributions entrusted to the volunteer. And so there is the problem of giving and declaring the funds needed for the related expenses that have been spent. In our case, it's the bank's money to make transfers. We asked the committee to take into account the observations made by the General Legal Authority, which were of a substantial professional nature, and in the case of taking into account the actual part of the tasks of this law, it was possible to carry out. Otherwise, we will not vote for such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u153	Thank you. Next, Julia Klimenko, please, Voice. What's the readout number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u154	49th. Forty-nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u155	49th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, 49 revisions, we consider it absolutely unnecessary and ask that we put it in place, because everything in this direction is already regulated by the NAM and we ask for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u157	49th, right? So it's not your job. Or 45th? Oh, for confirmation? All right, colleagues. Then please, let's concentrate. The confirmation number 49, it's counted by the committee. National MP Klimenko puts it on the stand. Please vote. [[14:48:39]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next, Bezgin Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u158	Thank you. Please confirm 54 revisions. This is true of those released during the period of military service and service in the organs. We have already settled this issue in Bill 7269, which has been signed and has become effective. So I don't think it's appropriate to do this right here, and I don't think it's a request to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u159	Please, the committee. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u160	Colleagues, rightly, are governed by another law. No editing can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u161	The committee is not asking for support because another law has already entered into force that regulates it. I'm betting on a vote on Bezgin Vitali Juryovich's amendment number 54. Please vote. [[14:49:46]] For-44 The decision is not taken. It's a ferret. Please, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u162	Guys, I want to put 53 confirmation checks. We actually supported her on the committee, but she turned out to be excessive. So please don't support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u163	Is there going to be a committee position? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the committee's rights were partly taken into account, but as the author of the amendment, I do not insist. It is a matter of continuing the law, the law, and I apologize for the protection of the reporting subjects (Mr. Vlasenko), which we adopted early in March of this year. That's why we can't be supported here either.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-08-m0.u165	Okay. Thank you. Please vote. Amendment number 53. The offer of Alexy Zmerenecki. 55? 53, right? 53, yes, please. 53. Please vote. [[14:51:05]] For-50 The decision is not taken. We can go to voting for the law as a whole. Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, a bill under registration number 7280: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the characteristics of the application of anti-corruption legislation. Please vote. [[14:51:52]] For 240 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. As we move on to another law, there is an announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association Economic Jump. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Natalhu Dmitry Andriyovich, was elected head of this association. That's what we're congratulating him on. You don't? He's training somewhere, practicing economic jumping. Okay. Colleagues, we have Bill 7367. Now, just a second. I'd like to invite representatives of the committee. Aunt Ciba, please. Are there any desirable amendments to bet on confirmation? It doesn't, does it? Then we can go to the vote as a whole. Then I'll put the motion to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] A minute? There's no such procedure from the committee. There is no procedure. Make some adjustments, then she'll answer. Nestor Ivanovich, you're an experienced parliamentarian. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the bill under registration number 7367: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to provide additional safeguards for journalists working in areas of military (military) action). Please vote. [[14:54:24]] For 271 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Fellows, let's not break up, let's vote on the proposal to sign the bills adopted today as a whole by the Supreme Council and send them to the President of Ukraine immediately. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[14:54:59]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you, colleagues, for your work. The agenda for today has been completed. We do not close our plenary session, we continue to work together to win. We believe in the Armed Forces and the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine! The time and place of the next extended meeting will be further reported.
