ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National MPs, every time before the extension and during the plenary, I appeal to all the national MPs not to spread information about the beginning of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than half an hour or an hour after the end of our work. Unfortunately, some of our colleagues in the race for social network ratings publish the results of the vote during our plenary work, thereby putting each of us, the employees of the Apparatus and generally the only legislative body of our nation at risk. So sometimes I insist on not neglecting the safety and not being a fire repairer for our enemies. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed on the desks of each and every one of you. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council is working in a single plenary session, so today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposal of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, in good parliamentary tradition, let's begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable national MPs, the ninth month of the heroic opposition of the Ukrainian people and their state in a full - scale racist invasion. Our victorious army keeps moving forward, liberating the Fatherland from the Russian invaders. Sadly, our soldiers, peaceful citizens, and innocent children are killed in this terrible war. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of defenders and protectors who have fallen into battle for Ukraine and all the victims of criminal Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a railway day in Ukraine today. Despite constant danger, regular train accidents, enemy artillery fire, railway workers continue day and night, risking their lives to save people, to connect them with their families and loved ones, to provide humanitarian aid, to provide for the needs of the front and industry. On behalf of the Supreme Council, we thank you for your daily hard work. We wish you health, always a happy road, and a peaceful sky. And let us applaud our railwaymen with their professional festival. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today also the birthdays of our fellow national deputies, Eugene Pavlovich Pivovarov, "Serve of the People", let's welcome, as well as Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, "Platform for Life and Peace". [[Applause]] Let us welcome our colleagues, wish them good health, life’s optimism, and the quickest victory over the enemy. Dear National Deputies, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed, before we begin our consideration of matters of order, to give three minutes' time for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Therefore, I ask representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Konstankević Irina Miroslavni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I have authority from the Group "Towards" and from all the national MPs who work in the field of humanitarian, information, to ask a very resonant, socially irritable question. It's about the appointment of the new headmaster of the National Center of Alexander Duženka. This issue has affected a large number of people, and it has upset the destruction of an institution that has been operating since 1994, an institution that has a beautiful film archive that has a beautiful animation that has a name and recognition at world level. But for the moment, we have seen the progressive systematic destruction of this cultural institution over the last few years. And as Ostap Vishna used to say, "People, if you come to the literature, take off your shoes." So I want to tell you, if modern innovators come into culture, take off your shoes. Because a person who doesn't have the slightest involvement in movies, except that he's a filmmaker, that's, he's basically based on his movie root, and all the rest. She's probably a beautiful hypnologist, she's a wonderful accountant, obviously, and probably a lawyer, but from the movie, she didn't cross the TV. So I urge all colleagues to support the appeal to the Ukrainian government, to review the decision in view of the fact that there is a committee decision since August 2022, on the recommendation of the government, to suspend any action of destruction, the dismemberment of the debt centre. It cannot be destroyed because it has a future, especially in times of war. Such institutions cannot be destroyed during wartime because they preserve national memory, national heritage, national history, and without it our identification as Ukrainians and Ukraine is impossible. So I call on everyone, we'll save the long-distance center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u3	Please, National Deputy Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich, please. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainians! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the 2023 budget, which consists of 50 percent of the Ukrainian tax payers who work conscientiously during a state of war and half of the funds of our donors. Regrettably, Parliament has refused public discussion on how every penny of taxpayers will be spent. And we saw how the government and the minister of culture fought for 2 billion dollars for a marathon for the oligarchic canals. But at the same time, the minister of culture didn't really say a word about the unique phenomenon of Longzhenko-Centre for Ukrainian culture. Where the executive director was released and the master of political sessions was appointed, the filmologist, probably because, as a root, they think it has something to do with the film that will now run the Ukrainian archives. In fact, "European Solidarity" expresses its disagreement with this assignment. And he's addressing both the government and the Ministry of Culture to review this decision immediately. Culture is to be managed today, by professional people, by those who can ensure the evacuation of museums, by those who can ensure the preservation of cultural values, and by those who experience it, it will hurt, not just to fight for the money of the oligarchicans who have turned this marathon into such a propaganda machine. In fact, similarly, if we're talking about the 2023 budget, all Ukrainians today are asking how we could vote for an increase of 7 billion road costs when we can't hear the answer: Yes, what is being repaired in areas that have not been affected by war, where there have been no fighting? Similarly, we believe that all finances today should go primarily to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. When the Law of the Communities buys Spartans for the army today, the canteens, the armored cars for the army. Other volunteers around the world are looking for pickets, pickups, and at this time we have roads to finance, a marathon to finance, and no extra funds are allocated to the army. We believe that infrastructure should be a priority today. Please excuse the financing of dry ports that have to work on the border of Ukraine and the European Union, and through which we need to increase our export opportunities for farmers. We have a lot of problems today with teachers who talk about education subsidies and the need for the Ministry of Education's professional work. But I don't understand why these topics don't go up in Parliament, they don't get professionalized. And we did everything we could to make the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u5	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Julia Leonidina Klimenko, good afternoon!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u6	You're not giving me your word, so I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u7	Forced brothers do. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u8	You don't give a word. Klimenko, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, I want to dedicate my speech today to our important sector, an important sector, an education where you and I have huge problems. Because he's actually occupied education, you could say, by the fifth column, and he's systematically destroying it. You know, the most successful countries in the world are those countries that have quality education. Countries that do not have a quality education have no future. So for us, quality education is a question of survival, it's a question of building a successful country after our victory. Let's look at our education and the industry that's taking the lead. First. Absolutely unprofessional Minister Scarlett, godfather of the Tobacco, who systematically, in fact, destroys and does not care about education. Next, there's his godfather, Scarlett and Tobacco, Mr. Lutsky, who heads, attention, National Aviation University, strategic university for Ukraine. And now we have another relative, I don't know, a friend of Scarlett and Lutsky - Mr. Cirulik Edward, who will now lead the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education Tell me, please, this man, I took a look at her biography, finished my 20th master's degree, special attention: industrial civilian construction of the National Aviation University. She then headed the corporate management department. What is the best person in the education sector who can appreciate education? Tell me why, please, Mr. Scarlett, instead of preparing for school. And the bomb shelter went that month, attention, to Montreal, Canada, to the Civil Aviation Conference? Where is Mr. Scarlett's place for civil aviation? Why, at the expense of government funds, for tax payers who have to go to security, for the protection of our country, is Scarlett going to Montreal to do so. For the Civil Aviation Conference? Finally, the Kremlin has always viewed our education as a strategic goal. So many years of education was destroyed in Ukraine because they understood that good education in Ukraine was a developed Ukraine. Therefore, the education quota has always been the quota of the OPCW, the "regionals" and all the other, the fifth column in Ukraine, the prokremly quasi-politics. So let's clean it up and start building a normal education in order to have a future and implement the plan that does.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u9	Thank you, Julia Leonidina. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, "Trust" group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, each time we begin our work, we pray for our military, thank our Armed Forces of Ukraine for having the opportunity to work in our jobs. Of course, we appreciate that courage, that power, and that work of our Armed Forces, especially the fighting brigades. It is also important to note that those who took up their uniforms, took up arms, came to the military, worked in territorial defenses, or defended their homes in various areas, and stayed in places. However, they showed more courage and left, and they have been fighting in the trenches for more than a month. Of course, they also psychologically want to return home. So I call upon the country's military and political leadership, the leadership of Ukraine's territorial defence, to consider at least some partial rotation and return home, at least in part, to our territorial defence boys. We have adopted a law in this room that guarantees 10 days of leave during the war for every man bound by war. We also have to add, because our protectors are asking this, this vacation without taking the time on the road, that is, two more days within the country to get home, to spend 10 days with their families, and two days to get back to their military unit. So I think it's going to help get our guys, our supporters. We also need to talk about our family of advocates who are serving, who may be living and waiting for them at home each day. Even more so are the relatives of our prisoners of war at home. We thank you for these exchanges that are taking place, and they are larger and smaller. We also, of course, ask the General Intelligence Directorate to communicate better with the relatives of our prisoners of war, because each prisoner must be returned home, and the nervous system of all family members must still be at rest. So we need to communicate with them in a large way. There is also a bill today that we pay due respect to those who fought in the 20th century for Ukraine's independence, who were repressed and then rehabilitated, and there is an opportunity for them to have a higher pension salary. So I urge everyone to support this bill, to show respect for those who fought in the 20th century for our independence, to some of them lives, some of them have left much to health. There are not many in our country, but there is also a need to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u11	Please, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Soboljev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u13	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u14	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I would like to raise a topic that I think is very, very relevant and important. All the efforts that our Parliament has made, above the leadership of the State to recognize the Russian Federation as a terrorist country or a sponsor country, in my opinion, should be continued. What exists today is that there are terrorist formations, private military companies like Wagner and others, which should be raised internationally, recognized by these military companies by terrorist organizations. And just as we have in Parliament, in a number of our decisions, we have highlighted this most important stage, which forms a factual and public opinion, in my opinion, as it is now in all international arenas: from the United Nations Organization, the Parliamentary Assembly, the NATO Assembly at all international meetings, there should be a raise of questions about the recognition of private Russian military fascist companies by terrorist organizations. This will allow just as a terrorist of the Russian Federation to forget the statute of limitations for senior management of the Russian Federation, Putin and its surroundings. Because now everyone's saying that it turns out, it's just Putin and two or three people in his environment were planning what's called a special operation. No! No! Responsibility should be borne by the whole state, responsibility should be borne by every Russian who is silent today, who pretends that nothing is happening in Ukraine. Similarly, anyone who refers to private military companies should be held accountable not as military but as terrorists. I think it should be a separate decision that should be prepared at all levels. The second equally important topic is collaborationism. You know that in the daytime we have several options and amendments and additions to the law. In my view, each ministry and department should define an exclusive list of occupations, positions that are not related to collaborative activities, if people exercise the necessary powers to maintain the vitality, health, and well - being of those who remain in occupied territory. In my opinion, it will be possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u15	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group. The noun doesn't want to, he's handing over Paulie. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to an extraordinary situation today. This is the situation of children and families in the occupied territories. During the last months, he had been able to read the situation in the Kharkiv region. 24 freed communities in the Kharkiv region, 4 in the Herson region, are unfortunately similar to the Kharkiv region. In addition to all other challenges, it is extraordinary to restore the activities of local executives, including child services. Yes, out of the 24 territorial communities in the Kharkiv region that are being repossessed, only a third have at least one employee in the community, and most communities simply have no employees. Nearly 100 percent of the services, and not only in Kharkiv, Herson, but in most areas of Ukraine, there is no means of employment. Destroyed rooms, no computers, no transportation, and to talk about getting to the child and giving him an ambulance. So we have a situation where, during this period, 9 months of this year, an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care is detected and granted a status twice that last year. And it's not because orphans have become smaller, it's not because there are any objective circumstances, it's because there's no one at the level of the state, at the level of the responsible official, to grant this status, to reveal the child, to arrange it. Moreover, institutions where children were to be set up are also destroyed, and so children are simply handed over to homes without social protection, without any financial support, putting the State’s responsibility on the shoulders of specific families, putting children at risk at times. That is why I appeal to the Government of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, to take immediate steps to restore services for children, to take immediate steps to review the relationship between the central government and the local authorities in the decentralization process, to restore state control and state work to protect the family, to protect the child. Sadly, the National Social Service failed and failed. So I demand that the government take measures and personally to officials who today put particular families, specific children, at risk, and do not restore full life in the occupied territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the final performance is Mezenceva Maria Sergiyevna instead of Sergei Stepa. And after that, before Mary starts speaking, I will ask the national deputies to come to the hall because, in view of the great compromise that has been found between factions and groups, there will be virtually no discussion today. So I'm going to ask all the factions and groups to invite their national deputies into the hall. Maria Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the Russian Federation, the terrorist country, the aggressor country, is today setting up every Ukrainian family's so-called military romance when we're having a candlelight dinner with you, and the kids are teaching light and energy science. And it's actually called very simple -- it's energy terrorism. And the Euro Commissioner's visit to Kiev, who met with President Zelenski, for the current week, is a clear signal of support for all of Ukraine. What are we talking about? Dear friends, Ukraine has begun to export electricity to EU countries in extremely short periods of time since the very first days of full-scale aggression by Russia and continues to do so, despite the fact that our GES, TECs, are targeted by Russian weapons every day. President Zelenski noted a terrible figure: about 40 percent of this important energy infrastructure has already been destroyed. We're counting on a new format of cooperation. It is definitely a new group like Ramstein that can provide our active involvement in new economic groups and energy support. This applies to every district we represent with you, every community, this refers to the heat, the energy supply for Ukraine in this one, probably from the most difficult winter we will experience. So, colleagues, from this important rostrum, I would like to urge you, including, to continue to call on fellow parliamentarians and governments to call things our names. Russia is a state with a terrorist regime. In Russia, according to their leaders, we must create a special tribunal in Putin and its immediate political environment. This is the only repeat crime that Russia can continue to commit in the future is the crime of aggression. On February 24, 2014, the Russian dirty foot of a soldier came to the Ukrainian land on a regular basis. She did it in Moldova, Georgia, Afghanistan, Syria. The answer to the international community must be urgent. To the tribunal! Ukraine to be! All of Ukraine awaits this important decision from the international community. Friends, let's hold on and work for the benefit of our nation. Hail ZSU! And the glory of the recent exchange that took place under the leadership of the President of Green and the Office of the President, Mr. Jermak, the GUR and the Centre for the Treatment of Prisoners. All Ukrainians will be returned home. All Ukrainians will be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u19	Thank you, Maria Sergiyevna. Dear colleagues, I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the green pros button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, ready to take part in the signal vote? Are you guys ready? Dear colleagues, please take part in the signal vote. [[10:33:29]] For 244 244 for. 1 – against. Hold on to five. They didn't vote - 93. Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all Ukrainian national deputies, government representatives, to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament not earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council has been given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to take your seats, because, as I said, the vast majority of the issues we've agreed on practically without discussion today we're voting. So let's get this room together a little bit longer. Please take your seats. And we're moving on to issues. 8175 is a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the selection of heads, first deputies, head representatives, secretaries, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ninth convocation. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a proposal to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Ninth Appeal Committees (project No. 8175). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:35:17]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next up, we agreed without discussion, Project 8062. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the settlement of the issue of drawing administrative responsibility for actions aimed at unlawful exemption from or reduction in the payment of customs payments, as well as other unlawful measures aimed at the avoidance of payment of customs payments. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:36:03]] For 273 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of administrative responsibility for actions aimed at unlawfully exempting or reducing the payment of customs payments, as well as other unlawful measures aimed at avoiding payment of customs payments (registration No. 8062). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:36:40]] For 255 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8062. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:37:06]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it came from two factions of the EC and the Fatherland, a three-minute break with a replacement for the performance. We're still going, please don't split up, we're going to work hard today, and I hope it's fruitful.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u20	"European Solidarity" thanks colleagues in Fatherland who share our concerns that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is planning to launch a so-called special procedure to consider such an important law as the Constitutional Procedure Act. Actually, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the ninth call of the Supreme Council, it was promised that this special procedure would be initiated only once when we considered the Banks Act. And then, unfortunately, over and over again, during the discussion of the difficult drafts, this procedure was included in order to prevent any attempt to improve the bill through amendments to the national MPs. And now, unfortunately, we see the same kind of shullery when it comes to such a key institution as the Constitutional Court. I want to speak to my colleagues in large numbers and power, to our view that European Solidarity has yet two years ago registered a bill on a transparent competition for the election of members of the Constitutional Court. We're all proud of how the Higher Anti-Corruption Court was formed, it was formed by an independent, including a foreign expert. And our suggestion that the Constitutional Court be formed by an independent council, where all these connections of the judiciary, namely, independent foreign experts, will enter into the formation of a truly independent Constitutional Court. We saw the violations that members of the Constitutional Court were elected from the Supreme Council when the procedure was not followed. We are now awaiting the conclusions of the Venice Commission on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Act. And that is why we strongly oppose the inclusion of a special procedure under the constitutional procedure bill and demand that the package of this law necessarily include a bill on the independence of the Constitutional Court and the election of constitutional judges -- the highest institution at the expense of the Independent Expert Council, where our foreign partners will enter. And we're calling for the verdict to put this bill to the vote in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues! You will be given a collective proposal signed by the 151 people's deputies of Ukraine on the application of a special procedure for the consideration of bills in the second reading of article 119 with the symbol attached to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure in the second reading of the draft Act (registration number 4533) on constitutional procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you to take your seats. We're voting now. In accordance with article 119 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Take your seats, please. In accordance with article 119 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal of 151 Ukrainian national deputies to apply a special procedure for the second reading of draft legislation (registration number 4533) on constitutional procedure. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:41:45.]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Let's move on, fellows. Dear colleagues, there is no decision, but it does not deprive any other 150 deputies of re-registering the new procedure, so the information is just to be known. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next bill, 8032. We agreed, too, without discussion. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine (for the Fighters for Ukraine's Independence in the 20th Century). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[10:42:43]] For 299 Decision taken. Let's move on to the decision right now. I propose to adopt the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine (for Ukrainian Independence Fighters in the 20th Century) (registration No. 8032). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:43:12]] For 298 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline and the amendments to prepare for the second reading. You don't have to? No, it's not. In general, no. No, it's not. No, it's not. There was no such arrangement. I can cut the lines. Shorten? And you always vote no. Okay. I propose to shorten the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments for the second reading of the bill (register No. 8032). [[10:43:59]] For 297 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill, 6129, is a draft of the Law approving the general purpose science and technology programme for 2021-2025. I propose to adopt this bill as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:44:35]] For 282 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6129. People's deputies please vote. [[10:44:59]] For 261 Decision taken. Here we go, fellow Members, without discussion bill 6321 is a draft law amending article 166 with a badge 11 of the Code of Administrative Offences in connection with changes in the procedure for the submission to the State Register of information about the final beneficial owner of the legal person. I propose to adopt the draft Law 6321 as a basis for drafting the provisions, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? People please. I just announced it. Dear colleagues who can't hear, this is where the microphone is, please take it. I announced it again, guys, don't beat it, let's do it again so it's clear and clear. To be considered as a basis for redrafting the provisions, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, draft Law 6321. Does everyone understand what we're voting for? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:46:16]] For-286 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6321. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:46:42]] For 269 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows, and we've agreed on the next bill, without discussion. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on mandatory registration and use of electronic offices in the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System by representatives of legal professions, legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs (registration No. 7074). 7574-d, 7574-d. I propose to include this issue in the agenda of the day session along with other bills that are attached to it. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:47:38]] For 293 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the mandatory registration and use of electronic offices in the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System by legal representatives, legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs (registration number 7574-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:48:21]] For 277 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7574-d. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:48:48]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following two bills, are in principle linked. We agreed on the first one, the second one without discussion. That's why I'm announcing that we're going to Bill 6240. 6420, I'm sorry, before Bill 6420. It is a draft law on the legal regime of the property of the state - owned social groups (organizations) of the former Soviet Union. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:49:31]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please register: two in favour, two in favour. And after that vote. Dear colleagues, please don't break up. Two, two, no, that could be three minutes. Please sign in. Please, National Deputy Schwacko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Natalus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u23	Please, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u24	Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u25	A fantastic performance, he will enter the Annali of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Just a headband, thank you, Mr. Schwatzko. Please, let's move on. Cuba's Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, the bill in question and the committee meeting had a broad discussion about the purpose of the bill, which was to establish the legal principles for determining property rights in Ukraine’s territory as of 24.08.1991, was in the knowledge, possession, use of appropriate social associations and organizations. Despite the obvious need to resolve this issue, the project contains elements of legal uncertainty as well as GNEU, which opens up opportunities for abuse. In particular, the alienation of property currently held by both individuals and private companies. In fact, it's about a large redistribution of property, not according to legal rules and criteria and ages. First of all, property and trade will be affected. This applies to children's health camps, sanatoriums, boarding houses. It is unlikely that the state will make an effective owner, when it is owned by both organizations and individuals, and large investments have been made in the state-private partnership. At the same time, I would like to say that recognition by the State of Ukraine as the successor of legal persons, by public organisations needs further legal settlement, as it is not reflected in the legislative base today. The project needs much work and work today as well as advice, joint meetings of public organizations. Natural persons who have acquired ownership during this period. He needs to talk. On this issue, we will hold back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u27	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. The question is understandable. The looting of our trade union's property is a matter of course, and a perfectly fair decision is to speak less and vote faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, instead of Sobolev Evtusok, Sergey Mikolaiovich. Before Sergei Mikolaiovich starts talking, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask the national MPs to come to the hall, because we're going to start voting again intensely. I'm asking the people's deputies to come to the hall. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u30	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. My fellow dignitaries, I, looking at the authors, this Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, wouldn't want to be running a cure here from the point of view of the implementation of this draft legal act, which is now being introduced and considered in the session hall. I would like to point out immediately that there are at least two articles of the Constitution of Ukraine that are being violated in this initiative. This is part of the fourth article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution – the right of Ukrainian citizens to use their property, and part four of article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution – is also the right of owners of any property at all. I want to say for the investors. If you and I are talking about a liberal approach to national governance, this mechanism can now be called no different than a Communist regime mechanism -- a return to the state of ownership and property of citizens. The point is that for 30 years, members of these groups had built, owned, built, bought cars in these joints, but at the same time, something in the Cabinet of Ministers had decided to take away all this property. And what I'm going to say is that over the past 30 years, the management approach in these organizations has been completely modernized. I think that the liberals who are now going to press the green button and support this initiative are nothing more than support for the communist regime on those initiatives that the government has now given us to vote on. We protect the property of citizens, we protect the Constitution of Ukraine, we protect it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their jobs. Colleagues, take up jobs, let's move on to decision-making. I'm making an offer, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose the adoption of the draft Law on the Legal Regime for the Property of the National Unions (Organizations) of the former Soviet Union (Registration No. 6420). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:56:55]] For 232 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply line and the amendments to the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:57:21]] For 209 The decision is not taken. We'll be looking at 14 days. Immediately, let us turn to the vote for the next bill involved. Show the factions, please. Show the previous factions, please. Dear colleagues, Bill 6421. It is a draft of the Law on the Moratorium for the estrangement of the property of state - owned social groups (organizations) of the former Soviet Union. I immediately propose to adopt the draft Law on the Moratorium for Seizure of the Property of the National Public Associations (Organizations) of the former Soviet Union (Registration No. 6421). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:58:18]] For 234 Decision taken. Then I'm not going to propose a shorter term, because the previous one hasn't been shortened, we will. I want them to go in sync. Show the factions, please. Everyone saw the socialists. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, next bill 7687. We agreed that there would be only three amendments to Taras Ivanovich Batenka and one amendment to European Solidarity, and we vote. Please, I give the floor to Taras Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three, I said. Is it two? Two. Taras Ivanovich, come on, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u32	Ruslan Alexiyovich, two minutes so I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u33	Two minutes. Taras Ivanovich, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u34	My colleagues, I want to remind you, it has been rightly said in this session room by our other colleagues that the Kremlin has always regarded Ukrainian education and an educated Ukrainian nation as its strategic goal. And we know that a number of students in the day-to-day form of education in the first days of the war joined the terror and then ended up on the front. And despite the fact that article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization Training and Mobilization clearly prohibits the recruitment of military service for a special period of professional, professional, superior, assistant, postgraduate and so on. After all, these brave men of our youth are protecting our Fatherland to this day. But we believe that they have the right, the right to receive this education in the form of day-to-day education. According to the Law on Mobilization and Article 23, which I have called. So a law that changes a number of laws provides for the rules on military service discharges at the time of military service, at the request of military personnel -- professional, professional and higher education, assistants, postgraduate, doctoral students who are learning in a day-to-day or dual form of education. I ask the Hall to support this amendment. These are not so many of our students who have already fulfilled their civic responsibility by protecting our nation. They have the right to rotate, let's say. So please support room number 5, amendment number 26 and amendment number 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u35	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. So the 5 amendment is partial. You insist on taking full account. And 26th, 27th doesn't count, you insist on counting. That's exactly what I'm going to do. Dear colleagues, I'm putting amendment number 5, it's partially accounted for. Taras Ivanovich insists on taking full account of this amendment. Dear colleagues, what is the position of the committee on these amendments? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the 5th amendment, we counted it in part, we counted half the adjustment. We didn't count another part of the bill because it refers to another piece of the bill. Please leave these amendments to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the situation is now fully understood. We're voting on the amendments. And so, 5 amendments are included in part. The author insists on taking full account. The committee's proposal to leave everything as it was. So I'm putting 5 amendments to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:07]] For 124 The decision is not taken. I'm putting 26 amendments by Taras Ivanovich Batenka. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:32]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. And I'm putting the 27th Amendment of People's Deputy Batinka on the line. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:55]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Another change from the EC. Who's it gonna be, Irina? Please, Irina Friz, repair number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I ask you to note that the law that we are considering today is really relevant and important. At the same time, one right actually makes it one that carries corruption risks. Now I'm talking about the need to put 12 of the amendments made by Mrs. Marianne Begola and her colleagues on confirmation, and which is actually discriminating the terms of the Cabinet. Which will form the order and criteria for businesses, organizations, and institutions that will apply to this law, as well as to those who will be protected. So I'm asking you to put this right to confirm, not to support it, because without it, this bill is essential for our state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u39	Please take the seat of the committee. Alexander Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, this is a committee review, please support her, let me briefly explain what this is about. This edition was aligned with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the Ministry of Defense, and this is so that as of 10 November they can defend themselves normally, by normal procedure, 600,000 citizens that are needed for the economy. So please support the green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 12 amendments to Mariana Bezugola's authorship. It's a committee amendment, but the first author of Mariana Besuglou, I understand, but she's counted by committee. At the same time, National Deputy Friz is asking for confirmation, and the committee is asking for support for this amendment. I'm voting on the 12th amendment. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:06]] For 245 Decision taken. The amendment was taken into account. Colleagues, we're done talking, we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization and Mobilization on Armouring of Military Obligations for Mobilization and Wartime (Registration No. 7687). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:50]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on. Then we have only two adjustments. The following Bill 7243 is a bill amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act. They said there'd be two repairs. Your representative was on the Conciliation Council, Julia. There's two modifications to the potcherenko, we agreed. Juli Klimenko, do you want to bet on confirmation or on consideration? For confirmation. But first you're going to have to go to Hotcharyenko, then, if these aren't the corrections you want, then you're going to have to put them on. Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u42	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head! I'll ask for two minutes so I don't have to take any more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u43	Please call the numbers so we can find them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u44	Amendment No. 3 and Amendment No. 4. And, if you don't mind, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! In fact, I don't even encourage you to knock down these amendments because they may remain in this law, but it's another matter. I want to take this opportunity, we're now looking at the Ukrainian Security Service Act, when we were looking at it in the first reading, I said that the property issue is all very interesting, I don't understand the problems that are in the U.S.A. today, with the property that was used for 30 years. But there are huge problems today and we'd really like to hear the answers. Because there are S.H.I.E.L.D. officers today who are defending the state, who unfortunately are dying in this war today, and these are our heroes, and we have great respect and gratitude to them. But there are, unfortunately, traitors on the airlock. We see General Naumov's case running away with the diamonds. We're looking at the H.R.S.A., the Hersonians, the central apparatus. We all remember that on July 17, friends, July 17, that is, a few months ago, John Bakanov was removed from his post as Head of the Board of Directors, by President Greensky’s decree of violation of article 47 of the Armed Forces’ Disciplinary Statute, namely, failure to perform properly the duties that led to human sacrifice or other serious consequences. Friends, this is the kind of formulation that we need to hear the answer to, and what did John Bakanov do? Yet, since that day we know nothing, John Bakanov has just disappeared somewhere as the stone has gone to the bottom of something. What day is he on? What's going on? What did the check show? It's not just a question to Bakanova, because that's the only thing that's going to make sure it doesn't happen again in the future, in which we're all interested here with you. Because the work of the U.S.S.S.A. depends on the lives of every Ukrainian man today. So we demand and we want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u47	Please take the position of the Committee on 3 and 4 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u48	Colleagues, 3 and 4 the amendment here refers to one formulation of "defined by law or law." There's a committee amendment, according to the GNEU's recommendation, we've noted a committee "defined by law". All of it. And please leave the committee alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do it. Alexiyyovich, are you asking us to vote on this? You don't ask. Then we won't vote. Julia Leonidina Klimenko, please. Two minutes or two repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u50	Two minutes. And I won't ask, I just want to say by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u51	Okay, two minutes, and then we vote, colleagues. Please, Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Security Service is a body that must engage and protect our state, including from terrorists. There are so many laws on the Security Service, on reforming it, to take away its economic functions. Instead, you and I are considering the law on transfer, in fact, of the property of the Ukrainian Security Service in an absolutely uncontrollable way. Because I want to remind you that the Ukrainian Security Service, as well as many central authorities and state-owned enterprises, are the largest real estate holdings in Ukraine. They own, the Ukrainian Security Service has 33 kindergartens, bases, in the End-Suspension of the Earth, which have long been torn apart by this power and much more. It's a huge real estate holding. We don't have any other problems as a waste of government property. Please tell me, is your war over? Why do you bring such bills to the hall? Yesterday, our committee was considering a bill to give the Ukrainian Security Service their own license plate. So they're already out of the Ministry. What kind of monster turns into KGB, CNVD, FSB? Please tell me, is there anything to do in a war country? So I strongly urge you not to put such bills into the hall, please, but to reform the Ukrainian Security Service, to leave it with the property it needs. But if any property needs to be transferred to the Armed Forces, the Genstab Ministry of Defence for the time being, please do so from the Ukrainian Security Service to the military state of individual objects and only for defence and security, to the Ministry of Defence, to the U.S.S.A., and to other organs. There is no need to allow the Ukrainian Security Service with a dog of corruption, with a dog of misunderstood people to drain property at the expense of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Alexander Mikhailovich in answer and then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Alexander Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Julia, we've really had a lot of communication about this bill. But, colleagues, I have to remind you, the bill is strictly technical, it's not about any derby or transmission. THE U.S.S.A. is the subject of its own administration. It's not just buildings and land, as they say here, it's all other property, not even car transport, and the BSS is now a subject in another bill, it's government property, and in the Law itself, there's no such thing as a technical bill that's still been drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers before the war. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. I am proposing to adopt a draft Law amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Security Service (Registration No. 7243) Act in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:13:09]] For 272 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on. The following Bill 7649 is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to simplify the mechanism of participation in compulsory state pension insurance. Galino Mikolayevno, please take your place. We agreed: three corrections from Homeland, that's what we're talking about. There will be no amendments, no amendments, no votes. It won't, will it? No, it won't. Thank you. Dear colleagues, then I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to simplify the mechanism of participation in compulsory state pension insurance (registration number 7649). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:14:17]] For 273 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! The next Bill 8088 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine on certain matters of the determination of the legal status of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine under military conditions. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day, 8088. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:01]] For 308. Dear colleagues, I understand so much that there is no discussion. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interim Occupied Territory of Ukraine on certain matters of the determination of the legal status of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine under military conditions (registration No. 8088). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:43]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we cancel out the lines. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8088. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:16:20]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and a final bill for today, but Euro-Integrated. This is Bill 8008. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction, on the protection of Ukraine's financial system from the actions of the State which is engaged in armed aggression against Ukraine, and on the adaptation of legislation to separate FATF standards and the requirements of EU Directive 2018/843. We agreed: 4 minutes -- Mom and 3 amendments, let's see. How much will you have? Two minutes, right? Mikhail Mikhailovich. And then we vote, I get it, right? Please, Mother Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is important only because we are introducing a new system and risk assessments. In 2019 we passed a bill that became the Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds by Crime. According to this law, we've defined a new definition -- they're politically significant people. This bill, which became law, was still voted on, and was recommended for Directive (EU) 2015/849, where paragraph 22 clearly states that persons at risk must be set a minimum of 12 months. The EU Directive states that if the State decides to increase the term, it is a state's own decision. The State's own decision, unfortunately, we've decided that we have PEP forever, but according to the directive. But other countries, such as Austria, Belgium, Britain, have set a time limit for defining the risks of these public figures -- one year. Australia does not consider PEP at all when they left office: Brazil, Canada, for 5 years at the most; Poland, Latvia, for 1 year. And in the United States, there are also uncertainties about the risk of PEP operations -- only foreign PEPs. By my rights, I want to propose changes to the law, that the FATF risk-refining system, the state of Ukraine legalizes, is the definition of risks. And the risks are being tackled and the inaccuracies are being removed and other organs that we have in the country of Ukraine are being held accountable. It's funded, it's the Ukrainian Security Service, the Beb and all the other law enforcement agencies. They're not going anywhere. This system makes it easier to determine one or the other criteria. My bill recommends that if the person who carries out this activity and falls under the signs during his time, he or she is engaged in the verification of information, the law enforcement authorities. They're not going anywhere. After completing the functions assigned to it, for a period of three years the person submits the complete report and everything else, as provided by law. After that, the very definition of RER disappears, leading as an ordinary citizen of Ukraine. According to the law I've been calling, the ordinary Ukrainian citizen, including you and I, is getting into the primary funding chain for 5,000 dollars. Dear Head, I ask you to take into account my revisions in numbers 16, 19 and 22, which limit the term to three years. I mean, that's enough time to make sure that the number of services involved, the risks, the inaccuracies, and the responsibility. Please vote in favour. If there is a term, then there will be both responsibility and more active work by law enforcement agencies. Thank you. Please place three readouts.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u57	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Please invite Olga Mikhaylovna from the committee to explain the situation. Please, Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich, my discussion with you has been going on for three years with regard to the status of the RER. With your rights, you want to make the RER situation in Ukraine even worse. I'll explain why. Because now you're R.E.R. and after 12 months from the date of completion of your activity, a risk-oriented approach is applied to you as well as to everyone. You propose to do so in three years. First. In no country except Russia, you may have read the Russian translation of the European Union directive, and you may not apply what you are proposing. The other one. You are in violation of our obligations to join the European Union and, in view of such adjustments, you are cancelling all Ukraine’s efforts to join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u59	Olga Mikhailovna, your only discussion is yours, but you're from the committee, a little closer to the committee's decision. Okay? Okay, okay, okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, there was no last name, kind of bad. Mr. previous reporter, if you don't mind the right to a lineup, please. Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting these amendments in turn, the author's position, you've heard the position. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the 16th Amendment of Mamka's authorship on the line. Please vote. [[11:23:06]] For 227 Decision taken. I'm making an amendment to 19 by Gregory Mamka. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:23:36]] For 239. Decision taken. And the final amendment of 22 by Gregory Mama. I'll put it to a vote, please. [[11:24:03]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. No one's going to insist on repairs anymore? Please, Smogluk, Vasilevska Smogluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u60	So, my friends, you just broke our European obligations. The other one. 105 of the amendment concerns the protection of the labour rights of oligarchs, which European Solidarity protects, with conflict of interest, since there is a potential person in this faction who can get up in the oligarch register. I propose not to support this because it does not apply a risk-oriented approach to persons who are in the oligarch register. This is the seventh commitment, delligarchisation, the seventh commitment to Ukraine’s accession to the European Union. You can now ignore this amendment (to be confirmed) in order not to satisfy the rights of oligarchs in Ukraine and ruin your work done last time in the adoption of the delligarchy law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u61	It's a replica, isn't it? They called it a faction, I understand. Please, who's going to report? Who's it gonna be? Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please have the right to repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u62	Dear Mrs. Olga, we had a discussion on all the points on the committee. You are now using the rostrum to protect the oligarchs you represent in the hall. You represent the oligarchs! And everyone knows that! And now you're trying to talk about us. Look in the mirror, as the Head of the Supreme Council spoke yesterday, and you will see your reflection.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, such a violent reaction. But 105 amendment, 105 amendment to the authorship of the People's Deputy Gerasimov. At the same time, Olga Mikhailovna Vasilevska-Smagluk demands. She's a committee member. Olga Mikhailn requires this decision to be confirmed, do I understand? Requires confirmation. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[11:26:59]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we move on to the adoption of the law as a whole? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (Laundering) of the Proceeds of Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction, on the Protection of Ukraine's Financial System from the State's Armed Aggression against Ukraine, and on the Adaptation of Legislation to Separate FATF Standards and the requirements of EU Directive 2018/843 (Registration number of this draft Law 8008). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:28:04]] For 316 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, one second. Now a few announcements from Alexander Sergiyovich, and then we take a break. And the questions from Elena Kostovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u64	An interfractional circuit assembly has been created. Head of Mezentsev Maria Sergiyevna’s Unification Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u65	Olena Kostvena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u66	My fellow Members, after such intense discussions today, I would like to announce to you the parliamentary questions that have been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's 14 of them. They are not to the President of Ukraine. To the organs of the Supreme Council - 1. The Cabinet of Ministers is 4. To the governing authorities of the state and local self-government authorities - 9. There are no enterprises, institutions, organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and form of ownership. So it's the MP's questions. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information and copies of documents on the financial and economic activities of the Umman City Council, its structural units and utilities. Eugenia Bragar to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the restoration of objects of the National University of Kiev named Taras Shevchenk damaged by rocket fire from the Russian Federation. Irina Friz to the Head of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible illegal actions by officials of the State Space Agency of Ukraine (National Space Agency of Ukraine) and the space industry, particularly in the implementation of the Libid and Cyclone-4 projects on providing information on specific issues of the work of the Interim Investigative Commission and reporting on the results of its activities. Andrija Boblach to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, on the need to conduct an official investigation into military service in connection with the command of 20 separate battalions of the special military assignment of the A4118 city of Kiev. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for providing information and copies of documents on the breeds that are on balance and in the use of the Umman City Council. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head to provide information on the possible closure of the Preschool School Centre of a combined nursery type No. 30 of the city of Umani: Gonti Street, 14, Uman City, Cherkas region, 20300. Dmitra Razumkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the supply of ammonia produced in the Russian Federation, Ukraine. Bogdan Torochti to the Chief of Intelligence of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine on issues of implementation by the Ukrainian intelligence authorities in the field of counter-intelligence. Bogdan Thorochti to the Head of the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service on specific issues of implementation by the Ukrainian intelligence authorities in the field of counterintelligence. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for providing information on the position and direct performance of the duties of the Umman City Head, Pledna Irina Grigorovna during the period 26. 10.2022 – 31.10.2022. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head to provide information on the possible closure of the Preschool School School School School of the combined type No. 8 city of Umani, 29th street of Grushewski, Uman city, Cherkas region. Groups of National Deputies (Staff, Batenko and others, only 5 deputies) to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the assignment of Mohonka I.O. The highest state record of "Heroy of Ukraine" (died). These are all the questions that have come to us from the National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-04-m0.u67	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Dear National Deputies! The agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension in advance. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We work together, we work to the full victory, and we work to the glory of Ukraine!
