ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, today the media office ends immediately after the meeting. So you can fast the materials there right after you finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we have not closed our plenary session. So today, according to the decree we have adopted, we continue the plenary session of the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in these difficult times for our country, great friends of the Ukrainian people are visiting Ukraine, highly respected foreign visitors. You know, I've turned to all the speakers of the parliaments of the world and invited them to come to Ukraine and see for themselves what's going on in our country. And the first bands, the first speakers to come to Ukraine during the war and share with us in the meeting of the Supreme Council. I invite you to the Chamber of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of the Honourable Mr. Milos Wystrciel. Welcome, Mr. Milos. [[Applause]] (Now they're coming, honored guests.) And I also invite the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the Honourable Mr. Tomas Grodzky. Please welcome your distinguished colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, on behalf of Parliament on these unbreakable days of fighting the brave Ukrainian people against criminal Russian aggression, let me thank you for your firm, consistent and decisive support for Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, our democratic European future. Dear colleagues, in good tradition, let's all open this meeting together, continue this meeting with the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 50th era of the heroic struggle of the Ukrainian people against full-scale Russian armed aggression. Ukrainian soldiers continue to destroy the enemy with misery. Unfortunately, however, not all our heroes and peaceful citizens are alive and well with us. As a result of a deliberate rocket strike by the Russian army at the Kramatorsk railway station, where thousands of peaceful Ukrainians were awaiting evacuation, 57 of our citizens were killed, 114 injured. Butch, Irpine, Gostomel, Borodjanka, where we were today with colleagues -- wonderful, comfortable, peaceful Ukrainian cities, yet they became known worldwide not by their cozy beauty, but by the mass atrocities of the Russian army, including murder, torture, robbery, rape. This is hard to imagine in the 21st century, but this is happening in our own eyes in the heart of the European continent. Dear colleagues, evil will certainly be punished. Therefore, I would like to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the innocently murdered by the Russian army of peaceful Ukrainian citizens and to the memory of our defending heroes who fought for an independent sovereign and democratic Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the speech of our friends of the distinguished masters of speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to invite to the floor the Head of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mr. Milos Wystrcila. Please, Mr. Milos.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished Polish friends of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! Last August, I was in Kiev with you, I was involved in opening up the Crimea Platform, which supported Ukraine's integrity and sovereignty and supported the return of the illegally annexed Crimea. At the time, I had the opportunity to speak here before the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then in my speech, I mentioned the 38th year and the Munich Treaty as a sad parallel between Czech and Ukrainian history, as a sad parallel between the Czech Sudets and the Ukrainian Crimea. I admit that I did not expect to be in the Ukrainian Parliament again within eight months of my speech and to say that the fate of the destroyed and killed cities of Buta, Irpine and Borodianka by the Gulf troops, their fates are very similar to that of the towns that were destroyed by Hitler’s troops, the towns of Ledice and the Lycas. Putin’s Russia began a barbaric and brutal war in its reckless, large - scale maren. The crimes committed by Russia to your people must not be forgotten, and those responsible must be punished in the hands of Putin and Lukashenko. [[Applause]] The suffering that your country is experiencing is enormous. However, heroism, your heroism, the heroism of the Ukrainian people, and the Ukrainian soldiers are also great. I mentioned the Munich Treaty, which, in Czechoslovakia at the time, gave us to Hitler without our participation. We don't have the right to allow a moment or a second for you Ukrainians to get into the same Munich situation. The efforts of dictators have never worked and will never work. We Czechs know that very well. Our attention and time are the only thing we can offer you. I am very glad that among the first to understand this was the Czech Prime Minister Peter Fiala, who, along with the Polish and Slovenian prime ministers, arrived in Kiev by mid - March. Today, along with Polish Marshal Tomasz Grodzsky and Polish senators, we have come as the highest representatives of the Supreme Chamber of our Czech Senate Parliament. I very much appreciate coming with you to support you, and the first deputy head of the Senate, Irgie Rużicka, and the head of the foreign committee of the Senate, Pavel Fischer, have also arrived. But you need it, and today, after what we've seen in your devastated cities, we now know much better, you need much more than just political visits. And we realize that. At the hot stage of the war, we can and must provide you with weapons and humanitarian assistance. Not only is it a gesture of support, but it is also an expression of faith that this war, which you have not chosen or provoked, but which you must wage, you will win in this war. Meanwhile, the Czechs opened their hearts and doors. We opened them to your countrymen, mothers, and children who had to leave their homes temporarily. Trust me, we try to do everything we can to enable them to lead a full and worthy life. This includes education for your children whom Putin is trying to take away the future. This includes work for parents. I am grateful to our Czech citizens who support the Ukrainian people. I am proud of our government and for our people, for the support they provide to Ukraine! I also thank the Czech volunteers who, with their arms in hand, became shoulder-to-back with the Ukrainian defenders. But it is not just about your support today. Our goal must be to have our citizens support Ukraine permanently. And in the European Union, unfortunately, there are voices of extremist and populist ideologies. Our task as democratic politicians and elected representatives is to understand the fears of our constituents and our peoples and to convince them that at home they should take care of the values that you are fighting for. It's our job. It's a big task. Because today you, Ukrainians, are now an example of how to live these values. You are the most prominent medium and defender of these values. I, and not just myself, realize that your people are fighting and dying for us, too, and for the ideas on which Europe built its prosperity. Once again, I bow to your pride, courage, and zeal. And thank you so much for that. When your President Vladimir Zelensky used the word "minister of the people" it was a political satire. But things are different today. Today, you are serving your people in the leadership of President Zelensky in a way that is to be admired. Thank you for that. Free, proud, zealous, wary, and I am confident that the victorious Ukraine will be an example forever for all who yearn for freedom and democracy. It will prove that this desire can be fulfilled if people believe in themselves if they do not give up if they do not bow down. The desire for freedom and faith in itself can also overcome the vast, greater forces of the enemy. Ukraine is a moral winner for me today. When your war is over, our common goal will also be to rebuild, in the ruined ruins, to rebuild a strong, free Ukraine. This is going to be an investment in our future together. When I tell you the future together, I mean a clear proposal for a full and full membership of Ukraine in the European Union. [[Applause]] Last week, it seems that we are one step closer to this goal, and the Czech Republic will support you in this. [[Applause]] What About the End? In the end, I would like to mention the words of two famous figures. One of our characters, Czech, second of all, your figure, Ukrainian. The first figure I'm talking about in the Czech Republic is Vaclav Havel, our first Czech president. And I will allow myself to rephrase his words and wish to you, to us all, that Ukrainian truth and love may prevail over Russian lies and hatred. [[Applause]] The second words I'd like to say, I'll try to say in Ukrainian, are the words of your great poet Taras Shevchenk, who wrote, "Our soul does not die, our will does not die." And we should keep that in mind. We're with you! Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] And I'm going to afford one more thing. The Czech Senate, head of the Czech Senate, can give a gold medal — the highest mark of the Czech Senate. I brought this silver medal, I brought it here to you, to Ukraine. And I wanted to. He decided that we would serve along with our colleagues, Rose and Fisher. And I would like to hand it to the proud Ukrainian people for their bravery. [[Applause]] And because you are, you are elected representatives of the proud Ukrainian people, so I will allow myself to symbolically transfer this medal to the hands of the Head of your Supreme Council, to the hands of Ruslan, my friend.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, on behalf of all the members of the Supreme Council, I can say: We serve the Ukrainian people, we thank the Czech people. [[Applause]] Let us once again thank Mr. Milos Sturdy for such a fine report. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased to invite you to the words of the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Mr. Tomas Grodzky. Please, Mr. Tomasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellows and fellow MPs, dear friends! [[Applause]] Dear Czech friends of Ukraine! I'll report in English, please forgive my mistakes. [[Applause]] I'm in charge of the Senate delegation. Along with us are the famous Senate Vice Marshal Gabriela Moravska-Stanecka. [[Applause]] Renowned Senate Vice Marshal Mr. Michal Kaminsky Great Friend of Ukraine, famous Senator Mr. Marcin Bosacki [[Applause]] [[Applause]] "Will there be a trial! Or there will be punishment! Kings, Kings on Earth? Will there be truth among mankind? They shall be, for the sun shall rise and the earth shall be burned in defiled." Taras Shevchenk's appeal in verse "Oh, people! The people of the unchallenged!" It is due today from the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament. We're not here for an empty effect, we urge you to put an end to the crimes of Russian invaders. The sight of the destroyed cities and villages reminds us of the Polish people, Warsaw, compared to the earth, by Hitler's command, the worst memories of the times we've talked about so many times, "never again." Ladies and gentlemen, the leader of Russia has repeatedly questioned the very existence of the Ukrainian people. He said in his great Russian chauvinism that Belarusians and Ukrainians are just Russians. As the Marshal of the Polish Senate, I would like to remind you that as early as the 14th century, Rich Pospolita recognized Ukrainian nationality as part of the Gaddaic Treaty. We were allies in 1920, side by side against Bolsheviks, and in 1991, Poland, as the world's first state, recognized Ukraine's independence. [[Applause]] We have lived together for a long time as two peoples in one state in good and bad times, and we give testimony to Ukrainian identity and identity, but Russian imperial chauvinism has led to crime -- genocide. I'm talking about this in a meaningful way because some people are very careful about whether Russian crimes in Mariupola, Butchi, Kharkiv and dozens of other cities are just war crimes or genocide. Ukrainian civilians are killed only because they are Ukrainians. If it is not genocide, what is genocide? [[Applause]] Such a crime cannot go unpunished sooner or later. I'm counting on it early. Killers, rapists, robbers, murderers must be punished. If we cannot punish Russian crimes, we will question all the achievements of our civilization. We need a new Nuremberg, we need a Ukrainian Simon Wizental, who will continuously track down criminals who are responsible for the genocide of the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] The International Criminal Court has already begun its work. Our shared responsibility is to ensure that none of the killers sleep peacefully. You have heard many times about the need for peace and redemption on the part of criminals. Even though our weapons as parliamentarians are a word, today, in the face of the aggressor’s arrogant claims that he will wage war until the end of free Ukraine. We must give up our words in behalf of our actions. And I'll do something else. Realistic politics today should be determined to provide weapons for the warring Ukraine. [[Applause]] Russia on your country's lands is at war with essentially all the democratic world. The fighting soldiers of Ukraine are fighting today, as we spoke many times in Poland for your freedom and our freedom. The national interest of the Poles, the Germans, the English and the rest of the free world is to give Ukraine everything it takes to defeat the aggressor as soon as possible. Russia only understands the language of power, which was proved by the great American President Ronald Reagan, who contributed greatly to the collapse of communism and the Soviet Union. The hypocrisy of those politicians who are trying to stop the supply of weapons that speak of defence weapons is not just cowardice, it's a serious mistake. If we don't stop the aggressor on Dniper and Booze, tomorrow and tomorrow we'll see them on Wisla, the Danube, the Rhine or beyond. [[Applause]] Ukraine today is the forerunner of the West. And I promise that as parliamentarians, as representatives of a democratic Europe, we will do everything we can to ensure that the Ukrainian forces are properly armed and to drive the enemy to his Eurasian port. [[Applause]] Today, Ukrainians sign their own blood the second time since Maidan, signing the European Declaration. This is a blood signature that we do not have the right to weigh lightly. On behalf of the Polish Senate, I can assure you that we will fight for Ukraine to be in the family of the peoples of the European Union as soon as possible. Dear friends, here in Kiev, today the heart of Europe is beating. Ukraine is already in a united Europe. Our responsibility is to restore Ukraine. As the enemy flees, he leaves behind destruction. Together we will restore what has been destroyed by the Moscows, even more modern and beautiful than it was. [[Applause]] So Ukraine is also a hope for the depressed Belarusians and for those Russians who do not want to suffer from the trampoline dictatorship. By helping to restore Ukraine, we are investing in the great vision of a single Europe. Without Ukraine, Europe would have been deprived of one lung. The European Union needs to find the funds to turn the roads of Russian gastropods into modern highways, and the destruction of factories and buildings into modern green European standards. We will also make sure that ships can safely dock at Odessa and other Ukrainian ports. Enough lawlessness and state piracy cultivated by the Russian fleet! [[Applause]] The tasks facing the free world are a challenge, but also a chance for a new momentum for development. Perhaps in peace and prosperity we have become sluggish. Ukraine has cured us from this illusion of the end of history. But I want to repeat: our future today is in the hands of heroic soldiers, defenders of Ukraine. The economic sanctions, the supply of arms, the money to rebuild Ukraine -- yes, it's important, but a hundred times more important are the efforts and blood of Ukraine's defenders. [[Applause]] Dear friends, allow me to address the prophet of the Ukrainian people again at the end, recalling the passage from the "Promise" of Taras Shevchenk. "Hide and rise, break the bonds and tread the will of the enemy with evil blood." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u6	Danko Bardzo, Marshal, your Ukrainian is quite perfect. Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the foreign guests for participating in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council and for the firm and unbreakable support of Ukraine. It is good to know that in these difficult times such friendly countries are with us. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issues that we have planned. First of all, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Elizabeth Petrova Bogicka ("Sergeer of the People") and Maksim Sergiyyovich Zujov ("Sergeer of the People"). Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's get to work. A list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board is given to you. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. Dear colleagues, the signal vote, please ask the people's deputies to take part in it and press the Ze green button. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[16:17:09]] 347 national deputies pressed the button. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the first question we have is the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian national deputy. Honourable National Deputies, on April 7, 2022, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian People's Deputies, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's National Deputies on July 21, 2019, in the state-wide Plenipotentiary constituency of Bozkova Alexander Valeriyovich, who is included in the electoral list of the political party "Slut of the People". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Bozków Alexander Valeriyovich, is invited. Please, Alexandre Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u7	Dear National Deputies! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u8	Thank you. Sign it, pass it to me. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed that the first question of question 7276 is that we are looking at a procedure of short two-pronged performances from each factions and group, and so on, as we have worked with you. So, dear fellows, we are now considering Bill 7276. For the sake of clarity of procedure, I ask, honourable Members, to vote in favour of this issue for a reduced procedure. [[16:19:48]] For 322 Let us turn to this question. Yes, since Alexander Sergiyovich has gone to see the guests again, I invite myself to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the commission of the Russian Federation genocide in Ukraine (registration number 7276). During this difficult time when the struggle of the Ukrainian people with the Russian Federation’s armed aggression continues, there is an increasing number of violent thefts that should be properly evaluated. The policy of the Russian Federation, the consistency and systemality of its implementation are aimed at the mass destruction of the population of Ukraine, the violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and the elimination of Ukraine's national statehood. The aim of the leadership of the Russian Federation is to destroy Ukrainian patriots, Ukrainians, Ukrainian cultures, all that forms the identity of the Ukrainian people. Today, with full confidence, the actions of the Russian Federation’s armed forces are not merely a crime of aggression but are aimed at the systematic and consistent destruction of the Ukrainian people, their identity and the denial of their right to self-determination and their own development. This requires immediate recognition of the actions carried out by the Russian Federation Armed Forces during the final phase of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, which began on February 24, 22, with the genocide of the Ukrainian people. So, dear colleagues, I believe that the adoption of the project will be the first step towards uncovering the true intentions of the Russian Federation and its action towards the destruction of the Ukrainian people during the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, and bringing this information to the international community with the aim of initiating the engagement of all those responsible. In view of the above, please support and vote on the draft Decree 7276. Thank you for your attention. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed on each faction for two minutes. I propose to go as in the concordant, "Slut of the People" by Schuljak Olenna Alexiyevna. Please. And immediately, give me the information. Please, Olena Alexiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, in the 20th century, totalitarian dictatorships caused three global tragedies in Ukraine: the Holocaust, the Holocaust, and Chernobyl. It would seem that mankind has drawn the right conclusions from these tragedies and should have done everything possible to ensure that such tragedies never happen again in history. But in the 21st century, a new totalitarian dictatorship was able to repeat and where to overcome the horrors of the recent past. Putinian Russia did not kill people because they were enemies, not because of their ethnic origin or their language of communication, because they were Ukrainian citizens, because they simply lived here on their land, because they simply lived. If the world today does not confess to crimes in Butch, Borodjanec, Irpen, Harkov, Mariupoli, in other cities by genocide, the Travelling Group will really be able to repeat them on the streets of European cities and towns -- everywhere the impunity of crimes against life will go. Today we must take the first step towards recognition in the world of the genocide of Ukrainians, which is happening here and now. Today, we must all support the draft of the Declaration on the Russian Federation of Genocide in Ukraine. Under the marasmatic denunciation of Ukraine, declared by Russia, the real motive behind this war is the destruction of the Ukrainian people, their identity, the deprivation of the right to development. Every day Russian soldiers kill, rape, mutilate peaceful Ukrainians, whether they are a child, a woman, or an elderly person. That is why Russia today cannot defeat Ukraine, not conquer our nation, and is faced with defeat in all directions and then with responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine divided life into pre and after. By February 24, we could argue, be political opponents, criticize each other. After, we were united into a 40 million-dollar army where everyone on their fronts is defending Ukraine from evil. I have always been a proponent of compromises, believing that truth is born in a dispute, that the truth should be sought in the middle by listening to both sides. Russia’s genocide against the Ukrainian people has turned everything black and white. There is no more "but" -- there is light and darkness, there is good and there is evil. This war created an abyss between us and Russia. As a member of one of the territorial defence units, I saw with my own eyes the abuses that the Russians had made against the Ukrainians: killing, raping, kidnapping, mistreatment for being Ukrainian. Convinced, evil must be punished. Everyone has to be held accountable. And I'm sure we'll do it, and no one who's risked evil for the Ukrainian will be unpunished. We support this decision, the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we are confident that we will bring every criminal to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u14	Please, from the "European Solidarity" faction, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u15	"This is because you are the thugs" -- this is what you saw in the Butchi battle of our battalion, which was one of the first to enter Butch and saw the crimes of the Russians. There were raped and murdered women, raped and murdered children, boys and girls, with their hands tied after the tortures they had burned. One of the inscriptions that impressed me most was a column that was shot with the sign "Children," where there were women and children. They did not pose a military threat. They were killed only because they were Ukrainian. And that's genocide. You and I have to put together a list of Butchi, where everyone should be, from Putin to Kadir and Propaganda. And each of them has to be put behind bars by a court order. Your Honor, we're not Russia. And the war has moved Ukraine to the European Union. The European Union is freedom, freedom and democracy. And we need to be careful, because in the European Union, channels don't close. We need to preserve the unity that we have surprised the world, and we will defeat Putin. And now I want to welcome everyone to Neptune Day. Russian Moscow is down, we're going to win. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u16	Please welcome to the word of Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u17	When last century the Russian Stalin regime began the destruction of millions of Ukrainians during the Holocaust, it was the first step towards destroying Ukrainian history, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture and Ukraine as a nation. When the Nazis in Germany came to power in 1933, they continued Stalin’s bloody work. And we thought that was what was left in the last century. Unfortunately, the beginning of the 21st century will now be the beginning of the massacre in Butchi, Gostomel, Kharkiv, Mariupoli and in many, many, many other cities and villages. This is a targeted campaign by Fascist Putin after the destruction of Ukraine, after the destruction of the Ukrainian nation, and there can be no forgiveness. Just as in 1995 after the NATO Srebrenica massacre found forces to stop bloody dictator Milosevich, I am convinced that the world community and NATO countries will find the power to stop the bloody dictator Putin, who must sit first, but not last, on the bench of the defendants for the crimes he committed against the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u18	Heroim Slava! The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leonidni Klimenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today, 50 days of resistance by the Armed Forces and the Ukrainians to the Russian invaders who cynically attacked our country, 50 days of fighting, our struggle to be independent and live on our land, 50 days of genocide against the Ukrainian people by Russia. For decades, they had prepared genocide, the Kremlin’s top. They were not even ashamed to talk about it in open articles or in open conversations, or even in public space in international areas. Russian leadership, Putin, has questioned the legitimacy of Ukrainian statehood for many years. In 2008, at the NATO summit, he publicly stated that Ukraine was a complex state entity, a third of Ukrainians were ethnic Russians, and Russia had its own interests in Ukraine. Putin then stated that if Ukraine joined NATO, Ukraine could cease to exist. The genocide of the Ukrainian people began not today and not on February 24, it began in 2014 with the annexation of our Crimea and Donbass territories, where they were virtually destroyed, Ukrainian culture is being destroyed until now, where Crimean Tatar activists are being exported, and they are now the political prisoners of the Kremlin. In 50 days of war, we saw how the Russian army, which was once the second army of the world, used to be a commonwealth of cowards, rapists and Marauders, this army massacres, rapes, tortures, and tortures unarmed Ukrainians. Mariupol, one of the most Russian - speaking cities in Ukraine, became a brotherly tomb for 22 Ukrainians today. And this is an undeniable confirmation of the planned genocide against the Ukrainians. Burn all of you in hell! Glory to Ukraine and glory to the Armed Forces of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u20	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, from Victor Vasilovich Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u21	Dear Ukrainians, 50 days of our glorious Ukrainian army, along with all the Ukrainian people, are fighting this invader, fighting this aggressor who has deliberately entered the country and is consciously trying to destroy our country. For the first couple of weeks, the whole of Europe, the whole world thought it was a little operation again, waiting for some kind of twist, thinking that sanctions were going to be scary and so forth, but then gradually began to realize that our nation has understood for hundreds of centuries, that our nation understands hundreds of years and knows that Ukraine must fight for its freedom and independence. And unfortunately, we have a neighbor who, regardless of what seems to be a normal life, the wealth of the country, is trying to make sure that the neighbors are destroyed, hungry and wanted to be killed. I was personally in Kiev all these 50 days, I saw Kiev's defense from Stoyanka to Irpen, I was in all the areas, I went to Irpine alone, and I saw what was happening there. It was among those who fell into these towns in the early days. It wasn't just genocide, it was true today that it could be genocide if it wasn't genocide? How can it be understood that when the Russian military opened the shells and shot the mother and the child, they closed and moved on? It is understandable that when peaceful citizens were shot in kindergartens, tanks were moved in the streets, cars were moved, corpses were moved, and they were not even cleaned. It's genocide! This is the deliberate destruction of the Ukrainian nation. This is the destruction of our cities: Kharkiv, Butch, Hostomel, Chernigu, Sumi and other cities of Ukraine that are trying to destroy. That's genocide.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u22	Thank you. And please, Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, and this is the final act now. Then we go ahead with the vote in favour of this decree, as well as the vote in favour of other draft laws that are being tabled today. So I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, because after this speech, we're going to the vote. I give the floor to Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u23	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in this room, everyone is convinced that not only war is going on in Ukraine, but genocide that Russia is committing against our people is against the Ukrainian people. And the entire civilized world, including the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, other international organizations, as well as governments and parliaments of foreign nations, should make this clear. The Russian army deliberately destroys the Ukrainian peace population, not just warring with our military. Torture and rape, which includes our children, the deliberate bombing of civilians with hundreds of victims, the total destruction of thousands of cities, the humanitarian disaster in occupied areas, the illegal deportation of civilians -- all of this can be long-term enumerated, and all of this is genocide against Ukrainians. Moreover, these crimes of the Russian army were sanctioned at the state level. Russia deliberately denies the existence of Ukraine and our people as such, denies our right to self-determination and has set a goal to destroy Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. So it's very important that the entire civilized world admits that it's genocide that's happening in our country. And for this reason it is impossible to select softer terms, since it is disrespectful of the memory of thousands of innocently murdered Ukrainians, including Ukrainian children. The decree was signed by nearly 200 national deputies. And our goal is for the position of the Ukrainian Parliament to divide the entire civilized world. We vote in favour of the decree. Praise our Armed Forces and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we're moving to a vote. Dear colleagues, this is a very important decision, and I ask the national deputies to take their seats. I propose to include in the agenda and to adopt in general, taking into account the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Russian Federation for Genocide in Ukraine (registration number 7276). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:39:07]] For 363 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I ask the apparatus to prepare everything so that I can do everything in this decision and send both Ukrainian and English versions of this decision. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on, next. Then, as agreed, we have a number, a name, and a vote. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies not to depart, and there will be no further discussion. Order 7281 is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Olympic Committee and the governing bodies of the international sports federations on the recommendation to prohibit the participation of Russian Federation and Republic of Belarus athletes in international competitions and the exclusion of citizens of the Russian Federation, Republic of Belarus from the governing bodies of these organizations. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to the regulation (registration number 7281). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:40:41]] For 354 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. The next draft of Decree 7266 is the draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the value of freedom of speech, the guarantee of the activities of journalists and the media during the war. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include in the agenda of the day's session and to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Decree 7266. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:41:30.]] For 348 Decision taken. The next bill is draft Law 7244. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 7244. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:42:16]] For 359 Decision taken. The next bill, 7246, is a draft law amending section VI, paragraph 3-8, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments (the registration number of Bill 7246). Dear colleagues, please vote. 7246, remember. [[16:43:04]] For 294 Decision taken. The next bill, 7201, is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of social services in the event of a state of emergency or war in Ukraine. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7201. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:43:50]] For 331 Decision taken. Next Bill 7240, 7240-1. Dear colleagues, this is going to be an alternative, because this is a committee proposal. That's why I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day session and to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 7240-1 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Intelligence Act. Once again, I ask you to put the proposal into the agenda and accept it as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments 7240-1. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:44:52]] For 352 Decision taken. The following Bill 6163, the draft Act amending certain laws on the subject. I'm sorry, 6163: the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to prevent threats to national security -- the deprivation of State rewards. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. We only vote on the basis of Bill 6163. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[16:45:59]] For 362 Decision taken. The next bill, 7272, is a draft law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization, on suspension from military service during the mobilization of certain categories of citizens. The proposal is made for the committee to include in the agenda of the day session and to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7272. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:46:44]] For-360 Decision taken. The next bill, 7242, is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on specific issues of the conduct of military service by foreigners and non-citizens. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill number 7242. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:47:28]] For three hundred Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues, we are moving on to a vote in favour of the President of Ukraine's proposals on some of the bills. First of all, we have 7179 proposals from the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of the Government of Ukraine and Officials. I inform you that three proposals have been made by the President of Ukraine under this bill. So I'm going to put in a turn: first the proposals, then the bill in general, taking into account the proposals. Bill 7179. Dear colleagues, I'm going to make my first proposal to the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you to back me up. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the first proposal for Bill 7179. Please vote. [[16:48:31]] For 311 The first offer is included. I'm making a second proposal from the President of Ukraine regarding Bill 7179. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:48:56]] For 313 Decision taken. The offer is included. I'm making a third proposal from the President of Ukraine regarding Bill 7179. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:49:19]] For 316 Dear colleagues, I now make a proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of the Government of Ukraine and Officials (registration No. 7179). People's deputies, please vote. [[16:49:51]] For 303 Decision taken. The law was passed with the President's proposals. Let's move on. The next bill, these are also the President's proposals, 7186. We've got two proposals from the President. I also put them in turn and then the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I am submitting the President of Ukraine's first proposal to the Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Improving Responsibility for Cooperation and the Specificities of Precautionary Action for Crime against the Fundamentals of National and Public Security. President's first proposal. Please vote. [[16:50:45.]] For three hundred Decision taken. I'm putting the President of Ukraine's second proposal to Bill 7186. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:51:09]] For 351 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, of the Act on the Amendment of the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on improving responsibility for collaborative activities and the specificities of the precautionary measures for committing crimes against the foundations of national and public security (registration No. 7186). People's deputies, please vote. [[16:51:50]] For three hundred Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill, number 7245, is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to 7245. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:52:30.]] For 353 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 7183, is a draft Ukrainian law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve the order of criminal conduct under conditions of military, state of emergency. It's a second reading. That's why I'm proposing to accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill 7183. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:53:13]] For 326 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 4265. This is a draft of the Law on the National Registration of Human Genome Information. I'm making an offer to accept as a basis, only on the basis of it is accepted, dear colleagues. Bill 4265. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:53:53]] For 298 Decision taken. Next bill, 5158. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the selection and preparation of prosecutors. It's a second reading. I propose a second reading and, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 5158. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[16:54:31]] For 351 Decision taken. Next bill, 7231. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reintegration and restoration of children's rights. I propose to include this bill in the agenda of the day and to adopt it as a basis only, 7231. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:55:12]] For 355 Decision taken. Next Bill 7087. This is a draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of the functions of State authorities and local self - government authorities for the protection of children’s rights in connection with the creation of the Ukrainian State Service for Children. I'm proposing to put this bill into the agenda and accept it as a basis. 7087. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:55:58]] For three hundred Decision taken. Next bill, 7214. This is a draft law banning the propaganda of the Russian neo-Nazi totalitarian regime, an act of aggression against Ukraine by the Russian Federation as a terrorist state, a symbolism used by the military and other military formations of the Russian Federation in the war against Ukraine. It's a second reading. That's why I'm proposing to accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Bill 7214. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:56:47]] For 354 Decision taken. Next bill 7200. This is the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 30-1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act on the Representation of Some Children in the State of War in Ukraine. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to take the basis, on the basis only, of colleagues, and to shorten the half-time supply of proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading (7,200). Ready, fellows of honor? Please vote. [[16:57:40]] For 358 Decision taken. Next, Bill 6354. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on complete general secondary education to expand the possibilities for transforming the educational network and protecting the rights of participants in the educational process. This is a second reading, so I'm proposing to accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 6354. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[16:58:39]] For 341 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. And the last, but legislative initiative, but still voting will be, the legislative final initiative is Law 5610. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for exemption from taxes on added value transactions from the transplantation of anatomical materials to humans). I propose to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 5610. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:59:27]] For 343 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a question on the appointment of the R.O.S. Sagittarius. Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine. I'm sorry, first of all, Alexander Sergiyovich, the bill announcement, and we're still going to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council sign the laws that have been adopted today without delay, but only those that are generally accepted and, of course, after appropriate technical and legal adjustments have been made, and immediately send the President of Ukraine for signature. Please vote. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[17:00:28]] For 343 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u26	Thank you, colleagues. And we have one more question, this is the question of the appointment of the R.O.S. Sagittarius. Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary factions of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council the appointment of Ruslan Alexanderovich as Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we're voting right now, right? Therefore, honourable national deputies, let us move on to making a decision. In accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal for the appointment of Ruslan Alexandrovich Sagittarius as Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:01:48]] For 285 Decision taken. I'd like a profile committee, please. Please don't break up, dear fellows, don't break up. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision that we have made with the Apparatus. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment before his appointment, take an oath at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine Shooter Ruslan Aleksandrovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u27	I, Sagittarius Ruslan Aleksandrovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. 14.04.2022. It's a signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, some other announcements. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I've never done an announcement like that before, of course, during a selfie. We have two. Three IFF announcements and two important announcements. Thus, a number of interfractional MPs have been created according to article 60 prime. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. The Interfractional Union of Maritime and River Transport of Ukraine, led by Tishchenko Mikolaajovich. Alliance of Ukraine-Britanya-Poland, an interfractional MP, is headed by Tishchenko Mikolayovich. The Interfractional MP’s Information Front, led by Beggle Marian Volodymyrna. There are also statements of withdrawal from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." In accordance with article 60 of the Rules, according to the application, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Isainek Dmitry Valeriyovich, from the political platform. The opposition platform for life. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules, according to the application, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Burmić Anatolia Petrovich from the political party's deputy faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". Next announcement, it also applies to the internal affairs of the faction. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, as well as with the protocol of the parliamentary factions of the political platform. On March 24th, the opposition platform for life announced the recall of the Ukrainian national deputy Rabbinovich Vadim Zinoviovich of the post of co-chair of the political party 'Oppositional Platform for Life' and the election of the head of this faction of the national deputy Boyko Jurija Anatoliyovich. And the final announcement. According to Presidential Decree No. 153/2022 of 19 March 2022 on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 18 March 2022 on the suspension of the activities of individual political parties and on the basis of articles 78, 58, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the suspension of the activities in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Responsive Platform for Life" with the simultaneous suspension of the rights of this parliamentary faction, as provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the relevant regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-14-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the questions that were scheduled for adoption today are under consideration. Thank you all for your fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of our next meeting in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. With us is the truth, God is with us! Together to victory! And glory to Ukraine!
