ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary meeting, I would like to stress the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the non-proliferation of information regarding the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a single plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposals of the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good parliamentary tradition, let's start with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, it lasts the eighth month of large-scale military aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine. The Aggressor State is in grave violation of international law every day, terrorizing the civilized world with threats to the use of nuclear weapons, which once again confirms the urgent need to exclude it from the UN Security Council, to maximize sanctions pressure on it and its global isolation. The Ukrainian people do not succumb to the blackmail of terrorists. Ukraine’s defence forces have successfully moved forward, clearing its home land from Russian invaders. Sadly, in the war of bloodshed, our warriors, our compatriots, are killed. So I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the defenders and protectors who have fallen into battle for Ukraine and of all the peaceful citizens who have died as a result of the aggression of the terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Brief information, respected colleagues. I want to inform you that on October 6 and 7, in the capital of the Republic of Indonesia, Jakarta is holding the Parliamentary Summit of the Great Twenties, and the distinguished Vice-Spore Elena Constantine Kondratjuk has led the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at this important summit. At the Olena Kostovna summit, the Ukrainian Parliament is well represented, strongly defending the position of Ukraine and its interests in the international arena. Yesterday, we witnessed a strong public talk by Mrs. Helena, who in turn opened the world’s eyes to Russia’s criminal actions in Ukraine. Let's thank her with applause, support this summit. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, honourable national deputies propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the daytime voting. People's deputies, please take part in the signal vote and press the "Z" green button. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the signal vote. Colleagues, signal vote. Please be prepared. Dear colleagues, we begin the signal vote. [[10:10:10]] For 178. Today our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Alexander Ivanovich Kovalov, are celebrating their birthday. Let's welcome him. Strong health, inspiration, new achievements to win. Before I begin my consideration of the issues of order of the day, I reiterate my call to the national MPs, representatives of the government with the call to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information on the progress of the plenary session of earlier decisions in Parliament than 30 minutes after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues to be considered today has been given to you, so we are moving on to the issues of the agenda. Let's start with the first one. You have three rulings, so-called blocking orders: 3663-P, 3663-P1, 3663-P2. I'm reporting that they're looking at a reduced procedure without a vote, so we're going to look at it, we're always looking at it together. I'm inviting you. Are there representatives who will represent these decrees? National Deputy Yvchenko. Please make your decision. 3663-P. As we always do, make decisions first, then we discuss them together, and we make decisions. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u2	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you and I made a clear decision in the 14th year on Ukraine's move to the European Union. And the social insurance funds that were created back in the last century in the European Union are a model of Germany. Funds with the same leadership as independent social insurance funds exist in countries such as Denmark, Sweden, and many. Except Germany, and in many other European countries. Instead, the model that was offered directly in this room was approved in Putinim's Orc, who cancelled the social insurance funds, which joined the respective funds in the Pension Fund, which was completely unable to make the independence of such social insurance funds in his country. I understand when we do this for people. But the people who today will benefit from the corresponding social benefits of the Social Insurance Fund, these people will not get proper attention in a large basket called the Pension Fund. This law was neither supported by the Federation of Employers. This law was neither supported by the professions of Ukraine. That's why Fatherland didn't vote. And, fellows, I do propose that you look at the direction that Papiev proposed to you from the OPCW and directly the head of the committee. It's not a movement to Europe, it's now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Please welcome the author of another ruling blocking Julius Volodymyrný Timoshenko. Julia Volodymyrna. You don't? Well, here we go, we won't wait. Please, then, the author of another decree by Míb Victoria Alexandrovna, a national MP. Please, Victoria Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! You know, I'm not gonna be speaking to Victoria Greeb today. I'm just going to read you a letter from the Association of Disabled Workers, Victims and Families who died in Ukraine's production. Please, if you do not want to listen to the deputies, do not listen, but listen to the people who have chosen you. Your attention, Your Honor. We who have worked in firms with heavy working conditions for 20, 30, 40 years have given up our health, earned occupational diseases, or been disabled in manufacturing, against this bill because it contradicts a series of legislative acts, and destroys the existing social insurance system. The abolition of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund by joining the Ukrainian Pension Fund is the abolition of the principles of self-government, the social partnership for social insurance management. Let us draw your attention to the fact that some of the provisions of the new law call into question the conformity of constitutional regulations that prevent the adoption of new laws or the amendment of existing laws from narrowing the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. Dear colleagues, I still ask you today on behalf of those who are truly disabled today, some families have lost their people.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. We have completed reports from the authors of these decrees. I invite you to the word of Calchenka. From the place, please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable members of the people, the regulatory committee at its meeting has considered draft regulations 3663-P, 3663-P1 and 3663-P2. As a result of these draft regulations, the Regulatory Committee recommends that the Supreme Council be determined by voting on their adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to the discussion of these three decrees. And while you're writing down, I'm informing you that there's a delegation of the Bundestag in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine led by the head of the Bundestag Committee on Defence Marie-Agnes Strike-Zimmerman. Let us applaud our distinguished colleagues from Germany. [[Applause]] Thank you. Please, Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Sergio Calchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u9	Sergei Vitaliovich Calchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Sergio Calchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u11	Sergei Calchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u12	Please determine how to vote on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. I, in particular, call on a faction colleague and at the very least to abstain from voting for these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u13	Please, Maxim Vitaliovich Saurasov, faction of European Solidarity. Savrasov. Oh, no? Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u14	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. But first, let me say a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u15	[[Presentation in a Foreign Language]] Please continue in English, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u16	Of course I do. Yet, I think it was very important that we go to our German colleagues and say that today is the most important thing for us. Leopard tanks are the friendship of Ukraine and Germany, which we look forward to. And I think that's exactly what everyone's supporting. Colleagues, of course, our faction did not vote in favour of these laws, and we support the fact that we need to continue to develop social protection issues. And that's not the way we're now on this path, and what our colleagues are offering us, we need to move another way. Therefore, of course, we will support the vote on these decrees in order to review the decisions that have been taken. So, my friends, we urge you, because today the issue of social protection is very urgent. You understand the state of the citizens of Ukraine today, taking into account the extreme war we are going through. Yeah, it's very difficult for us, including economically and budgetaryly, to pull it out. But friends that I can tell you exactly today, our partners like Germany are helping us to move the country even in such difficult conditions, and with adequate financial support, we will be able to provide social protection to our citizens. So I urge you to strengthen social security for the Ukrainians, not even to weaken them under excessive conditions of war. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u17	Heroic glory! Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, "Platform for Life and Peace" group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, our group, after consulting, decided to support the relevant draft decision. Today is a very stressful day’s order, and it is desirable to move on to other issues as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u20	I was happy to vote in favour of this bill. I think we need to clean up this socialism as quickly as possible. I am happy to vote against all the decrees. Please proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, and one more minute, National Deputy Wolintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention. It's an adventure of age to eliminate the Social Insurance Fund. Fatherland will submit to the Constitutional Court. We're going to win this decision. The self-sustaining Social Insurance Fund cannot be eliminated. The employers disagreed, the unions disagreed, the insured people disagree. The pension fund didn't agree, the Social Insurance Fund didn't agree. And in this case, the Social Insurance Fund is eliminated and joined the Pension Fund, and then, at the second stage, the solidarity system will be eliminated, and people will be out of retirement, even those now 35 years of age. Please block this bill and support our ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. So now I'm going to make these decisions in turn. You've heard the position of your colleagues. So I'm going to make an offer. Please, check it out. Shahov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u24	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I have met with the heads of the unions, with the working groups, and I fully support Michael Wolinz today, I support Victoria Greeb on these orders that we must immediately block the mess that happens during the war. Millions of tragedies, hundreds of thousands of people killed, are now plagued by 13 million people throughout the world. What are we talking about today, social insurance to eliminate? Billions of people's workers will be licked in their pockets again? I ask everyone today to support these rulings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, these regulations have already been thoroughly discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. I'll bet the vote on it. I propose to adopt a whole draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 21 September 2022 on the adoption of the whole draft Ukrainian Act amending the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine (registration number 3663) (from 15.06). 2020). The number of this Order 3663-P. Please vote. [[10:24:57]] For-59 It's a non-adopted decision. The decision is not taken. Next Order 3663-P1. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine (No. 3663) (since 15.06. 2020). I'm proposing to accept this Order in total 3663-P1. Please identify and vote. [[10:25:41]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next Order 3663-P2. This is a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 21 September 2022 on the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine. The number of this regulation 3663-P2. I offer to accept this decision as a whole. Please vote. [[10:26:24]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, all these decrees are not accepted, they are rejected. So we can unlock the laws. Another Blocking Order 6067-P. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 21.09.2022 on the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill by Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on employment reform, social insurance for unemployment, promoting productive employment for the population, including young people, and introducing new active labour market programmes. Dear colleagues, I bet. This provision is being considered in accordance with part nine of article 48 of the Rules, so we will proceed immediately to the discussion. I invite the author of the ruling of the People's Deputy Volinz Mikhail Yakovitch to present this blocking decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, Statestat shows that 300,000 unemployed people are registered in Ukraine. You know how difficult it is to register. But we know with you that there are 5 million unemployed in Ukraine. And this is primarily the cause of such high unemployment and job losses. But what I'm saying is that the drafters of the bill have made a substantial provision to cut the benefits for people who need the help of the state today, from each and every one of us. And in this case, parliament has no right, no moral right now to take away the last hope, the last aid. See what's proposed here. Citizens who can't afford a full package of documents, and this is about refugees, a full package of documents, they don't have the right to help. They're unemployed, they've lost their housing, they've lost their documents, they've lost their family, they've got nowhere to live -- they can't be accounted for. And you know how hard it is to prepare these documents right now. Why would I write a standard like that? Or the next one. There is an increase in insurance from six to seven months. So if a person is unemployed, they increase their insurance. Or the next one. It is predicted that the staff member who has the right to adequate assistance is to be increased from 7 years old to 18 years old, and a special scale is introduced, differentiated. We've been able to differentiate this issue. And so in every position. I'm asking you very much, dear fellows, let's show compassion, let's not be thoughtless about pressing buttons, let's not take such a sin. It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u28	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee at its meeting considered draft Decree 6067-P and, following consideration of this draft regulation, recommends that Parliament be determined by voting on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since the procedure has been shortened, I ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition so that we can discuss this decision. Please. The word is given to Vadim Eugenovich Ivchenka, the faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u30	Please pass the word to your colleague Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u31	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u32	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the honourable colleagues, we really need to reform the employment system in Ukraine, but whether in this way, there is definitely a big question. Unfortunately, in the Social Policy Committee, we didn't find common ground, and that version of the bill that went through the second reading is clearly not perfect. He will not serve to protect those who have temporarily lost their jobs. It's in this bill that narrows down the rights to support those people who have lost their jobs, especially young professionals, because they're still getting an internship when they can get help. The same is true of those who are well - trained but who have lost their jobs for various reasons. There is no social support, and they will reduce the amount of aid when unemployment is temporarily lost. It seems to us that when the government initiated such a bill, it would still have to go the other way. Finally, we need to approve a new job creation program, and yet we need to guarantee the first job for young professionals who are done. They gained the skills of the worker, and those who received higher education. As a result, the "Paternity" faction initiated the decision by blocking it because the Rules had been violated during the second reading. And we ask you to support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u33	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u34	For Europeanism, as the venerable Head spoke yesterday, and against the remnants of socialism. So against that determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u36	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Of course, we must keep the Rules always in everything. And the issue of social guarantees, I repeat, is very important. That is why we support the consideration of this decree. But now I also want to say something very important. You know, in the last days, there have been constant attacks: Zaporozhye, Mikolai, Odessa, under Kiev. The Iranian drones that attack, the Shahes, our state and our people. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that not only the free world is being united but the slave world is being united. And these bastards are helping, the tyrant Putin's aggressor today, too, Iran. And we're silent, we're not supporting democratic protests in Iran. And we have to support when we're being killed by Iranian drones. And other countries of the slave world. And Ukraine does not vote in favour of the Uighur situation resolution, and I can't understand it. We are a free world, we are a democratic world, we are an avant-garde of the free world, and we must always be in those positions. These are principles, you can't say to others: look at the genocide of the Ukrainians and protect us from the Russians, and on the other hand, close our eyes to the genocide of other peoples in other countries, and pretend that it's not about us, we have multi vectorism. You can't do that. The free world is our future, it's our life. The slave world is killing us, today Russian missiles, Iranian drones, North Korean some, sorry, shit they're sending to kill us. And we have from the territory of Belarus Lukashenko, we have not yet broken up diplomatic relations with the Lukashenko regime. What are we waiting for? Why are we not cooperating with the Belarusian opposition? Friends, we are a free world, we must act accordingly, and then there will be respect for us all over the world. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u37	Please, the final word is Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović. Then we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u38	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, certainly, the issue of job reform, unemployment insurance and employment productivity promotion, including young people, and the introduction of new active labour market programmes, is relevant, even though we have an official unemployment rate increase from 10.6 per cent at the end of the previous year to 35 per cent this year, according to the National Bank of Ukraine estimates, i.e. one third of the population of Ukraine. This is the first moment. One second. What's also the scary number that we have today is the decline in the number of payers of the single social contribution and the ratio to the number of retirees, i.e. this coefficient has fallen from 1 to 0.8 percent today, i.e. the number of payers of the only social contribution is lower than those who need to be paid in the next pension. So all of these things had to be taken into account in the government bill, in fact, in order to decide and implement a comprehensive employment incentive programme in Ukraine against this unemployment -- 35 percent today, which is the highest rate in Europe and one of the highest in the world. The next point that's out of the question, what's also necessary is somehow to count in the employment system, is today's labour migration, the movement of internally displaced persons, these are also the challenges that are today, and we have to count these figures when we do the right and the budget. This is the case with the exit of the working population. And the last moment is, of course, the economic consequences that we have: the drop in GDP by 35 percent, the fall in industrial production, metallurgy, or, more specifically, in the mining and metallurgical complex, exactly where the largest concentration of employment was, the highest concentration of employment. At present, budget policies need to provide for the support of these sectors of the economy in order for such employment programmes not to remain on paper, but to be introduced into the real sector of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this issue, so let us move on to making a decision. I propose the adoption of a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 21.09.2022 on second reading adoption and, as a whole, Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on employment reform, social insurance for unemployment, promoting productive employment for the population, including young people, and introducing new active labour market programmes. Registration number of this Order 6067-P. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself and vote. [[10:38:07]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected, so we can sign this law. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions with a replacement for three minutes. Gunboat Arseniy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u40	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! From the Swiss Lugano to the Ukrainian Lugins, the first regional reconstruction forum was held in Žitomirščina. And I thank the Armed Forces of Ukraine that thanks to them today, we can work on the question of reconstruction. You know that Estonia is the first state to identify itself with the region and to respond to President Vladimir Zelensky's call to that area, and this is Žitomirščina, which this country has taken to its patronage and is working on reconstruction. So far, we've got two objects -- this is a kindergarten in the cross-border Ovruci, which was brutally shot this spring and where there was a lot of damage. And in the summer, Estonia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Reinsal, and Olena Schulak, with Cyril Timoshenko, set up a pod, and procedures were already under way today, and the garden is being built. Also on the day of the forum, along with Alexander Kornienk and the Minister of Infrastructure, the economy of Estonia in Mali, we announced the construction of the first joint facility — a Malian city that was destroyed by a Russian missile, and Ukraine and Estonia will jointly rebuild the facility. Today, we are working to restore all those objects that were destroyed in Zitomirsk, along with Estonia. And the forum that took place in the Lugina community for days was not only attended by government officials and business delegations from Estonia, but yesterday, I would like to stress that you and I adopted a bill on public-private partnership on the first reading. And it's important not only to talk about the reconstruction and investment of the state, of other states, but also about private business and public-private partnership. More than 20 countries took part in this forum. And we can see today that, together with Estonia, before the reconstruction of Lifetime, both Portugal and Finland are ready to join us. And this is exactly the way that all regions of Ukraine and all of our partner friends should follow this example today in order to identify with the regions and help with concrete projects to rebuild Ukraine. In the near future, we expect the President to introduce a bill on the Fund for the Reconstruction of Ukraine. And I think this bill will be the basis for the reconstruction of Ukraine, because it is designed and prepared in consultation with our key international partners. In the near future, in November, in early December, we are expecting a mirror forum in Tallinn, with more than 10 countries, to continue to rebuild not only the Zitomirskies, but also to spread these practices and encourage countries to rebuild, real reconstruction of Ukraine now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have further agreed with you that we will resume matters of parliamentary appeal. And now we're going to vote two parliamentary appeals to the President of Ukraine, and after the conclusion of our work programme, we're going to read out other parliamentary statements. I give the word to Alexander Sergiyovich. Ask. If you'll excuse me, please. Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I will first announce the creation of a new interfractional parliamentary association for the decolonization and dismantling of the Russian Empire. Headquarters: Dunda Oleg Andriyovich and Klimenko Julia Leonidivna We wish our colleagues a successful dismantling of this Russian empire. So, colleagues, we have two questions for the President of Ukraine, which I will now announce. They're identical, almost identical in content, but different authors. I think they can both be supported because they're both, in principle, on the same subject. So, Batenko Taras Ivanovich's parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine to assign the title Hero of Ukraine to the legendary hundredth UPA of Miroslav Simchich for his heroic armed struggle against the invaders, his many years of support and protection of political prisoners in the Stalin-Breath camps, his active work with national patriotic upbringing and his outstanding merits to the state. As far as I can tell, this is the last living hundred UPA that is still with us, and it can receive this reward. So, colleagues, according to the Rules, we need two votes: 150 votes for the previous vote and 226 votes for the President. I therefore put to the vote in accordance with article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules a proposal for previous support of the MP’s request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:43:50]] For 232 Decision taken. In accordance with article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Let's focus. Please vote. [[10:44:21]] For 244 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. The second MP's request to the President of Ukraine for the title of Hero of Ukraine to the hundreds of Ukrainian rebel armies, Miroslav Vasilovich Simchich, the invited "Crivonos". In accordance with article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on a proposal for previous support for a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:45:11]] For 237 Decision taken. In accordance with article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. 226 is required. [[10:45:41]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. And glory to the heroes of the UPA!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u43	Thank you, colleagues, for supporting these requests. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the agenda. Next we have the draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Society for the Northern Territories of Japan (register No. 8108). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:46:33]] For 267 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:46:55]] For 252 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u44	To present the draft decision, we invite the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, as we said yesterday, it only started yesterday. And I thank you so much for the support you gave me yesterday. Today, we come up with a new decision that is aimed at our active participation, the Supreme Council, in matters related to international activity. Therefore, your view is proposed for consideration by the draft Decree on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Society for the Northern Territories of Japan (register No. 8108). Dear colleagues are known to have illegally occupied the northern territories of Japan between August and September 45th, and later deported the Japanese population. At the same time, the Joint Declaration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan states that the Soviet Union has agreed after normalization of bilateral relations with Japan to transfer the islands of Habomai and Shikotan to Japan. The Russian Federation, on the other hand, as the successor of the Soviet Union, has not yet fulfilled its obligations. The draft refers to the failure to tolerate occupation-related issues and to attract international attention to the need to support the sovereign territories of Japan and to speed up the actual implementation of the 1956 agreements. The draft proposal therefore suggests that the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares support for Japan’s positions on its northern territories. He admits that these areas continue to be occupied by the Russian Federation. It calls on the international community to continue to take all possible steps to establish the status of the Northern Territories of Japan. It calls on international organizations and national parliaments of foreign nations of the world to seek consistent support and appropriate action on the status of the northern territories of Japan. Dear colleagues, in view of this, I ask you to support and vote on such a statement. The glory of Ukraine and the glory of Japan! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u46	Thank you. Bogdan Vasilovich Jaremenko from the Committee on Foreign Affairs is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u47	Bogdan Jaremenko, 215 constituency, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Dear colleagues, at its meeting on October 6, 2022, the Committee on Foreign Policy adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on the basis of and as a whole, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Society for the Northern Territories of Japan, taking into account technical legal rights. Dear colleagues, we continue to make history. It's another path or another step towards becoming better, becoming stronger, understanding your destiny, your mission. We must remember not only our problems but also that our problems are not solved without the problems of our friends, allies, and partners being solved. Japan is a partner social state that has been working for 77 years since World War II to achieve justice with exceptional legal methods. Colleagues, this is a historic decision, and as a Ukrainian international, I am proud to represent it. This is the first international initiative of the Ukrainian Parliament. I urge you to vote for this, to support it, will make Ukraine's legislative body stronger and stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u48	Thank you. Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, we agreed that on this issue each faction will receive two minutes of the performance. So I'm asking you to sign up for factions and groups to discuss. Paul Andryovich Bakunets, MP's "Trust", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u49	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The history of the Kremlin Empire is a story of constant aggression against these peoples living in harmony with these Moscow lands. And if you go on a historical tour, these Kremlin leaders' ambitions haven't changed at all in the last few centuries, or even more, they may even be growing. When the entire civilized world, every normal state, ensures that its citizens, citizens of that state, are comfortable living in their country to make the lives of the citizens of a normal state better, Moscow’s leadership over the past few centuries is merely ambitious to capture neighboring lands in order to destroy those nations that are neighbors of their nation. This is Moldova, for example, Georgia, this is Crimea, Donbas, and now a massive war in our country. You can count and count these fragile Kremlin ambitions. Yet the civilized world must be united. And today we urge, for example, to unite with regard to Japan. Because the Northern Territories are the ancient lands of Japan, and they are occupied by the Kremlin Empire. Therefore, we urge the entire civilized world to unite, to take all possible steps to establish the status of the Northern Territories as lands of Japan. Thank you. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u50	Please give the word to the Synth of Oleg Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u51	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u52	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u53	Yesterday, the Supreme Council unanimously accepted by the constitutional majority a very important statement on the self - determination of the peoples of Russia. This is very important because it is the prerequisite for our victory in this war and it is the victory of a stable post-war security architecture. Russia from the empire must be transformed into a national democratic state, and its enslaved nations must be freed. The appeal we are considering today refers to an equally important problem and an equally important prerequisite for lasting and just peace. The territorial integrity of all the nations occupied by Russia must be restored without any trade or compromise. The unpunished occupation by the Soviet Union and then by the Russian Federation of the Northern Territories of Japan, the deportation from the occupied islands of all Japanese, the inability of the world community to restore Japan’s territorial integrity convinced the Kremlin of its permissibility. And following Japan, Russia occupied much of the territory of Moldova, Georgia, now Ukraine. All the territories occupied by Russia must be repossessed. Ukraine’s territorial integrity should be restored to the last meter. Similarly, the territorial integrity of Moldova, Georgia, Japan must be restored. Russia and all other potential future aggressors must realize that the boundaries of sovereign states are inviolable, and there is no statute of limitations for occupation and annexation. We should remember that Russia is our Carthage. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u54	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, we support this appeal of the Supreme Council to international institutions and we believe that justice must be restored here. When Russia’s war against Ukraine began in 2014, Japan was the only Asian country to impose sanctions against Russia. In response to Russia’s massive invasion in 2022, Japan also supported sanctions. In addition, Japan today supports both humanitarian, financial, and military assistance. This anti - Russian position applies precisely to Japan, like many other countries, experiencing an annexation of their territories and the occupation of their territories by Russia. Japan has officially declared that these territories were illegally occupied by Russia, and Russia has in turn refused to pursue long-term negotiations on the issue. That is why Japan today is fighting for its freedom and the restoration of its territorial integrity. Today, Ukraine is fighting for its freedom and the restoration of territorial integrity. And I am convinced that, together with other countries that are now suffering from the crime of the Moscow Empire, we will win, we will restore justice, Ukraine will become the only one, and Japan will restore its territorial integrity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, I take it by "Serve of the People" Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today's appeal by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the international community is one of the vivid manifestations of Ukraine's consistent position on the inviolability of state territories in any area of the modern Russian Federation that is temporarily occupied. In addition to the northern islands of Japan occupied by the Soviet authorities, the “fadible” (in paws) of which the Russian authorities are the offspring must be returned to the jurisdiction of Japan. This is the territorial integrity of our partners in the Asian region. The Russian Federation continues to live today in a system of coordinates that was formed in the Middle Ages when the colonial position of the various states of the world existed. Today’s position of the Russian Federation, including the northern territories of Japan, is a gross and cynical violation of international law. Because that joint declaration between the Soviet Union and Japan, which was made back in 1956, under the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties is one of the types of international treaty. Moreover, in December 1956, ratification letters were exchanged. But for the entire civilized world, the behavior of the Russian Federation is absolutely not surprising, which is cynically, roughly, systematically disregarding international law. Therefore, we must strive to return Russia to the borders that once existed when Kiev’s Russia founded Moscow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u59	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The story of the creation of the Russian Empire is the story of the suffering of the enslaved peoples, the history of the destruction, not the creation of something new, it's the history of the gulags, the concentration camps, the famines, the repressions, the destruction of millions of people. The Russian Empire is built on this base. The Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday's decision on the right of captive peoples to self-determination and today's decision to support Japan's position on their northern territories, the so-called Kuril Islands, is a sign of a restoration of justice. And our national-liberal war, which is going on, and this aggression by Russia is a continuation of the national-liberal war of Ukraine for its state, for its right to have its own country and to be called a free nation, is evidence that the Russian Federation must cease to be an empire created exclusively on blood, suffering, death, famine and repression. The Fatherland faction will support in its entirety the decision that is being submitted to Parliament today. And we believe that our victory in the war on Russia, which will be necessary, will open the way for us to realize the right and self - determination of the enslaved nations and the right of those countries whose territories are occupied by the Russian Kremlin regime to return their territories to their land legally. And I would also like to say to you: look at Japan, the modern country itself, the Great Seven country, and the Kuril Islands are occupied by Russia, where Russia has managed to build three wooden booths. Here you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u60	The word is given to the national MP, Dmitruk Artem Hennadiovich, the MP's group "The Rebirth of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Over the centuries, our northeastern neighbor has pursued an imperialist policy of seizing foreign lands. Ukraine has suffered the most from this policy, and right now we are reflecting our lands. The Soviet Union, whose successor is Russia, occupied Japan’s northern territories at the end of World War II, taking advantage of Japan’s weakness. Today's Russian Federation -- in fact an empire -- does not even intend to return the islands of peace to Japan, which constantly raises the issue. The Russians think it's Russian land. You and I know that's not true. It seems that it is us Ukrainians who have become the destroyers of this empire. It is very likely that after our victory, Russia will rain down like a card house. We need to be aware of this and act in harmony with our great mission. Thus, in our struggle against the empire, we are objectively also lawyers and advocates of other nations who have suffered the consequences of Russia’s actions. By accepting this reference, we urge the international community to take an active position on the Japanese territories occupied by Russia and to initiate a legal procedure for their liberation, because in the fight against Russia we must be the only ones, so we can overcome this monster. I call on my colleague to vote in favour of this ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u62	Thank you. Please give the floor to Jurchino Jaroslav Romanovich, the "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, it is very evident that you and I are making such an important decision after several important preparations. The first is Ukraine's appeal to the international community about the rights of the peoples of Russia, the language does not come back to be called small, to self-determining, which laid the foundation for our further geopolitical activity. And the second is about asking the President to acknowledge Hero of Ukraine, although he is a hero long ago, the last hundred UPA of Mr Simchich. Why? In fact, the Ukrainian rebel army, the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists of their time, declared: "Freedom of the peoples, freedom of man!".. And in fact, our historic mission as the democratic frontier of the Western world is to bring about the breakup of the prisons of the peoples, the last prison of the peoples on the European continent is Russia. So this is the first and most important step. I'm very grateful to the profile committee that's setting the pace in this direction. I'd love more activity and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this direction, but there's a great deal of work. As a son of the military, I was born in the occupied Russia of Carelia because the Ukrainians could not serve in Ukraine, and they were sent to serve in the occupied territory of Russia. I have a lot of friends in occupied Chechnya, a lot of friends living in Dagestan, and now they're fighting for Ukraine's independence. We're doing a lot of work, we're voting in favour, and we're actively working to show how many nations have been occupied by Russia, which will soon be destroyed. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u65	Colleagues, today's important day, Putin loves symbolism, we make a symbolic historical decision -- a determination, reminding Russia's main problem is that it's not able to change presidents by election. In 30 years, six presidents have changed in Ukraine, and two have changed in Russia during the same period. Their global problem, the longer they live in this chair, is that the more the monster grows in it. The re-establishment of the presidential elections in Russia in the 20th year was a direct and final way of establishing a dictatorship there. Putin apparently loves life, life, and power, which became his only purpose, loves more than the lives of a Russian pensioner, an educator, a worker, a mobilized student, or even an environment, or even his own wife, for he is married to Russia. Being married in Russia -- how deep down here, apparently, the borders are resonating with Hitler's neo-Naziism. The most lying person in the world, with whom the world seems to hope, will no longer want to have anything to do. That is why we make a historic decision. Since the early 1950s, the United States and other countries of the world have not recognized and supported the territorial claims of Japan to Russia regarding the four islands of Kuril. Russia and Japan have not yet signed a peace treaty on the basis of World War II and will not sign when the issue is not resolved. So here, in this case, the symmetry should work, which is that Kuril is Japan, and so is Crimea is Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u66	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we've concluded this discussion, I ask you to take your seats and move on to the decision-making process. Dear friends, please, we will now vote another historic decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to join you in making a statement on this issue. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a proposal to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Society for the Northern Territories of Japan (register No. 8108). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:08:16]] For 287 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows! Dear colleagues, we still have 8094 -- it's also a draft decision. We agreed without discussion, but we'll give our word to the author to figure out what. And then we vote. Please invite the author of the order of Kachuru Alexandra Anatoliyovich. After his speech, we immediately vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u67	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Ukrainians, we have been told for 75 years by the mantra "never again." And this never happened again in 2014 and then in 2022 in the form of armed aggression against Ukraine. Russian soldiers came to kill, rob, torture, destroy Ukrainians. But that's the result. The first cause was Putin’s criminal order to commit an act of aggression and genocide against the Ukrainian people. Regrettably, international legal mechanisms do not allow Putin and his supporters to be held accountable quickly. Bananas in Russia do not work as a rule of international law. That is why we call on the UN, the European Parliament, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and NATO, the parliaments of the world and the whole free world to take a decision and join the initiative announced by President Zelenski to establish an international tribunal for Putin. It's not just Ukraine, it's a matter of the whole world, because there can still be many such Putins. And if we want this to never happen again, we have to put this dot once and for all. Only then can we say, never again. Happy birthday, Vladia!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u68	Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the decisions on this issue: 8,094. Let's put it in the order of the day session. I'm proposing to include this draft decision in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:10:52]] For 278 Decision taken. I now propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, parliaments and governments of its member states, the European Union, the Council of Europe on the establishment of a special international tribunal on the crime of aggression against Ukraine (registration number of draft regulation 8094). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:11:32]] For 283 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the next question, we have agreed without discussion, no one will make an amendment, this is the second reading, Bill 6482. This is a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 1 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service (registration number 6482). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:12:16]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the draft Order on the Designation of the Pious A.G. Head of the National Bank of Ukraine (8107). According to article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint the President of Ukraine as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of the Pishti Andrija Grigorovitch as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, this is the order of the day. It's a procedure, I'm sorry. A statement by the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, within 3 minutes; a statement by the candidate for the head of the National Bank, within 5 minutes; questions by the national deputies, within 15 minutes, i.e. one minute for a question and two minutes for an answer. A report from the committee is three minutes; statements from MP factions and groups - up to 16 minutes, 2 minutes for the speech; decision-making. I'll be there in 50 minutes. The Conciliation Council agreed on such an arrangement. So let's move on to the whole issue. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to attend. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich. Now, one second, they're technically still setting up the equipment. I'll ask you one second. Yeah, technically, we set it up. I now invite Fedor Vladimirovich Venislavski, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the Order "On the Liberation of the Head of the National Bank of Mr. Shevchenk." In accordance with article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine made a proposal for the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to serve as the vacant seat of the new potential head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Mr. Andrija Pishny. Mr. André Pishna meets the criteria set out in the National Bank Act (Article 18) for candidates to serve as Head of the National Bank. Therefore, on behalf of the President, I ask you to support this candidature and vote in favour of Mr. Pishny's approval as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u70	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the candidate for the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Andry Grigorovich Pishný, is invited to the floor. Please. Dear colleagues, please let's skip the candidate. And in fact, you know, I have a lot of Facebook, in other social networks, that MPs should still be in their seats, like in all European parliaments. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not talking to you. Turn around. Please, Andrew Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u71	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to start by saying thank you. First of all, I want to thank the President of Ukraine for this high and very responsible nomination. I would also like to thank the Ukrainian Armed Forces for being able to speak today in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, in the Ukrainian capital, in front of the Ukrainian deputies. The challenges facing our nation in connection with war are unprecedented today. In fact, the whole context of the activities of both the Supreme Council and the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, in fact, the National Bank and the government, is now primarily determined by war and determined by its consequences today. But for eight months now, the Ukrainian banking system has not just resisted full-scale aggression; it is working. It works uninterruptedly and works continuously. And I would also like to pay the National Bank's due team for adequate and timely anti-crisis measures. I would like to give due credit to the teams of commercial banks that have ensured the work of their institutions where possible and have provided adequate banking services. I'm going to work on preserving this success. I'm going to work on getting the Ukrainian banking system gradually back to normal operating conditions, where it's possible and as fast as possible. In terms of priorities. Before the speech, I thank you, I got a question from the factions and in my speech I'm going to try to uncover some of the aspects. Of course, priorities can be divided into two components: the international level and the national level. The international level in my mind today is a top priority for the National Bank team and its heads. Maintaining macro-financial stability and effective cooperation with international partners is one of the priorities for the functioning of the entire country in times of war and, most importantly, rebuilding it after our victory. We highly appreciate and pay tribute to our partners, the EU, the G7 and indeed to all the democratic world in support of our fight against the Russian aggressor. Partner assistance is critical because budget deficits and budget needs are over 5 billion dollars per month. In this context, cooperation with international financial organizations, primarily with the International Monetary Fund, appears to be a fundamental priority. Our funding needs for the following year are at least 38 billion. From what I know and understand, this money is ready to be given. But for this to happen, Ukraine has to work effectively with the International Monetary Fund. This is the green light that will give Ukraine access to the resources we need so badly for next year. For me, as Head of the National Bank, if you make a decision, it will be one of the main priorities. National level. An important task is to develop and protect the stability of the banking system and minimize the risks that war entails. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u72	Thank you, thank you. All right, time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with our order, which we have approved with you, please sign up for a question to the candidate. Please sign up for a question to the candidate. The word is given to Mikola Ivanovich Kucher, the MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u73	I give you the word "Bilozer."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u74	Please, Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u75	Dear Andrew Grigorovich, one of the main issues that concerns people today is, of course, inflation. According to the National Bank, it is still accelerating, and this year's growth is projected at 24 percent. Of course, the reason for this is that the NBA also calls the dollar hike, and the supply restrictions, and the logistics costs of the business, which have increased considerably. All these factors because of the war, well, they're not going to be able to disappear anytime soon, so the question to you is, how do you see for yourself the task of combating inflation?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. This is the core task of the central bank – to ensure an effective macroeconomic policy, which is based on its task and its task of ensuring macroeconomic stability. Today, inflation has been controlled by what has been done. To date, we have managed to stabilize the situation in virtually all major monetary policy settings. And I think that these effective measures now, given the short- and medium-term forecasts, should be preserved. I'm a supporter and adept to an institutionally strong and independent National Bank. This will ensure a balance between macroeconomic stability and the need to maintain economic activity. But I understand how important it is to ensure that all decisions that today will be approved by financial authority are accurately calibrated to ensure the necessary support for the economy, business and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u77	Thank you. Now, Bilozer, are you going to ask me one more question? Come on, all right. Please, National Deputy Placzkova, "Deliverance of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u78	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Candidate. I have a question with you today that really concerns many Ukrainians. How do you personally predict the currency exchange rate of your bracelet as head of the Nutzbank for at least the following year? That's the first question. And the second. How do you plan to influence the currency exchange rate of the bracelet? We know that in recent weeks, Nazibank has actually had to increase foreign exchange interventions at the same time to contain the situation in any way. Under your direction, are we facing the same course or perhaps greater administrative pressures, administrative restrictions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. The decisions that have been adopted by the National Bank for the correction of exchange rate policies, first of all, for the establishment of a fixed rate, I estimate as a sufficiently effective anti-crisis measure. As a result, the situation was stabilized. Today, there are enough effective mechanisms for analysis, control and appropriate response to the policy, including those that are being defined. With the public information that is available to me, I can appreciate the decisions that have been made as completely adequate. However, I understand how important it is for the National Bank to clearly monitor trends and to shape both expectations and qualitative forecasts of the situation. I believe the time has come, and I will discuss this issue if you decide with the National Bank team on such high-precision calibration of decisions that will be approved by the Central Bank of Ukraine. The course will be consistent with the state of our macroeconomic indicators. At present, it is one that allows us to provide the necessary level of gold reserves and maintain a macroeconomic situation in the projected parameters. Looking for a balance sheet is one of the tasks that will be faced by the National Bank and its government.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Signora Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u82	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Andrey, I am addressing you and yesterday I told you, I am very, very much, and almost everyone is very confused about the possibility of borrowing. And I don't think we're doing everything we can to make sure that our internal borrowings do have a decent level. I read that on August 2 or 3, the Board of the National Bank issued such recommendations regarding the DWP, namely, the introduction of indexed DWPs, the purchases and repayments of which are made in bracelets, but in relation to the dollar, talked about considering the possibility of canceling the name of military DWPs so that they could be purchased by foreign banks, and establishing the maximum amount of issuance of securities that we discussed with you yesterday. Whether you support such recommendations and whether you will continue to work with Minfin to.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u84	Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. I strongly believe that the issue of domestic debt policy should be the subject of a very frank discussion in the near future, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, including our international partners, I think, the IMF. The design of internal debt policy is one of the elements through which the National Bank can effectively implement its monetary policy. From what I'm aware of, the results of the monetary committee published by the National Bank, they see an obvious problem in the lack of effectiveness of the so-called monetary transmission, which is the underlying relationship between the government and the National Bank. As I understand it, there are some internal regulatory acts in the National Bank that can create a secondary market for sovereign domestic debt bonds from the National Bank's portfolio. I'll take care of it, we'll sit down with the government, we'll talk to the staff, we'll look at the analysis, we'll talk about it, we'll talk about it, we'll talk about it, we'll have a lot of it, and I really hope it's a constructive work with the government and the Ministry of Finance. This is a matter of time before we need effective mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u86	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Head. Your Honor, I'm going to have some specific questions. And you've given quite extensive answers, but I'd like to hear from you the answers in numbers to the questions about monetary policy instruments. And in particular, I'd like to hear what is planned, for example, an account rate, because 25 percent, we know that it's tied to loans, it's serious. So what will it be next year and in the short term? Next, we're interested in the exchange rate of the national monetary unit, because the budget for the next year is set at 50 dollars per dollar. What will he be like, and what plan do you have? Next, are you planning to use the inflation targeting tool, more specifically, to introduce a regime to overcome inflation? That's the first one. And the second. Maybe you have a floating rate policy, how are you going to work, and what are you planning to do with the inflation rate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. I think the National Bank should use all the tools available and available to it to influence the monetary, the exchange rate, the price situation. The National Bank is now quite actively using virtually the entire arsenal. I'm not ready to predict the course today. You will consider the following issue of the state budget. I can say that in the state budget, I welcome the Ministry of Finance's statement that there is a need to abandon the emission sources of government budget deficit financing in the 23rd year. But at the same time, it means that we need to activate our negotiating process with our international partners, and not just activate it, but achieve what we want. But in itself, the statement is correct. I can only greet her.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shpak Love Alexandrovna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u90	I have a question for you about monetary policy. However, the rate is 42.2. How are we going to keep it at this level because it's budgeted for 2023? And according to what monetary policy tools will you use? Also a question about Megabank. The depositors of Megabank are properly dropped, and these are large enterprises for today that are blocked in the work in Kharkiv. Why is no one punished? And how will you deal with such a situation in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u91	From a well-known public source of information, I think that the course set by the National Bank and set up today is quite a reflection of the real situation. The fluctuations that we see in the cash market, I'm sure you can see it, too, have a psychological element in the first place. People react from mobilization to Russia, ending up with questions related to the possible activation of hostilities. But in general, today’s fixed rate corresponds to current macroeconomic realities. Once again, we will be very careful to monitor the situation and we will use all available mechanisms and tools to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to change the situation. For example, I think Parliament will be interested to know that the decision of the National Bank, which set the appropriate monetary limits, has changed more than 30 times over the duration of its operation. This means that, in principle, there is a clear trace of all the elements that affect the course and price stability and the corresponding response. Of course, not everyone likes them. But given the result that we're in after eight months of active full-scale war today, I think the anti-crisis government is the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u92	Thank you. I think it's a final question. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear reporter, in continuing my previous question, I would like to continue with a number of parameters that we are interested in and prognosis parameters, such as gold reserves. Yesterday, the National Bank published data that the amount of gold reserves had dropped to $23.9 billion. We know with you that the importance of this indicator is that the National Bank of Ukraine is able to stabilize the official currency exchange rate with foreign exchange interventions. And as we continue with the exchange rate, we're also interested in the amount of gold reserves, because that's an extremely important topic, given what I've just heard. That's the first question. The second question. You've already touched him in part in answering my colleagues' questions, that's about the borrowing. You know, next year, 1.6, almost 1.7 trillion dollars of borrowing. That's 32 percent more than all of the budget revenue. How will Natzbank work in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u94	From what I know of operational information, including public, the state of gold reserves as of today, more than $24 billion. They improved, even compared to the beginning of September. This is due to Ukraine’s receiving part of the funding that came from the European Union and our international partners. For the time being, gold reserves, in principle, are enough to effectively conduct policy. And I intend to support and ensure an in-depth analysis and timely response to any changes. We need to understand that gold reserves are basic, necessary, condition, in order for Ukraine to have the opportunity to ensure macroeconomic stability, efficient regulation of inflation processes and, above all, to achieve our victory as ready as possible for rapid economic recovery. And that's an important element. In addition to macroeconomic stability, the National Bank must be involved in stimulating economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. Thank you, candidate. I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danil Alexanderovich Gettmanchev, to take the floor for a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy considered a draft decision yesterday at its meeting on the appointment of Mr. Pishny as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and recommended that the Supreme Council approve the draft decision. In addition to meeting the formal signs, we talked to him on the committee, discussing all the actual issues of the current order of the financial system, and we found that he had his faithful vision and his understanding of what to do. At the same time, I would like to point out that if we support it, the head of the National Bank faces a rather important and complex task. Because in fact, during the war, the National Bank team, headed by the previous head, proved to be brilliant. The National Bank managed to ensure the stability of the banking system, the National Bank managed to ensure the profitability of the banking system, moderate inflation even compared to our non-war neighbours, a controlled rate of money. Credits and deposits increased during the military period. The banking system is now superfluous, its liquidity exceeds peacetime, and the gold reserve is increasing. And all of this despite the war, the war that is the most bloody, its consequences, its devastating losses, the military conflict in Europe since 1945, the war that destroyed one third of our economy today, kills thousands of people and poses enormous threats to both the financial system, its stability and the economy as a whole. The new Head of the National Bank faces the task of maintaining macrofinancial stability and preserving the gains of the first half of 2022 provided by Nazbank. To complete the reform of the non-bank financial system and most importantly to adapt the banking system to new realities, to new military and post-bank realities. The National Bank's collective is very professional. They know what they're doing, and they're in their seats. I am convinced that they will help the new head, and he will deal with these tasks along with them. Please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u97	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, please sign up from the MP factions and groups for two minutes. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u98	Please, Dear, Servant of the People. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u99	Please pass the word Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u100	Please, Smogluk, Vasilevska Smogluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u101	Thank you. The entire civilized world has come to realize that monetary policy must be freed from the pressures of the current order of the day and delegated by the independent Central Bank. For the past eight years, Ukraine has worked consistently to make the NBA truly institutionally independent so that it will no longer allow short-term economic rises at the price of long-term inflation risks and monetaryization of government debt, to ensure bank supervision against interference by government offices. And these decisions work. Despite the archival situation, inflation processes in the country are controlled. The objectively induced weakening of the bracelet is restrained by balance. Our main task is not to change this internal policy and to remain not only creative, but also practically supporters of Nazbank's independence. And so in order to carry out the cost and financial stability tasks, the NBA manager has to be free from political pressure. That is what we want, and I hope Mr. Pious will ensure that these ideals are followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u102	Thank you. Cabal, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, in connection with the military aggression of the Russian Federation, are facing great challenges as a country. And one of the key challenges in the economic and financial sphere is the challenge for the activities of the National Bank. At this difficult time, the National Bank is facing the challenge of maintaining price stability, keeping the rate of currency, and one of the important challenges is the stability of the financial sector. Since we all understand that without a stable financial sector, and I remind you that the NBA is not only responsible for the rate and is also the regulator of the financial sector, the corresponding stability of the financial sector will guarantee that the economy is working. So for me, as a national deputy, and for all of us, it must be very important that the person who takes the position of Head of the National Bank has sufficient qualifications, sufficient experience and enough wishes and skills to meet these challenges. In fact, me and all of us, most people here, know the biography and, for example, the career of Andrija Grigorovich Pishno. And we all understand that he has banking qualifications, he has qualifications, he has a lot of experience in the banking sector, he has experience in international negotiations, which is very important for the IMF and other international financial organizations. And it seems to me that we are all -- both the authorities and the opposition -- to take responsibility for ourselves now and to support Andrija Grigorovovich's candidacy for later.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u104	Thank you. Tetjana Mikhailovna's crying, "Delivery of Ukraine." You will continue to be, Alexander Sergiyovich, you are in different groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u105	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows, Your Honor, presiding lord, dear candidate! First of all, I want to mark the actual professional work of the National Bank, along with Parliament and the government during the war, which showed real results. And we're really looking forward to a new future head of results today at least as good as possible. The National Bank of Ukraine is a key institution on which the stability of our currency depends on the fight against inflation and the sound functioning of the banking and financial services market. Today, war calls for unusual and operational decisions. And we expect that the new leader’s considerable experience will necessarily serve this particular mission. The National Bank is now one of the pillars on which fiscal stability is maintained. We're taking on a budget today, we're in active negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. Therefore, the change in Nazbank’s headmaster should in no way affect the course of these negotiations. The challenges facing the new Head of the National Bank are clear. But what I want to remind you is that there are millions of Ukrainian citizens who are now interested in liberalizing credit policies in the banking sector, and that's important, especially for small, medium-sized, big business, and today he's waiting for quick available money. I think you, Mr. Candidate, need to find that strong balance to solve this problem. Our MP's "Resurrection of Ukraine" group will support the candidate of Prysto Andriy Grigorovovich as Head of Nazbank and we hope for strong further active communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u107	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, dear candidate, I would like to draw attention to a few priorities that you will need to take into account and do in your future work, because these are extremely important tasks for the country. The first non-appealing priority is. monetary policy is about achieving and ensuring price stability, overcoming galloping inflation. Because whoever told us that this is normal practice, but when we have cumulative inflation loads in 2 years, we have 69.1 percent, almost 70 percent, these are inadequate numbers. 30 percent in this, 30 in the next year. Imagine that in terms of minimum fixed income. Fighting inflation is an undeniable priority. The other one. The main monetary policy tool is the account rate. I asked her why, because from 6 to 25 percent, they raised the bill. It needs to be reduced from that point of view at least that it will be responsible for stimulating and lending to the real economy. At the end of your speech, you said very well: an undeniable priority is stimulating the economy. So our group insists that lending the economy, the real sector of the economy, takes place with long and cheap money. This needs to be done, and there are appropriate tools in the National Bank. One second. I also want you to look at other monetary policy tools that are being used because we have non-monetary inflation. We use the same account rate and a number of other points, and we're, on the other hand, triggering an additional inflationary spiral. Next. The stability of the national monetary rate. We have a devaluation planned for this year and 86 percent next year. The bracelet from 27 to 50 bucks a dollar falls. We also need a stable monetary unit to maintain a stable external economic environment. To be completed. Of course, our group will support your candidacy, and we want you to succeed in this in order to primarily stimulate the internal consumer market and macro-financial stability in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u108	Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. candidate, Mr. Andrey, I think you've heard the basic demands and wishes of your colleagues in the future, the national deputies, in the hall. And I can say with confidence that, despite the difficult cadaver period, for a difficult war period, the banking system did use all the tools available to support the country's financial system. But I'm sure there'll be even more difficult times now. Because the tools used by the National Bank so far will not be enough, and some of them will have to be completely eliminated. And it's absolutely obvious right now that we're looking for the cooperation that we just talked about, asking a question to an honourable candidate. Because the recent recommendations of the National Bank Board say that the country's economy needs to be changed. Changes because bank instruments alone cannot maintain the country’s financial system. So I would still like you to start a real job with the Ministry of Economics, with the Ministry of Finance and in every direction. This also applies to the tax system, that is, all policies that only affect the state of the country’s economy. I wish you success, of course, but I would very much like to point out that not only work with external creditors should be a priority in your work, but we need to start serious internal work. The internal reserves are huge, we haven't used them yet, and no one's ever thought of them. Let us now join together, even more difficult times ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, from "The Fatherland" Ivanovich Krulko. And let's move on to making a decision. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. Please, Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u111	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, at today's meeting of the Fatherland faction, we had a meeting with the candidate for the head of the National Bank, Mr. Pishny. And during this discussion, we are once again convinced that the candidate who is now applying for this high office is a professional of his own. He understands very well the challenges facing the country's financial system, the National Bank, before the need to maintain the stability of the monetary unit. I hope that Mr. Happy will have everything in this position. And we, the Fatherland faction, have decided to support his candidacy for election as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. But at the same time, I would like to say that the key task for the new Head of the National Bank is to solve the issues that are now crucial and which is at 25 percent of the GDP. Even under today's crisis and war conditions, this rate is a killer for the Ukrainian economy. Let me give you just one example. The domestic loan bonds issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are purchased by the National Bank at an account rate of 25 percent, thus selling the issue to the Ukrainian State under 25 percent of the year-olds. We don't take that kind of expensive money in any international institution or in any of our external lenders. Imagine what it would be like to have credits in commercial banks for people if the 25th and the government at this rate were essentially making money and issuing government funds. We think it needs to be changed urgently, and I hope that the new Head of the National Bank will take care of this issue as a matter of urgency, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, it turns out Mr. Ivanchuk wants to speak out of "Trust," and then we vote. Please, I'm just asking for the following, factions that. And the groups who want to log in, there's this button. Please, Mr. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Golovo, my fellow Members, the Deputies' Group of Trust unanimously decided to support Andry the Phantom's candidacy as Head of the National Bank. But as the head of the bank’s bank subcommittee, I would like to address the candidate and convey such a wish, a request from the deputy corps. In addition, the National Bank must fulfil its institutional obligations: maintain the exchange rate of the national currency, strengthen macroeconomic stability, and the deputies are very concerned that commercial banks today, in other words, sabotage the lending of the real economy. So it's very good that a candidate for the head of the National Bank has such a colossal, huge business bank experience. So, Andriy Grigorovich, you have to set up a banking system, I'm not afraid of that word, make sure that the real lending of the real economy takes place. This will be the best thing we can do for the country in such a difficult state of war and postwar reconstruction. So I'm asking everyone to support Andrija Grigorovitch's candidacy for this position, we're confident that he won't fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, please ask the people's deputies to take their seats. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 8107) on the appointment of Writer Andrija Grigorovitch as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:57:53]] For 290 Decision taken. Andrew Grigorovich, welcome. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We are now moving on to an issue that is probably the most important in Parliament's work, which is the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2023. Dear colleagues, I immediately request all of you. I ask you so to plan today, such days are once or twice a year, today we have to make this decision, no matter how many amendments it takes. So I ask you to adjust your plans, today we have a decision to make on this issue. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Dear National Deputies, we turn to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2023 (Registration No. 8000) in the first reading presented on September 21, 2022. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is being discussed in full. In accordance with the Rules and the Committee's proposals, the following rules of procedure are proposed: a report by the Head of the Committee on Budgetary Questions in up to 5 minutes; replies by the committee's heads to a question of up to 6 minutes, a statement by the Minister of Finance in up to 5 minutes; statements by the Head of the Court of Auditors in up to 5 minutes; statements by representatives of the MPs and groups in up to 24 minutes, i.e. three minutes for the presentation; statements by the national deputies in up to 6 minutes, three minutes for the presentation; decisions taken. It's only an hour. Is there no objection? That is what we agreed to at the Conciliation Council. So let's move on. Let's move on to the question. The Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues Yuri Juryovich Aristov is invited to report on the findings and proposals and results of the consideration of the draft State budget. Please, Yuri Yuriovich, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u115	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs prepared a bill on the state budget for the following year to be considered in the first reading. We have a clear understanding that the budget is designed to win, and there is no room for development costs. War requires responsible action and hard decisions. The bill received 1,270 proposals on time from people's deputies and committees, which is twice as much as last year, for which I am very grateful. However, it takes almost 4 trillion dollars to take into account the offer. The task of the Budget Committee is to find a balance between revenue and budget expenditure, between need and opportunity. Our work was accompanied by long hours and intense discussions in an effort to find consensus between the wishes of the authors of proposals and the harsh reality of a warring country with very limited resources. The priorities in this reality are clear and clear, they are reflected in the draft budget next year: the country's security and social support, medicine, education, recovery of critical infrastructure. As a result of such priorities, the committee prepared proposals for the draft budget, including an increase in the direct use of the Fund’s funds for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression, the projected expenditure on the State Regional Development Fund of 2 billion dollars on the cost of the contingency fund. In addition, the Committee suggests that the government be entrusted with the second reading to deal with the issue of increasing income, taking into account the status of their implementation this year and the recently adopted tax laws. Increased expenditure in the fields of education, science, medicine, culture, sports on offer, based on available resources and the justification for additional costs. Consideration should also be given to the possibility of reviewing the budget if the inflation forecast is actually exceeded with a view to raising the subsistence minimum and minimum wage. And if there is an increase in excise revenue on tobacco, there will be an opportunity and an increase in expenditure on education subsidies and the State Regional Development Fund. I urge the National Deputies to feel their responsibility for how and at what cost the country will live next year. The implementation of a large part of the budget will depend on international financial assistance. That is why we need to adopt this bill as soon as possible so that we can start negotiations with international partners on how to find sources of funding. The Committee on Budgetary Questions therefore recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a draft decision on the conclusions and proposals for the State Budget Bill for 2023. The adoption of such a decision will allow the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare a draft for second reading, taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. We work together to win and praise Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u116	You're done, aren't you, Yuri Yuriovich? Dear colleagues, I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a question to the reporter. Let me remind you, we're going to take up to six minutes: one minute is a question, two minutes is an answer. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich. The MP's "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u118	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Budget Committee, I'll have a few brief questions. They relate to the proposals made by our parliamentary group to the Ukrainian draft State Budget Act for the following year. In particular, first of all, it's about limiting payments to 10 minimum wages for all officials, members of supervisory boards, all civil servants with wages above that limit. Given the fact that we have a serious budget deficit, today it's almost 1.3 trillion dollars more than all of the revenue, why aren't such an adjustment to the budget's budget optimisation on the one hand? On the other hand, we wonder why the proposals for the support of the Academy of Sciences, such as the National Academy of Sciences, and the sectoral Academy of Sciences, have not been taken into account. We know with you what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on here, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, what's going on here, Well, what this leads to, we know, is the labour emigration of scientific personnel. Thank you for both your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u120	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u121	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u122	It's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the second question. If you can see, we have the government's mandate to look at the possibility of funding all the branches and majors of the academy. That's why we're here with you, and we support the government. And with regard to the reduction of the cost of maintaining public authorities. Most of the proposals made did not contain sources of funding and were formally balanced. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers in 2022 reduced government funding by 10 percent. Then there was a further 10 percent reduction in the proposed budget. Therefore, I believe that the further reduction of such expenditure without the necessary measures to reform the relevant authorities and optimize the number of their employees is impossible today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u124	Thank you. Please give the floor to Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u125	Dear Chairman, please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u126	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Head. The following questions relate to indexation of minimum fixed income, including minimum wage. I have already mentioned many times in my statements today that the index of inflation or, more specifically, the index of consumer prices for goods and services, as it is rightly called, this year and next year will be 30.1 percent and 30 percent. In general, this is 69 percent if you count the indices. The national monetary unit devaluation on this background is going to be 83.15 percent. We don't change the minimum wage, we don't change the minimum wage, we don't change the minimum wage and we don't change the minimum wage. That's where I'm headed. We're just in the previous question with you, and I suggested that we limit the toppings to ten minimums -- those who get a few hundred thousand a month. And how to survive these people who get a few thousand dollars a month and we don't diversify the whole system. You know what our social asymmetry is. So have you counted your index projections?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u128	Thank you for asking. Compared to the current year, the average living minimum and minimum wage levels are still increasing, since during the following year there will be an increase in size, at the end of this year a minimum wage of 6,000,700 dollars, and at the end of October 1, a minimum wage of 2,000,589, at the end of December 1. At present, there is no financial capacity to raise social standards due to the considerable budgetary constraints. At the same time, the committee took into account in part the proposals on the need to review the government budget in part of the increase in minimum wage subsistence and an increase in the corresponding budgetary indicators in the event that the consumer price index is actually exceeded. The Cabinet of Ministers has discussed this subject publicly, and I have no information that the consumer price index will be reviewed. So I think that's also going to apply to pensions, recalculations.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u129	Thank you. And the final question is the roadside Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u130	Good afternoon. Dear Mikola, 162th District, Sumstina. Dear Yuri Juryovich, thank you very much and thank all colleagues from the Committee on Budget Affairs for the fact that we have always found consensus quickly and quickly among all proposals. I'd like to ask you to explain to your colleagues in more detail, and I think that most of the major MPs in their districts have been or are still fighting. How will the recovery fund, which we recently voted on in the first reading proposed in the 2023 budget project, function? To clarify more, I think it is important not only to fellow majors, but it is important for the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u131	Thank you for asking. Yes, I am the author, co-author of the bill establishing a fund for the state budget for the elimination of the consequences of Russian armed aggression. Its main goal is all the money confiscated in the Russian Federation will be directed at eliminating the consequences. The main thing is to build a housing that's destroyed and everything that's related to infrastructure to this housing. And we've added already when we're looking at spending on the PCD, we're also adding recovery of critical infrastructure. The articles of fulfillment are in 2022 -- it's confiscated property. The source of the confiscated money, I'm sorry. In 2023, the National Bank’s profits are added. So I think the fund's resource is going to be filled. The Fund will work under the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers to agree on all these decisions by the Budget Committee. So the Supreme Council's control will be implemented in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u132	Thank you, Yuri Yuriovich. Time's up, please take your place. The speech is given by Sergio Mikhailovich Marchenko, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u133	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! I am very grateful to all of you that, in this difficult period of time, you have completed the draft budget in extremely strict terms, you have given the necessary number of rights that will allow it to be made better. We're going to do all of these redundancies on our part, and we're going to do the best we can to take into account today's conditions, given that we're in a state of war right now. And the main thrusts of this budget are clearly defined: the defence and social protection of citizens. Once again, I want to emphasize that this budget is unique, because this budget outside politics, it does not in any way support political ambitions, it does not give preference to certain sectors, sectors, regions. And again, thank you for finding the opportunity to preserve this apoliticality. This budget is extremely simple, on the one hand, and extremely complex, on the other hand. And I thank you for being extremely responsibly responsible for the state's finances, and the number of your proposals and rights testify to that. If last year there were over 3,000 proposals and rights from honourable national deputies, this number is twice as high this year. The amount of supply is less than tens of times. Last year, there were over 90 trillion dollars in the budget, this time it's 4 trillion dollars. It is also large and significant. But this already shows that we are closer to compromise, closer to taking all the wishes and national MPs into account and understanding that in the realities of today. I am deeply grateful to the budget committee that has worked effectively on the budget. We're going to go back to second reading, and we're going to be ready in extremely tight terms, given that we now have active negotiations with our partners, our partners are already studying the draft budget, making proposals. My point is that our needs assessments are in line with the needs of our partners, or international financial organizations. We are actively engaged in negotiations. The budget deficit next year is extremely large and complex -- $38 billion. With this in mind, we are now negotiating these negotiations to secure and guarantee this financial resource. Again, thank you all for the constructive. Thank you for the dialogue. Thank you for understanding. In the process of processing and in the case of your support, we are ready to work on the budget as much as possible and to make it as perfect as possible in terms of the state of war, I reiterate. Because the perfect budget right now can only be one -- it's protecting our territorial integrity, defending us, it's our soldiers and, of course, social protection, there are no other priorities in this budget and there can't be. Thank you and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u134	Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich. The address is given to Valery Vasilovich Puckan, head of the Accounting Chamber. Please, Valery Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u135	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, are invited! The Court of Auditors carried out an expert study of the draft State Budget Law-2023 and forwarded the Supreme Council with the relevant conclusions. I'll stop at the features of the project, its priorities and its challenges. First. The budget of 2023 is the budget of war. The absence of complete current statistics, the high degree of uncertainty about the duration and consequences of the war, has made it extremely difficult to predict and evaluate the basic indicators of the budget. The result of the war was a reduction in basic budget indicators: income, expenditure, real social standards – and at the same time an increase in government borrowing and budget deficits. The other one. In times of war, financing national security and defence is an absolute priority. Compared to the current year, expenditures have increased by 244 billion dollars, or 28 percent. A total of 1.1 trillion dollars, or 85 percent of the income, will be spent on the purchase, upgrading, and repair of weapons. Third. Another priority is social protection and social security for Ukrainians. For these purposes, there are 409 billion dollars -- 16 per cent of the total government budget expenditure. The budget’s 2023 innovations are the setting of social standards at the level of 2022 and the consolidation of budget programmes. This allowed to optimize social security spending and, as a result, to increase aid for internally displaced persons by 10 billion. Four. Expenditure on transfers from the state budget is reduced by 13.5 percent locally and amounts to 182 billion dollars. The government predicted three new transfers that were relevant during the war. The first is an additional grant to exercise authority of local self-government in the occupied, temporarily occupied and other areas of Ukraine affected by war, 24 billion. Subsidy for safety in schools is one and a half billion. The subsidy for school buses is 1 billion. Fifth. The project is based on effective tax legislation that ensures stability. And that's certainly a good thing. At the same time, according to the Court of Auditors, there are risks of underestimating the projected increase in VAT revenues from imported customs territory of Ukraine of incomes - goods, excuses, rents for natural gas mining and non-recovery payments from public sector enterprises. Six. In order to finance the budget deficit next year, the government predicts that 1.7 trillion dollars of government borrowing will be involved. That's 56 percent of the total resource income of the budget. At the same time, 95 percent of the loans are planned to be made in the external market. First of all, these are IMF costs -- 633 billion dollars and the U.S. government with other official creditors -- 576 billion dollars. This means that loans will be made at lower interest rates and for longer periods. The implementation of the projected costs will depend on continued cooperation with international financial organizations and other creditors. Seven. The government debt will increase by 76 percent to 6.4 trillion dollars, representing 100 percent of the gross domestic product. The risks of an even greater increase in the state budget as a result of an over-planned release of DDPs to finance military expenditures, to not receive funds from privatization and to replace them with government loans, and to devalue the fines. Only one in four dollars of the budget will be allocated to the government budget of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'd like to finish by getting back to where I started. The budget is adopted under war conditions, and its funding must be uninterrupted and its expenditure effective. I think the most important thing right now is the rapid adoption of the budget on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. In response to part five of article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I received a letter from the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy asking for a speech on behalf of the Committee on Legal Policy of the Ukrainian National Deputy Demchenk Sergio Alexiyyovich during the discussion of the draft Law on the State Budget for 2023. Please, Sergey Alexiyovich, in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u137	Colleagues, today we are looking at budget 2023. What is this for the Committee of Legal Policy? This is a matter of providing assistance to the Ministry of Finance, paying attention to where the funds are to be spent. We've been saying since the first day we discussed with the Ministry of Finance that the judiciary has to continue to exist in our country, and that the issue of existence today is being addressed in this state budget. The relevant remedies, which were submitted to finance the judiciary, were unanimously supported by the committee, almost unanimously by the budgetary committee, and should now be taken into account by the Ministry of Finance. I'm going to the Ministry of Finance. Honorary ministers, honourable ministers, honourable deputy ministers, are talking about financing the Supreme Court, the highest judicial office in Ukraine. The absence of funding from the Supreme Court, the remaining state of affairs, as is currently proposed in the draft budget, will lead to a lack of consideration, a lack of deliberation, I emphasize, cases involving state secrecy, cases related to collaboration and so forth, and so forth, so-called war crimes will not be dealt with in the courts. It's a very specific kind of crime that has to be dealt with with with by keeping a secret, but I'm paying attention, colleagues, even the funds to ensure now the secret, the state secret to ensure when dealing with these things that are not budgeted. Colleagues, the appropriate funding that is now being proposed and supported by the Committee on Budgets, also foresees an increase in funding for the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine. What are we talking about? Colleagues, everyone knows that the signed Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, along with the International Monetary Fund, is a memorandum signed in the 21st year where our country made its commitments to this anti-corruption court. If these commitments, I'm paying attention to the minister of finance, are not being met, this will not allow you to have an effective dialogue with our partners in order to secure funding for the 23rd year. So on this issue, we have also provided you with assistance through these rights. In addition, it is the Supreme Council of Justice, a colleague, a higher body of judicial administration. Not even paid by the draft budget to all members of the High Council of Justice. The entire international community is helping us now to form the most transparent judicial body. And we don't provide him with salary, shame. This is the kind of help we are providing to the Ministry of Finance today to ensure these payments. And last but not least, colleagues. Three thousand people must be released if the budget remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u138	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I no longer received written requests from the committee for speeches, so the committee is no longer speaking. Let's move on. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups for up to 24 minutes, three minutes for a performance from factions and groups. Please sign up, colleagues. Please, from the "Golos" faction, Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich. Ivan Ivanovich, you know, all factions and groups have the right to speak, so do you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u139	I'll have the Ironman's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u140	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u141	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I've really seen enough budgets that have been considered in this room and this call, and the last call. Indeed, this is the budget that most in the first place adequately matched the time in which the expenditure was cut, because there is no money. And if you've listened carefully to our already elected Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, even those modest expenses that are budgeted, we're not going to have to go out on our own, without emissions, to fund the budget and expenses, which means we're going to have to print the bracelet, and we really don't want the course to go any further. By the way, about the course. Dear colleagues, we don't have a relationship to the course in the budget. Well, it's simple. To be honest, it's a mistake that everyone's been repeating. I understand why Russian cables do this, I don't know why Ukrainian MPs do it. There isn't! There's an explanatory note, there's a macropredict from 31.08.2022, which makes one person in the Ministry of Economics. No one even knows the course. Official is 36.6. There are no bonds of 42, 43, 50 and so on. I have some comments about the proposals that are taken into account. And I hope that the national MPs will change today, and the colleagues who are very willing to fund something will open up and watch how the budget is financed during the war and how the money is transferred between the administrators. Even what you want can be done elegantly, so that it does not immediately cause me, not as a politician, but as a person who was born and raised in the city of Mariupol, and would like the money that is now in the budget to be sent either to the army or to support people who are homeless. But once again, any budget can be criticized, it's very easy to do that. This was done a million times from this rostrum. But it is very difficult to do so adequately during wartime. So, the Ministry of Finance, I vote for this budget, for the first time in my life, with the hope that no unprofiled expenditure will be accepted by you. I read what powers the Ministry of Finance has during the war, and I hope that all the money will be directed either to the army or to the support of the people who have lost their homes, and I hope that other colleagues will respond so adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u142	Please, National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u143	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, we've already begun our discussion with the distinguished Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Indexation, Social Standards. And I'm going to start at the end, more precisely, from this, and then I'm going to move on to the general macroeconomic indicators. See, when you appeal before this year or, more specifically, until December 1st last year, when you set 6,500 and 6,700, which is now, that's plus 3.1 percent the increase in the minimum wage. When you're in inflation at 30, you're feeling an odd increase in the minimum and inflation. This is the first moment. In two years, inflation is increasing, I told you, 30, 30, 69 is the total cumulative index, with 3 percent of the increase in the minimum. Why is the most important emphasis on the increase in minimum wage, minimum pension, minimum wage and so on, and so on, it still goes to the minimum wage of the first tariff rate charged, and so on. Because the most important thing for today to stimulate economic activity within the country is to launch an internal consumer market. If our consumer inside the country, now I'm moving away from the macro indicators of the budget, and I'm moving exclusively into social standards, if we don't have incentives for goods and services, we're going to keep going down production, we're going to keep going down tax and congregation accounting, we're going to keep using this budget and we're going to keep increasing borrowing. This is a bad situation and a bad picture. But that's half the trouble. We're still on the budget. We have a budget deficit of 1.3 trillion dollars -- that's more than all of the budget revenue. The loan we have today is almost 1.7 trillion dollars next year. That's more than 32 percent of the revenue. I mean, the macroeconomic picture we have today is very sad. Let's move on. According to the Pension Fund deficit, 232 billion dollars. Last year there were 200. That's what it means. This is the planned indicator in Appendix 3 of the State Budget Act, and we see that this figure is increasing. So this is also an important moment. Well, subsidies. It was 41.7, now 37.8 billion dollars. To be honest, I have not seen any tariffs that would have been reduced to this day, I have only seen additional bills. So from this point of view, just when all of these take and complex macroeconomic aspects, and so on, we've made our first reading proposals to optimize the spending portion of the budget, to limit it to 10 minimums. I'm not just saying that. When there was a cadaver budget we looked at, our faction then insisted that we limit it to 10 minimum wages, and in 2020 it was working, and it worked. We ask the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister to return, on the one hand and on the other, to diversify the budget to support the most vulnerable. Then it's going to be a socially oriented budget, even in a state of war. Of course, we support him. But macro indicators need to be examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Please give me the word of Lis Oleni Georgievni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Oblivious Forest.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u146	Please, Lesa Oblivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u147	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, allow me to express the position of our faction on the budget. Indeed, this budget is unique this year. And we are absolutely convinced that the budget of 2023 will be the budget of victory for our country. In particular, the main priorities, as the finance minister pointed out, are clearly reflected in the budget, according to the committee’s chairman. First of all, half the budget, even a little bit more, will be focused on the defence sector, and most importantly, the second priority is spending on the Ministry of Social Policy, which is supporting people. You know, what I'd like to pay attention to is that we're also a political force that works actively with people and helps them, especially internally displaced people in Kiev and elsewhere where people really need the attention of the state today. More than 60 billion dollars have been added to the program. There is clearly enough money to provide people with pensions, with all the necessary payments. I mean, despite the fact that in a country of war, a nation is a priority for man himself, because we are absolutely convinced that just saving our people, our nation, is the best response to the aggressor. So this budget is going to be focused on solving the problems. In addition, at the Committee on Budget Affairs meeting yesterday, we also discussed what should be continued in those regions, where we should try to start the economy. And the budget provides for the President's program, which has proved to be excellent, "5-7-9" almost 16 billion dollars. For a fund to eliminate the consequences of armed aggression, which will demonstrate that we are rebuilding the country as soon as possible, 19 billion dollars. As a person who touches science, education is also very pleasant to me, in fact, the fact that at the bomb shelter, at the school shelter, we also predicted 1.5 billion dollars. The two billion that will go to the State Regional Development Fund, we also hope to protect our children. In general, the budget actually differs from the minimum number of rights and propositions given, at least in our call -- 1 thousand 270, more or less they were constructive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u148	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Burmić Anatoly Petrovich, deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Dimitrik Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u149	Please give the floor to the MP, Dmitri Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, we are all well aware of the importance of this budget next year. Dozens of years on the street of Gruszewski have been treated with various assets, but we have never been with you in the midst of a full - scale war for our existence, both as a nation and as a nation. The government rightly called it the budget of a warring country. Over 1.1 trillion dollars in Ukrainian defense. This significant contribution to the protection of our territory is intended to provide further effective resistance to the aggressor. Even under such conditions, however, we preserve the social protection of Ukrainian citizens. The Ukraine Recovery Group has been actively involved in the development of budget proposals. For example, the question was whether it was appropriate to provide for the state funding of political parties when our main party was our defenders and the whole of Ukraine. This article is worth over 360 million dollars. And this money can be redistributed to the rehabilitation of military personnel, to pay people's wages. We have also seen the potential for increasing education and health care costs. Increasing the support of our citizens of the interior. At the same time, we have not moved any government priority and consider this to be a fairly responsible approach. Of course, our group will vote in favour of this draft budget for 2023. Because in it, apart from defense and saved socio-standards, we see a significant decrease in expenditure on state apparatus that will not have a negative impact on its effectiveness. All programs are being maintained to support our business. Finally, we are investing in Ukraine's further recovery under the Fund to Eliminate the Effects of Armed Aggression and Other Articles. We consider this resource worthy of the support of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Igor Fedorovich Molotok, MP for the Future. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Dear Sergey Mikhailovich! Igor Molotock, the Matter. The "For the Future" MP will, of course, support the draft budget for 2023. Obviously, it has been the most difficult since the time of independent Ukraine. And to compare it to the cost of the previous prewar years is not right, because everything has changed. We can't be 100% sure of the macro-indicators on which the calculations were made, because the duration and consequences of the war are not projected by any expert in the world. Meanwhile, during the war, our nation has fulfilled its social obligations: pensions, wages, social assistance are paid, and all of this is prolonged for the following year. There are many factors that depend on the implementation of the budget for 2023. But the most important thing is the achievements of the Armed Forces on the front. And we give first place in this budget to help and support our Armed Forces, because this is the guarantee of our lives, the life of a free and independent country. It is also an important factor in the restoration of our country. We have set up a fund to deal with the consequences of armed aggression, and by putting money there from the forced removal of Russian Federation property, we will restore Ukraine at the expense of those who destroyed it. This also requires the support of our legal partners. The matter has lost nearly 3,000 homes, both schools and kindergartens. And the cross-border substance suffers daily from explosions. Another important factor, dear colleagues, is the respectable Sergey Mihajlovich, I wanted them to pay attention to education. We have to increase the education subsidy until the second reading because we risk leaving the education community without pay. We must remember that only an educated nation can be truly free.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, then Ivan Ivanovich. Is he or isn't he? Oh, yes. And then we'll finish. Fed Sofia Romanovna is handing Nina Petrovna. Yeah? Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we don't have a broadcast. I thought we were going to have a very frank conversation, because we're going to be taking the budget next war year. I don't understand colleagues who say they've seen a lot of budgets in this room or been members of the budget committee for eight years. Let's look at this budget for all the figures that are set in it, we're going to have to live the next war year, a terrible war year. I'm talking to the Minister of Finance. Well, stop saying that these are all forces focused on the security and defence sectors and that these are incredibly large resources that are being allocated in the next budget. Did the result of the account’s salary read? There's 1 trillion 121.1 that's 244.4 billion more than the budget, the nominal budget for the 22nd year. But taking into account the funds allocated from the contingency fund, that's 102.7 billion less than in the current year 2022. We've counted inflation for the next year, that's minus 300 billion in security and defence. Have you heard of this? Do you think about that? I don't mind. At the committee meeting, we were told that the cash costs were much lower. But then be like this, so that you can properly plan all the money that is surplus, taking into account the cash costs, and focus on social protection. Because not counting the expected inflation and leaving behind the minimum wage and the minimum cost of living at the rate we took in 2021 for 2022 and started working from the first. minimum wage of 1 October is 6,700. If we do not take into account all our urgent needs for our people, then we are completely creating a wrong budget. I'm saying that we have a resource that can be redistributed. Because in fact, military spending in 2022, cash costs are lower than even planned. Is that an explanation? Yes. Now let's form a budget that's closer to the actual costs that we're going to make. Don't put on pillows that you're manipulating and saying that you're overcoming the revenue plan. You've formed, you're going to have to look at the exact revenue section right now, because the tax base, even in these days, we've changed it. You didn't count the same excise. And yet, let's face it, you're talking about the defense and security sector, you're not taking the road fund spending amendment again. It's 68.3 billion you're planning to roll back into the asphalt and add another one to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u155	The word is given to the national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, after John Ivanovich's speech, I would like to remind you that we give six more minutes to the National Deputies, and then we vote on the decision to be taken on the basis of the committee's preparation. And then, if there's any amendments or statements, the speeches and then finally we're voting the final vote on acceptance as a basis. So the first vote will be in literally 7-8 minutes. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u156	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Today we are looking at the budget probably the most complex budget I have personally had to see in this session room. And we understand that this budget, which is formed in terms of war, is the Russian aggression that our neighbour is leading against our country. When Ukrainian infrastructure is being destroyed, when people are forced to leave their homes, when they have left their homes, when, in fact, the economy is in an extremely deplorable state, and even the taxes provided for in the income part of the budget are being paid insufficiently. And there's a lot to understand, and even the fact that we're going to have an increased budget deficit because we understand that the country is fighting and that the country needs to be protected. But if you look at, and what we can't understand as the Fatherland faction, it's like in our country, where inflation was more than 30 percent this year, it was much more real inflation that affected every Ukrainian and their purchasing power. 30 percent of inflation is projected next year. In fact, people have become more than twice as poor as possible to buy what they need to survive. And in these circumstances, they didn't find the opportunity, even out of borrowing, but a little bit of raising social standards. Well, I'm sorry, but the minimum pension in the 2093 bracelet, which is budgeted for 2023, can't be a survivor for these costs, especially the people in the front lines. Those people who were forced to leave their homes and now have to hide somewhere, what do they have to live for, what do they need to buy and feed their families for? The same is true of the minimum wage that remains on the same scale. We can't understand why the budget doesn't, even though there is an attempt to service the government debt that is set for the next year at 326 billion dollars, not to restructure, including debt servicing, so that we don't have to have the funds that Ukraine so needs today, the Armed Forces of Ukraine and ordinary Ukrainians so that these funds can be channelled to these urgent needs. For the Fatherland faction, each budget is not primarily a budget for eating, but it is a budget for understanding how the Ukrainian state and every Ukrainian will live. And it's from these premeditations that we make decisions, we can support or we can't. Unfortunately, even understanding all the challenges facing Ukraine, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u157	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have completed the presentations by MP factions and groups. We've got six more minutes -- speeches from the national MPs, so I'm asking the national MPs to sign up. Presentations from the National Deputies. Please give the floor to National Deputy Lis Oleni Georgievni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u158	Please pass the word Shpak to Love.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u159	Please, Mrs. Love Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u160	Realizing that this is the budget of a warring country, we still want to look to the social sphere. Because many today remain outside the poverty line. The actual freezing of basic social standards, primarily the size of the minimum pension, will lead to a significant increase in poverty in our country in 2023. According to World Bank experts in 2023, the proportion of the population of Ukraine living outside poverty may increase to 60 percent. So this is relative to, say, this number right over here, this was 2 percent in 2021, from 2 percent to 60 percent. In addition, as a result of the increase in poverty, taxes on existing social assistance programmes will also increase, taking into account the material situation of recipients, such as housing subsidies, aid to the underprivileged. But these corresponding expenses, they're reduced in the budget for today. There is also no compensation for tariffs. It's about the minimum of living. We understand that the subsistence minimum is the basic national social standard, on which all social guarantees and standards are to be determined. This is guaranteed by article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Pensions and other social benefits should be worthy of Ukrainians. We can also observe that, since January 2023, the minimum of living per person has been set at 2,000,589 dollars, as opposed to the minimum wage of 6,000,500 dollars already in August 2022. Do you imagine this difference for today? We also have a minimum pension of 2 000 93 bracelets. Try living on 2,000 93 bracelets a month. Is that even possible? These are pensioners who need not only food but also treatment. So we bring them here today, they can't survive on that kind of money. In this regard, I would like to draw the attention of all deputies to these figures and point out that somehow our population should survive this period, even though our budget for today is a warring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u161	Thank you. The word is Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u162	Please give the word to Alexander Pasic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u163	Please, Alexander Pasicky.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u164	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the 2023 State Budget project is the budget of wartime, the budget of a war country is the budget for our victory. 870 billion are the cost of the Ministry of Defence, and nearly 50 percent of the expenditure will go to national security and defence -- more than 1 trillion 100 billion dollars. Social support is the second priority of the budget. The budget preserves all social security payments made by the State. The draft budget also has new programs that will help stimulate economic recovery, these are grants for business creation and development. The restoration of damaged infrastructure as a result of war is a fund to eliminate the effects of armed aggression, 19 billion dollars, and to grant authority to local self-governance authorities in the corrupt, temporarily occupied and other areas of Ukraine that have had a negative impact on the full-scale aggression of the Russian Federation, nearly 24 billion dollars. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the committee of the ministries who have prepared the draft budget and have worked with the Committee on Budgets in the working groups in today's critical circumstances. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u165	Thank you. I mean, it's probably going to be the final performance. Oddczuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party Voice. You do not have the microphone on, please insert the card. Please, my friends, Vasilchenko. Did you want to be here? You're handing over Vasilchenko? Vasilchenko, please, Galina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u166	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, this is probably the first time in this cadence a bill that I, on my part and many of my colleagues, appreciate quite positively. Obviously, and logically, most of the expenditure in this project is directed to the defense of the state, because we are in a state of war, in a state of defense of our country. At the same time, however, we cannot forget about such important humanitarian areas as education, medicine, culture, and, in particular, local self - government. Of course, it's worth noting that 64 percent of the PDF is still there, that the PDF is still there, because there were risks that could be taken into the state budget. But I would also like to remind you, Mr. Ruslane, as well as colleagues from the Committee on Local Self-Government, that literally two weeks ago at the local self-government forum in Lviv, which was joined by members of the community live or online practically from all over Ukraine, we were discussing the preservation of a reverse grant on the spot next year, because this is essentially going to help the communities survive during the war. Because many communities, especially in Western Ukraine, are taking in a large and very large number of our internally displaced persons, and it is clear that there is an increasing pressure on the educational, medical field. And this all needs extra funding. In particular, I have made a series of 20 adjustments for the support of local self - government, namely, a fair distribution of financial resources for the proper administration of local self - government. And we also have to remember the Energy Efficiency Fund. Regrettably, the project does not have energy efficiency funds at all. We've been talking about this for years. And if we don't find these energy efficiency costs, it's getting harder and harder for us to go through the heating seasons. This year, more than ever, we understand the importance of taking energy efficiency measures. And actually, one of my amendments is about finding and predicting this kind of money. The figures I mentioned on internally displaced persons also require us to count. I hope that the committee will be given a proper mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers to take these indicators into account, and the budget will be distributed fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, the first reading of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2023 has been completed. And now we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, we're taking our seats, we're voting now for acceptance as a foundation. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the basis of the budget committee's draft Decree (Registration No. 8,000/P) on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:28]] For 269 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'll just tell you the script further, if you don't mind. After the draft ruling is adopted, we will put to the vote those included in the table of proposals for consideration, which the national MP insists on. We agreed with some factions and groups that they would take a few minutes to perform instead of performing. But there are those who want to bet. But I think we're going to try to compromise somehow. After that, we put, as always, those that are to be considered, then, if they are to be confirmed, and then we vote with you another vote to adopt the entire draft state budget proposals. If we don't vote him out of the blue, don't let God in, we're gonna have to get together soon. In addition, if we support or fail to support any amendment or proposal that will lead to a change or balance of conclusions, we will have to come together again in two days to re-vote. It is just me that we take seriously those questions and those suggestions that will be taken seriously. Do you have a deal, colleagues? That's why we voted. We had an agreement, we're giving 10 minutes to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko instead of the amendments that the faction makes, and then we're still going to be or someone else will be. Then four or five minutes of Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov and two minutes of Shpak. And then we're with European Solidarity. You will, too, won't you? You're a performer, right? Please, Julia Volodymyrna, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that there is no Prime Minister, the government, as always, when the budget is reported and when it is accepted. This has always been a parliamentary practice. Because when the budget was received in this room, it never went formally. He had never been without substantive discussions and changes. I'm sorry there's no government and no Prime Minister now. What I'm about to say in this budget, don't take in any way as a criticism of the minister of finance or the ministry as a whole. Because in fact, at such a difficult time as today, we needed to produce, at the level of the higher leadership of the state, approaches to the concept of how to actually form the budget of Ukraine during the war. What the Ministry of Finance does, they just do technical work and do things that are, let's say, rows. But the budget for this year and in the next row is impossible to form. I'm going to tell you a few things that I think just a little bit will make you think about. Just think about it. The budget revenue for the next year is 1 trillion 280 billion. But the return and servicing of both domestic and external debt is 741 billion. If you count it, that's almost 60 percent of the government budget's revenue next year. You have no idea what that is. This means that the debt wrong policy actually ate up the entire budget that Ukraine has. You know what 741 billion is? In dealing properly with debts, we might not simply be able to index pensions, wages, give more real to the defence and security, give real money to rebuild damaged housing for the people. We could do a lot of things, but we didn't, because what's going on looks like this. Right now, I'd like your special attention. Of the 741 billion dollars in debt, the left-hand side makes up absolutely the domestic debt of Ukraine. What Is Internal Debt? It's an issue of the National Bank of Ukraine that goes into the government budget. It's a colossal financial resource. It's about to be understood, just by the percentages paid by the state budget, by the National Bank, it's about 300 billion dollars. Do you know what percentage the National Bank issues to the state budget? Do any of you know? 25 percent per year, 300 billion dollars. I'm just wondering, does anyone care about these numbers? Do you know what they said to me? They said, but it's no big deal, the same money that goes to pay for this interest on GDP, it's an internal debt, it's an issue, they come back from the National Bank in terms of budget income, it's essentially the National Bank's income. Now, attention, if we pay about 300 billion dollars per cent, and that's 25 percent of the annual emissions, then the National Bank of Budget, which we've been given, will only pay 19.3 billion. I have a simple question, it's arithmetic. Where in the National Bank, which owes all the money to return to the budget, does the entire income of the National Bank minus their salary, some loss, why does 300 billion pay go back 19.3? Do you know where? Because the National Bank also has a pyramid, it's called "deposit certificates." The National Bank is now borrowing money and it's using deposit certificates to pay off the crazy, complicated percentages that come out of annual amounts that I just don't want to call you. I just want to find the answer to the question: who are the commercial banks that make their way into the National Bank, the National Bank's income, from 25 percent of the annual emissions? Can anyone explain that to me? I'm saying this because I know perfectly well the finances of both the budget and the National Bank. And what I'm telling you is it's not just corruption, it's essentially a building pump in the budget today and in the National Bank that's pumping out the money that had to go into defense, into social protection and so on. How can we deal with this? You have to take the experience of 1999 when there was a rather difficult situation, and then you do a very simple thing: you freeze this cancer tumor for eight years, it's a cancer tumor, believe me, it's a financial pyramid, it's frozen, and no money was paid by the state budget. And then for 10 years, they did a procedure called re-failing, and it stretched these payments that were frozen for 10 years, and those payments came right back from the National Bank as a budget revenue. This is how government officials behave. And the fact that today 60 percent of the income part of the budget has been virtually overrun has been taken into the states during the war on filigreed financial technologies, someone has to be responsible. But that's not all, we still have external debts. And I don't understand when we have force majeure, why as a minimum, emweef debt, World Bank debt, why they're not restructured or written off. But there's another part of it -- it's our Eurobonds, it's what's borrowed in the markets. Do you know how much the nominal value of our Eurobonds in the markets costs today? Do any of you have a number? About 16 to 20 percent of the nominal. This means that the right policy would be to buy now, including the borrowed money, for 16 percent of the nominal, our external debt, we have 22.5 billion dollars per minute. But someone still has virtually no debt. But what is happening today? Today, those who know how to buy out our Eurobonds by 16, 17, 18 percent of the nominal and then present the budget by 100 percent of the nominal, plus percent. Dear friends, I'm just, frankly, in 10 minutes to focus on how to build a budget during the war and save the entire revenue part and multiply it, I can't now read the alphabet. But I can say that either someone in the matter, and in the fate, or the Prime Minister, is simply an incompetent person to go through these difficult trials in such a difficult time. I can tell you that finding a solution and putting into this budget is a week of time and having an additional 741 billion to support the country. Now, I have an alternative budget in my hands with our rights, which is definitely far from population. This is what I told you about, this is what the state budget would look like in this situation. It's not a reduction in health spending, when we have injured people you know how much, not a reduction in subsidies for people on energy, not a reduction in costs for defence and safety, and definitely for children under 6 years of age -- 2 000, 272 dollars of minimum living. From this, all social protection counts. What are we doing with the country? I want to tell you that there is a way out. And this solution is professional, correct, effective, which would give the country a normal time. I'm not talking about 74 billion to build roads anymore. Dear friends, there are no budget roads in the world. There are no such countries to illustrate. It's built on the basis of any other financial instruments, a lot of them. Involve unlimited money in the world and build roads. But during the war, 74 billion brothers on the road and then, you know, between 30 and 40 percent off -- well, it's not human, it's not national or it's non-patriotic. So, of course, we're not going to push the red button, and I want to break this budget for at least 20 criminal cases. But I want to tell you that the country is obliged in such a difficult time to have strong, effective professional management, not corruption and not stupidity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, we continued to speak, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov. 4 or 5? Five minutes. Then the Pack is two minutes. Then Koltunović – 2 minutes, then Volinec – 3 minutes. And then Vasilchenko is four minutes and Mushroom is one minute. Yeah? Thank you. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u170	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the important question today is the State Budget for 2023. And in the warring state, the military must be the key priority. Indeed, the budget provides 1.1 trillion dollars for the security and defence sector, for the army, about 850 billion dollars. These are more than serious indicators. In parallel, however, you and I have to point out the fact that there are issues in the budget that should really be the issues of our anti-corruption bodies. These are also the interests of the gaming business when some lottery favorites and their preferences are set at 87 million dollars. Please tell me, would it be a waste of money for the Ukrainian army, for the Ukrainian medics and for the Ukrainian teachers? When they try to reduce funding for medicine and tell us that we have lost some of our territory. Thanks to our army, we are returning these territories, and we are returning very quickly. And tomorrow, hospitals will have to be rehabilitated, and doctors will be returned, given a job, and given a new technique to treat Ukrainians. The same situation with schools, with higher schools, with kindergartens, how many were bombarded by Russians, how many were destroyed. And today we have to do everything we can to prepare ourselves to give quality education to our future, to our children with you. There are many questions today. There are issues related to business recovery. In this budget and for 2022 nothing was laid, and for 2023 nothing was laid down to return the Ukrainian business to the territories, to allow them to work again, to create conditions where business would be convenient to return to Kiev, Montenegro, Kharkish, to resume their activities, to return jobs and to pay taxes. This is not happening, and the budget does not ask these questions again. But there's a whole new line of skins in the budget when almost 1.5 billion dollars are spent on financing Russian channels for pretty Russians. We don't have a place to spend money? Or do we set out for construction. I'm going to need a big building, a big reconstruction, and a great future. But all this is possible immediately after the great victory that the Ukrainian people will gain. And if we disperse our budget now, we're not going to get anything and we're going to lose the state. Today we need to act like the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian army: do everything for victory, not for their pockets, like some of our colleagues in this room and not just in this room, and the journalistic investigations are already starting to talk about it. We also face great challenges in supporting the ranks of the people affected by war today are the most vulnerable groups of the population. Today, in the profile committees, in the Tax and Customs Committee, there's a bill that was drafted by us that actually makes it possible to write down the mortgage and other loans for the people who lost it, just like the foam, and the loans. But the committee head continues to keep him there. We have a policy, unfortunately, in this room, that continues to wash in front of the common sense and priorities of our citizens with you and our nation during the war. So let's look at the budget that we're going to take with you. We've passed a lot of lines. It's also supporting agriculture enterprises to 4 billion dollars, and allocating, redistributing resources to medicine, redistributing resources to business support, redistributing resources to our teachers with you and indexing pensions, which is now being told what they're going to do next year after the first quarter. I'd like to remind everyone, this year we have 30 inflation and the next year we have 30 inflation. Let's think about the fact that people will have to live for the first quarter, not just the MPs, not just the wages and not just their curiosity, but the people. And that's exactly what should be put into the budget for 2023, or we're not going to have a budget or a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shpak Love Alexandrovna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Two minutes instead of their shifts. Please, Alexander's Love.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u172	I also wanted to pay attention to the operation of businesses in the following year. The corresponding projected rise in natural gas prices, the energy crisis that exists, is the biggest threat for Ukrainian industrial enterprises today, because they are forced to buy gas at market prices today. Thus, the energy crisis will have a negative impact on the volume of industrial production and will have a corresponding impact on the decline in domestic gross earnings. Business support, is it budgeted? No, there's not for today. I'm sorry. As a result, citizens are also severely affected, primarily by a decline in income. As we have already noted, in two years almost minus 70 purchasing powers. So we have almost 70 percent of the inflation, the increase in consumer prices in two years -- 2022 and 3rd year, leaving all the income at the same level fixed, so we freeze. So we're essentially 2.5 times lowering the cost of living. What awaits us today? We do not have, I repeat, an increase in housing subsidies or a corresponding increase in low - income families. Instead, these articles are understatement today. Think about it. There is also no article on differences in tariffs. How people live to be 2023 is what's interesting today. Outside of poverty, that's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, two minutes, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Please prepare, Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u174	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I had the opportunity to present an analysis of the budget during the presentation and when there were questions today. I'm just now focusing on individual proposals. We made 15 amendments to the first reading of the budget for 2023. They relate primarily to increasing funding for internally displaced persons. It's important for today, I think, even if it's necessary, it doesn't have to be updated and explained. The next step is to increase funding for the National Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Sciences. And of course, it's primarily an increase in funding and the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum pension, and so on. I've already argued that today, because in the context of the 69 percent inflation and devaluation of 83 percent to 50 dollars per dollar, the indexation is going to take place or at least a partial indexation. Because today it is a base that will continue to reflect economic activity and slow down economic activity due to lower demand. And then the next moment. We've also offered wage constraints to officials, board members and so forth at 10 minimum wages to minimize these excess costs and optimize the budget spending, and to diversify these costs to support the rows. the most vulnerable species. I want to conclude by saying that the budget is the result of the economic policy of today's government from the 19th to the 22nd year inclusive. With the exception of the defensive part in this budget, it's personal for me, not 20th, not 21st, not 22nd, it's absolutely no different, so our group will support it, but we're still paying your attention to the fact that without changing economic policy, the economic exchange rate will not change your budget, it will be in the next year, and it will be in the same year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, I give the floor to National Deputy Volin Mikhail Yakovitch, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union," three minutes. After that Vasilchenko – 4 minutes, Grib – 1. I can't hear you here. Look, we agreed: 10 minutes -- Julia Volodymyrna, 3 minutes -- Volinec. All of it. After that, we'll have Vasilchenko – 4 minutes, 1 minute – Mushroom and then we'll move on to the amendments. God, I mean, I'm sorry, Fatherland. Well, freedom is an inner spirit, Mikhail Yakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, thank you for such activity and excitement in Parliament. People's Deputy Wolinitz, Fatherland faction. Dear friends, the leader of the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko has put forward fundamental questions in 10 minutes that concern the formation of the 23rd year budget, but in even 10 minutes it was impossible to stop at the aspects of individual chapters, so I have been asked to speak on questions, social issues, social issues. Look, 20 to 30 percent of the workforce voluntarily went to the front. And for example, on the Ingula mine, where uranium ore is mined, almost all the members of the team, members of the Ukrainian Independent Mining Federation, went to the front. And there's six months' salary debt. And the budget doesn't put these issues on a state level. We worked at every position of supply. Motherland has made hundreds more proposals, but they are largely off-limits. I want to say that the draft budget for this year is at least two thousand 481 dollars. It's freezing, the minimum wage is set at 6,000, 700 dollars, and the inflation is set at 31 percent. We understand that this is a budget for poverty. The Fatherland faction predicts that the subsistence minimum should not be less than 9,000,252 bracelets and the minimum wage at this level should be. But given that we are in a state of war, even the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum of living, should be gradually increased, quarterly. And that's not happening, that's not even in the budget. Dear friends depend on the minimum wage on the minimum wage. Look, we've been looking at bill 3663 on the liquidation of the Social Insurance Fund today, and no one has said that the salary debt there is 3 billion. The Fatherland faction made specific proposals there, namely, unpaid hospitals, maternity care and so on. The 23rd year draft explanatory note explains that there is a total of 1 billion 100 million employees in Ukraine. Only in the coal sector is 1 billion 500 million. We also made proposals in the coal sector, and unfortunately, they are not included. Coal funding at the level of 3 billion 8 last year is available.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u177	Thank you, Michael Jacobovich. It's from the Fatherland faction. No, no, Basilchenko first. Well, come on, if you don't mind, we'll get you. National Deputy Grib, then National Deputy Vasilchenko. Mushroom National Deputy, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, in this budget, I have applied for compensation for energy. Because all energy companies, both public and private, are now virtually bankrupt. And we've already passed the same law with you, in which we have approved compensation for NAC Naftogazu. Because our previous movements, when we decided not to raise heating tariffs, to utilities, just led to the fact that companies are now bankrupting. Regrettably, these amendments were not confirmed. And I'm asking very much that in the future, in the Ministry of Finance, you might want to look at the possibility of taking these rights, because energy is still the engine of the economy. If we don't, we'll all be, you know, not a parliamentary word, I won't talk to him, but we'll be where we're not better off. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u179	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now invite you to the final exchange of my amendments for the address of National Deputy Vasilchenko Galin Ivanovna. Four minutes. I'm going to ask the people's deputies to the hall, because there will be further amendments to the faction of European Solidarity. Do I get it all right? Please, Mrs. Galina Ivanovna Vasilchenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u180	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, I've briefly outlined the priorities that we have, especially with our colleagues, we have made a series of 20 amendments that apply to several blocks. First of all, it's business support. Because the government needs to understand clearly that business support is a direct aid to the budget. Because the more and better our business is going to work, the better conditions are going to be created for it, the more conditions are restored, the more income in the budget, so that we can effectively spend on some of the other needs. In addition, another block of our amendments applied to the Energy Efficiency Fund and, in particular, to support the sphere. Another block of our amendments, the largest block, involved the support of local self - government. And I'd like to pay attention to a few amendments. Now, my appeal to the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers is that they pay attention in their work and take into account the key positions that we insist on. In particular, Amendment 276 on horizontal taxation of local budgets. Amendment 675 is the help of war veterans. Amendment 720 is about the Energy Efficiency Fund I mentioned. Amendment 804 is an enterprise development fund. Amendments 1097, 1102 are rights that apply to educational subsidies and generally to students. Amendment 1105, which I mentioned in my previous speech, which applies to the calculation of internally displaced persons in the formation of various subsidies to be taken into account. And 1190, which refers to adequate financing of health and education. And I can't help but mention the very important moment, amendment 1241, which provides for a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for national patriotic education. We all understand how important this aspect is now and relevant. And this is from the center: from the government budget, from the Cabinet of Ministers, it's going to be this kind of initiative. And in every community, in every O.T., in every city or village, appropriate measures must be taken, and adequate funding must be provided for national patriotic care. So once again, I call on representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance to look at these key points, namely, business support, energy efficiency, health and education support, and the Energy Efficiency Fund. We believe that these key things are essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've talked about, like, all the factions have said, they've replaced their amendments with performances. I'm asking Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Arthur Volodymyrovich, here we go, right? Who's it gonna be? Nina Petrovna Yuzanin, call the amendment number, and then we vote. At first, as we agreed, we are voting for the amendments that are now binding, a moment that is related to consideration, then, if there are any amendments that are related, for confirmation. Let's start with the ones that count. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u182	Unfortunately, with respect to the committee's proposals, well, there were few deputies present, so I'm going to have to explain to those who think.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u183	Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u184	178, my first amendment. What we talked about was not achieved. Although everyone seems to understand the contents of the amendments, they proved to be unaccounted for. 178th. To establish that 50 percent of the State Road Fund, as an exception to article 24.2 of the Budget Code in 2023, is aimed at providing for the defence sector’s needs, as well as at least 10 billion dollars for the construction and reconstruction of international vehicles. This goes back to the standard we accepted by the end of 2022. We've already talked about it in the hall. It's absolutely acceptable that we don't spend cloudy money on roads that already do, now it's the size of a 65 billion road fund, so they don't spend everyone on roads, because that's what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 178 amendments to Nina Petrovna’s authorship. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:46]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Can I have your procedure, please? Please, Herasimov from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u186	I am very grateful that the committee head is in the rostrum. We were just about to contact you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, to have a committee representative in the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u187	He's in the stands. Thank you. I see him. You see? He is. Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, next. Please, Nina Petrovna, what's the number? Start with the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u188	179 revisions. I'm calling on the committee head. Mr. Yuri, you are looking into the eyes of all the people's deputies. If, in the 22nd year, we were able to allocate substantial funds from the road fund to the army, why do you think that in the 23rd year, we're all billions, already 80 billion, we're going to be rolling into asphalt? Please take a look at this amendment: 50 percent of the State Road Fund’s funds are aimed at meeting the defence sector’s needs. You're absolutely loyal and you're going to stay in front of the country in good shape, and you're not going to be able to account for your own budget that you're now accepting.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u189	179 amendment, I understand that, Nina Petrovna? Nina Petrovna, please start with the number. This is 179th? Yuri Yuriovich, do you have an answer for 179? Briefly, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u190	Thank you for the offer, but the committee does not support this amendment. Because I think that when foreigners feel like themselves in Russia, they say we had a saying like that. Do you feel like yourself? They're fools and roads. In Ukraine, fools have already decreased, and we have European roads. I mean, I think we need to build them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u191	179 of Nina Petrovna’s amendment, she was rejected by the committee. You heard the arguments. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:27]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u192	180 repairs. I think the country will appreciate what you just said, 50 percent of everything to send to the defence and security sector during the war doesn't bother the Servants. How could that be? You're not afraid of anything? The 180 amendment is for a portion of the road fund to target at least 10 billion to build and reconstruct international roadblocks. Why is there no will? You don't even think about how the economy is going to continue to exist, and sometimes this bottleneck for our exports that's all gone through the car passes? From a political point of view, do you not actually want to channel the funds there?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u193	The 180th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:47]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Next number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u194	205 amendment. You guys don't hear what I'm talking about? I absolutely urge you to accept the normal things, not to waste your reserves there, which you would like to direct somewhere. I'm going to need a 205 amendment. Colleagues, during the war, one of the articles of the Budget Code was abolished that, in the absence of the work of the Supreme Council, the decision on the formation of the contingency fund and the spending of the reserve fund is made exclusively by the Cabinet of Ministers. We need to get that paper back to normal from the very beginning. If the Supreme Council started to work, then all the decisions are made, all the budget changes are made exclusively through the Supreme Council, there is always a perfectly healthy form. You have succeeded in lifting this requirement when the Supreme Council does not work. Mr. Stefanchuk, please return.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u195	What can I get you, Nina Petrovna? I can't turn anything back except for the decision of the hall. So I'm just putting 205 of Nina Petrovna's amendment. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:26]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u196	268th. At the committee meeting, it was said that the Supreme Council could not take decisions on budget changes because it was not in session. So I have addressed you, Mr. Head, what you have to say is that the Supreme Council is able to gather when the country needs it during the war, and we are already working. And 205 amendments you should first put on confirmation and stand up for the function, the basic function, the people's deputies of the Supreme Council to remain behind us. 268 amendments were made with the footnote "to the government." I hope that if inflation increases, the government will still review all the spending in terms of minimum wage and minimum wage. You can't bet on confirmation. The government commission, I hope, Mr. Aristov, you will find a solution to this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u197	Nina Petrovna, look, this amendment is partially taken into account. You used a minute after it, as I might not put it, but it might fail now, it'll be bad. Let's just put the corrections that are rejected. This amendment, it's partially accounted for, and it's a government order, let's get out of this. Huh? Look, okay, I can put it, but what's the point, it's already. All right, your honor, 268 revisions, Jujanina. It's partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:23]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Next amendment, what's Nina Petrovna's number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u198	289. Mr. Head, if you've seen the past budget, the government's mandate always ends with nothing. So the first draft of the law remains and nothing changes. That's why I explained. But I hope there's an interest in both the "ministers of the people," and the whole room about the cost also changing if inflation increases, because there's going to be the same excess inflation revenue. As for 289 revisions. Absolutely, the government is now going to have to count the revenue portion, because over this period we changed the legislation here in the hall and we have an additional revenue, in my estimate of 43.8 billion dollars. Please support Amendment 289.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u199	289 Amendments to the Jujana Committee have been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:36]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u200	The 290 amendment refers to exactly what these additional 43.9s should be made of. The income of the general fund under the tax revenue code increases 36.1 billion dollars, which consists of future revenue, a calculation made on the basis of the supplements proposed for the budget. Please support 290 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u201	The 290 amendment of the Jujana Committee was rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:26]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u202	Nina Petrovna's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u203	291 revisions. So the income of the special fund under the tax revenue code, and this is the special fund that gets excise revenue from the sale of fuel, has to be increased by 7.7 billion dollars. Because the reduced rates under the law that we have adopted will only take effect until 01.07, and from 01.07 we will be able to recover the full stakes on fuel. And we've seen various amendments, these increases can go up to 10 billion, and it'll all go back on the road. If Minfin doesn't count correctly now, it's going to be again some kind of overcoming. So I'd like to take the figure into account, and Minfin can further refine it on a full count.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, the 291 amendment of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:44]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u205	Next amendment 296. The thing is, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u206	It is included in part, too, in Nina Petrovna. Maybe we should. Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u207	I understand that 296th, Mr. Yuri, 298th, 299th and 300th are partially accounted for, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u208	Yeah, that's what the chart says.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u209	I'll talk to him for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u210	Please give me one minute and we won't put them on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u211	And we're not going to bet on confirmation then. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking to the Minister of Finance right now. Mr. Sergei, look, I'm asking you to pay attention, and it's not my initiative, it's yours. In the Tax Code, taxes on tobacco products, excise taxes on tobacco products are set in bracelets. And under the European Union Directive, we have to reach 95 euros in the coming years. Now the rate in the bracelet, taking into account the rate, corresponds to 47 euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u212	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, what's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u213	Next amendment 513. I'm quite clear on what should be listed as the revenue part, and it's going to be counted, and this is yours, the tobacco initiative, because there's a huge reserve here for imported tobacco products, and for domestic production. I suggest you increase the cost of additional revenue by 43.8 billion. 513 revisions. This is for the modernization and repair of weapons, not just for the defence and security sector, but for program 2101150. To increase by 10 billion on the extra revenue that I just said. Please support the 513 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, the 513 amendment of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:12]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next, Nina Petrovna. Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u215	1197.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u216	Nina Petrovna, can we not jump in order?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u217	All right? It's gonna be really hard for me, too, 'cause I've got them all scattered out.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u218	Nina Petrovna, look, well, you see there's no potential in voting. Why don't we just move on to some constructive, state-owned thing?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u219	317 revisions. Please understand, though, that everyone speaks in political terms, and no one wants to look at the figures. 317 revisions. We're starting to match the cost because no one wants to. Minfin doesn't want to fight with other wardens, the Prime Minister doesn't exist at all, the budget is now under consideration. No one wants to take over the expenses of each supervisor to inspect them and determine which expenses there is a huge reserve. We took it and explained that we cut it by 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u220	317 of Jujanina’s amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:39]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u221	The next 319 is an amendment. We're afraid to give up our loved ones, because it's these changes that affect the reduction of expenses on the Supreme Council, Mr. Stefanchuk. We have to be honest with people when we say that we're cutting the current costs for everyone, and we're increasing the Supreme Council, I don't understand how you're going to explain to Ukrainian citizens. Please support the 319 amendment and reduce by 97 million the expenses of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u222	Nina Petrovna, what do you want from me? You remember me all the time. What am I doing here? Can you just explain it to me? I think it's about all the deputies. But I'm putting 319 amendments. It was just a right to reply, you keep reminding me of some sort of internal, probably belief. Please, I'm ready. 319, Jujanina’s amendment, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:57]] For-68 Nina Petrovna, I even supported your amendment. Not enough: 68-in. The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, what's the second number, the next?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u223	325. Why am I addressing you personally? Because I want you not to perform a mechanical function, but you've heard and supported at least once in a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u224	I supported you, Nina Petrovna, but I supported you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u225	Yeah, yeah. So the next amendment concerns the same Supreme Council, this is a reduction of the cost by 101 million to service and organizational, information and analysis, material and technical security. Enough money to spend. We can spend as much as we spent in the 22nd year. So all I took off was an overexpenditure for the next year. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u226	Nina Petrovina’s 325th amendment, rejected by the committee. Vote please, colleagues. [[13:50:14]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Again, Nina Petrovna was missing. What's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u227	In these. 327. In this 101 million extra funds for the Supreme Council there are 95 million dollars for the payroll fund compared to other central executive authorities. We've been working on the committee on this question, but in fact, no one wants to answer what it is, which is planned for the increase compared to the 22nd year in the 23rd year. We can talk about what they don't want to cut the budget, but we're responsible people, we have to understand that this petty salary that's being paid to us right now, let it stay the same for the next year. Please support the 327 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u228	327 of Nina Petrovna’s amendment It's rejected by the committee. Please, please, identify and vote. [[13:51:30.]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, maybe you can see that there's no potential in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u229	There are faction leaders, please, we have a faction decision, we all put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u230	You have a free faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u231	We're all making adjustments for confirmation, considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u232	Please, yes. Nina Petrovna, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u233	334 revisions. We're starting with the activity of the president of Ukraine, the state administration of matters. I understand everything, but if there's more spending planned for this institution than it's already done and it's planned to be done by the end of the 22nd year, agree, it's wrong. Minus 92 million dollars I'm proposing to withdraw from the spending on services and organizational, information and analysis of the President's Office. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u234	The 334th Amendment of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:43]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u235	336. In these 92 million there are the development costs of 70 million, and I suggest that they be made in line with all the expenditures of others throughout the CEV. Please support 336 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u236	336 of the Jujanina Amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:28]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u237	343rd. I hope that at the sanatorium, which belongs to the DUS, you will definitely reduce and leave the costs at 22 years. This is Amendment 343. Please reduce your expenses and bring them back to the 22nd year by 2 million dollars. 343 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u238	343 of Yuzana’s amendment The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:17]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u239	The next amendment is 348. I don't understand why there are additional funding for scientific and scientific and technical activities in the area of government management of the strategic problems of internal and external policy on mediation and reconciliation in collective labour disputes. Compared to other even self-sustained expenses here, we simply have to cut expenditures by 22 million dollars to bring them in line by this year. Please support 348 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u240	The 348th Amendment of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:23]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u241	353rd. Please accept that there are certain programs that can. They can't even technically work. The next program is to preserve the natural reserve in national natural parks and reserves. I'm offering to cut the development costs by 4.8 million dollars. Please support Amendment 353.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u242	353 Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:14]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u243	Colleagues, I'm asking you all to apologize, maybe someone seems to have such small sums, but when we get to the end of my amendments, we're going to collect 4.1 billion dollars that can be used precisely for socially vulnerable sections of the population. So the next 360th amendment, it already applies to the Cabinet of Ministers. Services and organizational, information-analysing, material security of activities to reduce by 13.8 million, make it appropriate, as for all central executives.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u244	360th Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:14]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u245	Z66 in Appendix 3. You know how budget classification is built. In order to get 13.5, we need two more articles, 8.8 million. It's Kabmin again, the development costs of the global fund. Please support 366 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u246	366 of the Jujanina Amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:58]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u247	371 revisions. I refer to colleagues who do not understand why so many amendments were made. Please tell me, during the war, is there a need to increase the funding of the office for engagement and investment support? I propose in the amendment to reduce by 51 million in terms of the cost of maintaining this office. Please support 371 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u248	371 of Jujanina’s amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:52]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u249	376 revisions. Another interesting institution for supporting and promoting exports. Its spending is increased by 36.8 million dollars compared to others. That is to say, the minister said that all of our expenses had been seen and reduced as much as possible. I'm now calling it that I haven't been able to shorten the Ministry of Finance. I'm just helping you. You will support and say that these were the bad MPs who proposed such a reduction, not you. This right is not something you have taken advantage of, and that would be a good thing. Please support 376 amendments. Plus 36.8 million dollars for 2023.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u250	376 of the Jujanina Amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:53]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u251	383 refers to increasing scientific and scientific and technical activities in the field of state statistics. Well, people, I think it's basic. Yeah, I know, we're now billions, trillions counting all the numbers, so no one wants to freeze on some million. That's all we can get to raise at least a little bit of minimum standards or some programs that I'm going to keep talking about. 383 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u252	383 of Yuzana’s amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:49]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u253	The 409 amendment starts with the "maintainment of the prosecutor's office" block. Listen, well, we've already lived 2022, we're living it, we have adjusted expenses, we understand how many employees we need, how much we need to pay, how much to sustain, exactly no development. And yet if you compare the reduction that was made in all the other organs, here I suggest you put the figure in line and cut by 730.7 million dollars the cost of program 090101010. Please support the 409 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u254	409 Jujanina’s Amendment The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[2:01:55]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u255	411 repairs. You don't humiliate yourself and don't be afraid when we talk about prosecutors. They must live by the same standards as all humans. If people for 3,000 dollars a month, they have 3,000 dollars a day. So their wages can be limited to what they're getting right now. The 411 amendment is bringing the wage fund to the 22nd year level. Minus 573 million dollars is the kind of money they want to take extra to pay for their work. Do we understand what this is? Please support the 411 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u256	411 of Jujanina’s amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:02:57]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u257	413. In the Public Prosecutor's Office, the expenditure of the General Fund is reduced by 90 million, and it is also appropriate for the expenditure of 2022. That's from an amount that's almost going to go up -- 1 billion dollars for the 23rd year. Please support the 413 amendment. We know that we have sources, more loyally, of spending, where we need to go, very much, and we're still going to talk about them, and we're all going to talk about them. Support the 413 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u258	413 Amendment of the Jujana, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:58]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u259	422 is for the specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. The development costs of the global fund are reduced by 1.5 million, costing as for other CEVs, with a decrease of 10 percent, as for all. Why we are so afraid of law enforcement, we might ask. Can we bring them or force them to live like all the people in the country? 422 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u260	422 amendments were rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:57]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, would you like to be given a period of time to speak, or would you like to make some adjustments or not? Instead of making a hundred amendments, 10 minutes, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u261	431 amendments apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u262	Failed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u263	State support for the Dynamo Physculture and Sports Society of Ukraine and the organization, and for the development of physical culture and sports among employees and members of the law enforcement agencies. People, plus 32 million dollars added this year. How sporty are you going to be? Please, everyone on the front, there's a sports competition for law enforcement officials. Please support 431 revisions. It's just a wild thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u264	431 of Jujanina’s amendment. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:06:14]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, 459th. I know you haven't heard such programs, and I saw them for the first time this year, when I studied so much. So I was surprised to see how much there was to be optimized and not spent in a year of war. Scientific and scientific, 459 amendments, activities in the field of economic development of standardization, metrology and metrology. An increase of 18 million dollars. Please support and cut these expenses to 2022.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u266	459 Amendment, Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:17]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u267	465th. I'm actually saying that when there was a budget, it doesn't feel like a budget for war. Because the next program is to make mandatory tenders, professional purchases, expenses that are increased. Please tell me that you have adopted a bunch of legislation that cancels any tenders that cancels any updates on the existing system. Please support 465 amendments and leave expenses as is the case in 2022 for this state institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u268	465 Amendment, Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:08:20]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u269	470 revisions. Program "Actions to Enhance Institutional Capability to Prepare State-Private Partnership Projects." These are all those articles that can be accurately optimized by leaving them in line with the expenditure for 2022. If we win and there is a need to continue some programs, we will also have income that we can redistribute. So disrespecting what we can fix right now, so that we all think we've done everything we need, everything we can. Please support these little tails that will give us 4 billion extra dollars at the end. saved money. Please support the 470 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u270	470 of Yuzana’s amendment, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[2:09:32]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u271	Next 474. Science and Science and Technology in Industrial Security and Labour Protection. There's no work. Where will we improve, what do we increase our expenses for? We have the basic cost of protecting the work that we planned in the 22nd year. Please follow all of these articles. The committee didn't want it, they didn't want it in Minfin. If we supported these amendments, we would save a small but very large sum of 4 billion dollars. 474 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u272	474 Amendment of the Jujanina The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:34]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u273	669th. The Social Policy Leadership and Management Program. Costs of general fund development." I've heard, by the way, on the committee, when the proposals were being considered that oh, unfortunately, we have a lot of budgeters who have too little wages. So take this program and zoom in on it. Total fund development expenditure of 18 and 1 tenth. A thousand million dollars, I don't think we have a right. It is this government that requires a significant increase for people, not for its wages and other expenses. 669 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, 669 South. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:49]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u275	684. After all the small expenses that you may have felt are being reduced, there is a program called Financial Insurance for Pensions, Pensions and Retirement Allowances for Pensions and Deficit Pensions, which is this transfer. So the money that I've collected through income recalculation, 23 billion, I'm going to propose to increase it by indexation, and I'm going to look at it on my own. People with minimum pensions for the next year, 23 billion. Please support the 684 revision, the sources for these funds are. Support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, amendment 684, correct, Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:01]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u277	724th, we continue to reduce the cost of programs that are correct. Without which the country would live and live in the following year. Science and science and technology in construction, housing policy, housing and regional development, research, conservation and study of flora in specially created conditions. 14.4 million dollars was increased compared to 2022 after the Sequester, that is, how could this program work at all in 2022? Please support the 724 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u278	What number, again, Nina Petrovna, am I sorry? 724th, right? 724th, right, Nina Petrovna? Wait a minute, I didn't find anything. Oh, there she is. 724 revisions. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:26]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u279	Please check with 811 because the committee issued a table late on the decision that the government will be tasked with. So I didn’t even make all the adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u280	811 is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u281	Declined. Then let's go get her. Dear colleagues, have you heard that this year the maintenance of international crossing points has been transferred from customs to the Ministry of Infrastructure? You don't think there's anything here that violates the customs function at all? I'm offering saved money, as well as the ones that we can take on additional incomes, 10 billion to send to the customs service for the project "Implementation of Border Road Infrastructure Construction and Passing Points." I'm asking you very much to support this, because, apart from involving our foreign partners' money, we're definitely not going to get the economy started without it, we're not going to get out.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u282	811th of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:54]] For-54 The decision is not taken. What's next, Nina Petrovna? Nina Petrovna, are you all right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u283	No, not everything. I don't know. 740 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u284	We agreed not to jump, Nina Petrovna. It's very difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u285	Look, I've got it covered: where we're cutting costs, where we're adding expenses. If I take it now, I'll give it a shot, I'll try to keep going. Now I'm going to try and follow in two hands. 740 repairs. It's a scientific and technical activity in the development of an agro-industrial complex, standardization and certification. It's increased by 18.8 million dollars. Please bring to the level of the second-rate expenditure in the 22nd year. 740 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u286	Thank you. 740th Nina Petrovna of the South. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:05]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, 756 revisions. Tell me, please, about the land reform at a time when our lands were being decommissioned every day, and now we're taking them back, and we're going to be de-mining them for a long time and so on. This land reform program envisioned an increase of 139.4 million dollars. It seems to me that the minister of finance here should be reacting in a certain way. Why do we need this program, please? Let's take a look at these expenses. Please support 756 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u288	756th, rejected by the Southern Committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:06]] For-64 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u289	Next amendment 760. The state-wide topographical and cartographic work, demarcation and delimitation of the state border, increased spending by 102.7 million dollars. I don't know who saw this program where we're going to spend our money now, as we don't have clear borders yet, especially in the east of our country. Please support the 760 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u290	760 of the Jujanina Amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:01]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u291	There's a small amendment of 766, I'll miss it, a fish farm, a god with it, let's go to 774 amendments. It's about electronic governance. Humans increased the program by 442.5 million dollars. You know who the war is, and we're developing electronic governance, we're going to increase the cost of these programs. Please support the 774 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u292	774 amendments to the authorship of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:58]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u293	779. General infrastructure management and management. Development expenditure is increased by 683,000. It would seem a small amount, but when we look at all the supervisors, we collect billions. And I don't understand why someone closer to power can beat themselves up, and for example, the same sector as education got minus 30 billion in budgeting next year. Please even take into account and reduce your expenses. They are unnecessary, and at the level of expenditure this year all our institutions can be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u294	779 of Jujanina’s amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:08]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u295	Next amendment 782. You'll all find it interesting because we have people who will fly by letter flights because we have expenses for organizing and carrying out letter flights by aircraft (aircraft!) increased by 299 million next year. To whom to wish a happy flight, I don't know. But he no longer has a conscience. Support 782 revisions. Airplanes don't fly, who are you going to drive, and increasing expenses?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u296	782 of Yuzana’s amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please make up your mind and vote. [[14:22:14]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u297	Too bad you can't hear it. 788 amendments, this is the budget program "Organizational delivery of infrastructure projects." What infrastructure projects? Why can't we leave infrastructure projects? You've already said that you need a road fund to do that in such a cloudy amount, but you're also increasing it separately. Please support and leave expenses at 2022. 788 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u298	788 Amendment of the Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:11]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u299	794. Science and science and technology in the area of physical culture and sports. People, we're confident that we can now support such programs, increase expenditure compared to the 22nd. Please reduce to 22nd year and support 794 revisions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u300	Ninety-ninety-ninety-four. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:57]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u301	799. It seemed to me that we had come to realize that such a huge problem, as our country has, should unite us. And a lot of work, I thought about how volunteers do, spending their time, spending their money, all our metenets, all of our individuals. It is not possible to build or organize certain systems, such as the verification information and analysis platform and other measures related to its implementation, by means of etysers who are in each executive body. Why increase the cost of this program if your autisms can do this work, like we all do now? Why do we increase these costs? Please reduce by 14 million the expenditure of this central executive body. 799 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u302	799 Amendment of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:14]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next up, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u303	The next 801 revision. The Ministry of Finance is no longer in charge here. Science and science and technology in financial policy. The general fund’s development expenditure increased by 21 million. Please cut these costs and leave at 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u304	801 Amendment to the Authorship of Jujanina The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:59]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Is Nina Petrovna finished or not? How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u305	I still have ten amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u306	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u307	825 revisions. It's a program called The Execution of Punishment by the Institutions and the Authorities of the State Criminal Enforcement Service. The total fund is increased by 28.4 million dollars. This year is also a difficult year for a given body. But somehow, using the funds allocated this year, they managed to live. Please support the amendment and reduce the planned expenditures for the 23rd year.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u308	825 Amendment of the Jujanina The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:27:01]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u309	837. Scientific and scientific and technical activities in the field of archival and insurance records. Expenses increased by 9 million dollars. Why? What's that? If we take into account some inflationary processes, why is it that people don't take more than 50 percent of the inflation planned for this year, by setting a minimum of living?? Please support 837 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u310	Dear colleagues, 837 revisions to the authorship of Jujanina The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:27:58]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u311	886. This goes to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. I propose to cut the total spending by 161 million and leave it at 2022. This goes back to the question of who, what are we afraid of? So we're all the same. I don't understand. What's the increase here? Because if their wages are prescribed in the law, they have not been indexed, they have not changed, so what is involved in this increase is not clear at all. Please support the 886 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u312	Dear colleagues, and so 886 amendments to Nina Petrovna's authorship, were rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:29:08]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u313	888. That's 161 million, which is increased on the NABU, it's made up of $139 million worth of work. And that's the 139 million, the increase in expenditure, is about 888 amendments. In order to reduce by 161, all other budget programs also need to be adjusted. It's just how the budget is made up. So the structure of the budget. I have to repeat myself twice. 888 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, 888 amendments. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:04]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u315	Dear colleagues, do you agree that the following year you call a year with a military budget too complex and crass? This amendment refers to the DBR.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u316	What's the number, Nina Petrovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u317	898 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u318	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u319	Securing DBD activities, spending on the general fund is increasing by 380 million. We've already seen, the DA's office, the NABU, we've just reached the D.B.I. We don't have money for people, and for these guys and girls, we have money despite the war. Please support 898 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u320	Dear colleagues, the 898 amendment of Jujanina. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:31:09]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u321	900 amendments relate to the salary of the DBR. So in these 380 million, there's a 242 million increase in the wage fund, with a short-term program in the 22nd year, with a short-term pay fund, the institution lived peacefully and paid its wages. Are you sure they don't have a payroll debt? I'm so sure. Why increase the cost of work during the war? Please tell me, what's changed? Payments to families of the dead are not made, but we find money for the prosecution, the D.B.R., the N.A.B.U., and so on. Please support 900 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u322	Dear colleagues, the 900th Amendment of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:24]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u323	There is another interesting program. In fact, I can hear you, and I'll jump through a single correction, so it's a good trend. 905 repairs. It's guidance and management. The programme "Leading and Managing Television and Broadcasting Controls". Please tell me, why increase the cost of the general fund by 750 thousand? Why do these structures that are today perform their functions with reduced budgets, and why do we spend so much extra money on them? This can no longer be described in any way. Please support the 905 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u324	Dear colleagues, 905 revisions to the authorship of Jujanina The committee is not supported, rejected. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:38]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u325	We'll pick the biggest ones, I don't know. 960 repairs. Science and science and technology in the agro-industry sector, the development costs of the global fund. 514 million 880 thousand. Increased compared to the cost of accounting for the Sequester this year. Please do not plan such expenses at all, but do not increase in the following year. Science and technology in the agro-industrial complex. Tell me, who knows? Please support the 960 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u326	960 amendments to the authorship of Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:52]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u327	A few more. 970 revisions. I'll call it where there are large sums. It's a program called "Actions for Privatization of State Property". Expenditure on the general fund increased by 89 million. Please bring this indicator to the sequestered level in 2022, that's correct. 970 revisions. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, 970 amendments to Nina Petrova's authorship. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:44]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u329	1082 revisions. Dear colleagues, you've all received almost all the representatives of education from all the communities and general letters, each came to an e-mail that they don't understand how we could cut costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u330	Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry, she's part of it and she's in charge of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u331	4 billion 105 million that we should raise just by cutting unnecessary costs. We could send a full subsidy from the state budget to local budgets to pay teachers. Thank you for, at least, the government's mandate. But I ask that we all see, after considering it, whether we consider anything for teachers or not, by the Ministry of Finance of this document. Then let's move on. Are we taking full account of this? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u332	Okay. Then let's take full account. Amendment to 1082 of the Southern authorship. It's partially accounted for, but the author insists on taking full account. I'm making an offer from the author. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:13]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, the amendment remains partially taken into account. What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u333	1197, this is my personal last amendment. We picked you up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u334	It is included in part, too, in Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u335	Yeah. This is all true of state budget subsidies to local education budgets. But I've listed the entire revenue part quite carefully, of course, and I'd like to ask you to support the revisions with absolute sums. But I hope that the Ministry of Finance will still list the educational needs after the roll call, the number of children in the country and where they are learning.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u336	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry, I made a mistake, this amendment was rejected, you're right. So I'm putting 11,97 of Nina Petrovna's amendment to the Southern Committee, which was rejected by the committee, and I'm putting her to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:25]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, you have everything, do you understand? Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for the discussion. Is there anyone else? Aristov still, yes. How much do you have? Please, the Aristov People's Deputy. The repair number? I'm sorry, Ariev. Because Aristov is standing here. National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u337	Yes, I realize that after such a day, Arieva and Aristov can be confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u338	It's important that you don't confuse each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u339	So let's work on the repairs logically. Amendments 16 and 17 are interconnected. I'm asking you to give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u340	Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u341	These amendments are made in order to limit the granting of State guarantees to cover the debt obligations of owners and to determine the limit. In the original, this may provide options for the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate by hand how to limit the partial performance of debt obligations. We're offering 70 percent. During the discussion on the budget committee, we were shown what we should do now, without limiting it, because otherwise there would be no investment. But, I'm sorry, they're still not going today. And even if we write a partial execution without indicating the upper limit, it won't help investors decide to come to Ukraine. Nevertheless, we now propose to limit directly 70 percent of these partial debt obligations so that the government can understand its limits and within what limits it can use the rights granted to it. And don't do it manually. Please support the 16th and 17th amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u342	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then I'll take my turn. 16 Amendment of the People’s Deputies Ariev and Pavelek She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify yourself and vote. [[14:41:07]] For-60 The decision is not taken. I'm putting 17 amendments. No, no, not 18th, 17th, dear colleagues, please. Amendment 17, Arieva. It is also rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:36]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains rejected. Please, Ariev, what is the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u343	The next 18 and 19, they're together, please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u344	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u345	See, this also applies in part to the carrying out of debt obligations on a portfolio of loans granted to microenterprises in small and medium -sized businesses. The government believes that partial coverage can also help small and medium - size business in 2023. Nevertheless, in 2023, the most helpful thing for small and medium-sized businesses is not interference with their affairs. Because today we see, again, a continuation of tax pressure. Fire inspections have already begun, and small and medium - size business has begun to shake them out of the last. So the question is, these preferences that are being submitted now, they are. Small and medium-sized businesses, they're very hard to get, and it's a hard way, and it's kind of even corrupt. But in this case we also propose to limit the upper limit of this partial execution by 30 percent. Because we understand that if we help small and medium-sized businesses, partial execution, whatever it is, and even manually, will not solve their problems. So I'm asking you to support 18 and 19 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u346	Dear colleagues, Arieva’s 18th Amendment She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:41]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 19 of the Ariev People’s Deputies. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[2:44:02]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Please, Ariev, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u347	A very important correction: 20 and 21. Also, two minutes, they go together. I ask you to pay very serious attention to these amendments because this is about the extent of the State guarantees to cover the debt obligations of borrowers and loans involved in financing programs — attention! - related to enhancing the security and security of the state and the state required in the state of war. This year, too many programs are actually using zero. And that, by the way, is a disgrace for our government, which has not yet approved the passporting of those loans that are required for the security and defence sector. But I really hope that this will break through, and we will finally be able to develop these programs that Ukraine needs today to protect itself from the aggressor. Understand, we are in a state of war today, and if the government says it is a military budget, it should be at war by 100 percent. And we propose to raise these guarantees from 20 billion to 30 billion. The arguments cited on the Committee that were not used this year will not mean that 20 billion should be left behind next year. If these programs are going to go, we have to do everything we can to use the resources that were unusable this year, plus an additional 10 billion that could be useful to our Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please support both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u348	Dear colleagues, I'll bet on it. Amendment 20 Arjev She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:20]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The following amendment of the 21st National Deputy, Ariev. She was also rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:41]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u349	I would love to, but I do realize that there are no amendments, but there are a few principles. Amendment 27. Let's take a look at what's proposed in this amendment. This applies to the minimum of living, and this is not a populist proposal, but a progressive scale of growth can be established over the year of living in Ukraine. I just want to call you. As soon as Nina Yuzanin found a bunch of resources. Unfortunately, you didn't count them, but the resources are there to help Ukrainian citizens survive all the difficult times that await us next year. And if we're talking about having resources, we need to start them not on letter flights, not on incomprehensible projects, but to help citizens. Two priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u350	Dear colleagues, the 27th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Ariev. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:12]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next, please. Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u351	Amendments, please also give me the possibility of amendment 86, 87, 89, 91, 92. I'm asking you very much to give me three minutes to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u352	Three minutes, and we don't put them to a vote because I haven't been able to write them down. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u353	I am very much asking you to put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u354	Then tell me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u355	86, 87, 88, 89, 91, 92. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u356	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u357	I want to point out that these amendments are all being made in order to channel part of the funds of Ukraine to the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the social security of the military and their families. We have no other way out, I say again, two priorities to be today are the Armed Forces of Ukraine, defence of Ukraine and social. and support for the socially vulnerable. If we have 68 billion dollars to repair roads, we need to find the money to support the wounded, but we still have to pay for the families of the soldiers who died by paying off their debt, because today this procedure is opaque, scattered across the headlines, and as a result, we get a situation where only 10 percent of those families who have collected the necessary documents will receive these payments. And, of course, if today the volunteers can't just raise money for drones, for thermal visions, to provide our soldiers with winter forms, then maybe we'll finally find these funds in the budget? They are. And the fact that Nina Yuzanin offered what I'm saying right now. Finally, we need to understand that there are so many unnecessary expenses in the budget today. And if we don't count these Grand Building budgets for Ukraine's great protection, then it will be a disgrace to all of us. I'm saying one more thing. People are collecting the last cents today, 85-year-old grandpa sold his apartment and a specific area to be converted into volunteer funds. We can do this, we can do this to the Ministry of Defense, we can do this to Ucroborprom, we can buy everything we need for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Let's repair the roads after the war, after the war, after the victory. And in order to win, you have to use every penny to put on the front and protect the soldiers and their families so that the backs of our soldiers are strong. I ask you very much to support these amendments, to have a conscience, and finally to take care, not of words, but of protecting Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u358	Dear colleagues, the 86th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Ariev. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:03]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The following 87 amendments of the Ariev People’s Deputy The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:24]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The next amendment was made by 88 people’s deputies, Ariev. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:46]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The next amendment was made by 89 people’s deputies, Ariev. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:07]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 90 of the Ariev People’s Deputies. It's a committee of hers. Oh, she's accounted for, I'm sorry. 91st National Deputy Ariev. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:34]] For-54 The decision is not taken. The next and final 92rd National Deputy Ariev. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:55]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next, please, Princess. Do I get it right? Please correct and correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u359	Thank you. I had 30 of them, I'm going to sound eight. And I'll ask him to vote on it. First of all, I wanted to welcome the Ukrainian organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u360	Name the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u361	Number 254. I wanted to welcome the Civil Liberties Center with the Nobel Prize. First Nobel Prize in Ukraine. I think it's very important for Ukraine and for our civil society. [[Applause]] Thank you. The substance of the amendment. The amendment proposes a new edition of paragraph 11. We suggest that the government not address the issue of increasing cultural expenditure, but that it prepare an appropriate project to modify the budget in part of the increase in cultural expenditure after the end of the military state, because it actually destroys culture. And we're not funding the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, or the Institute of Books in sufficient numbers, and we're not funding it this year, and we're putting out a bunch of money on incomprehensible marathons. It's a crime! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u362	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 254 by Knieżick. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:29]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Please, Princey, next amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u363	Thank you. Next amendment 389. Friends, we managed to recreate the Ukrainian cinematographer somehow, we made 50 films a year in 19. Films are not being funded right now. It is proposed that the cost of maintaining cinematography be increased by 500 million dollars on the basis of dBD spending. Only 85 million are budgeted for the maintenance of cinematography, whereas Mincult’s propaganda activities are inconclusive and need of nearly 2 billion totals. Please support 389 revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u364	The 389 amendment of the Princely Committee was rejected. Please identify and vote. [[14:56:28]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u365	Amendment 561. Increase the spending of 646 million dollars on utility and energy services to higher education institutions due to a reduction in the corresponding amount of expenditure under the budget programme "Delivery of DBD Activities". We know that the Ministry of Education does not have that amount to go through the heating season educational institutions. We're killing our education. Let's go study now, they're being sent home for a month and a half to a distance called that. Let's at least teach the kids right. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u366	Dear colleagues, 561 amendments to the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:28]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u367	Next amendment 842. The amendment proposes to create a separate government programme for the implementation of the State Language Promotion Program. Instruct the government to determine the amount of money to meet the requirements of the State Language Act. It's a rule of law. Since the adoption of the Law on Language, the government and the ministry have boycotted the requirements of Article 5 of the Law on Language, which requires them to approve the appropriate national program. This is especially so now that we have so many temporary displaced persons in western Ukraine. This has led to some misunderstandings. People want to learn Ukrainian. The State does not support the study of the Ukrainian language at all, even though the law requires it. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u368	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 842 People's Deputy of Knieżick. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:39]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u369	Next amendment 846. Now, one second. 846 repairs. The amendment proposes to increase the cost of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund by 500 million on the basis of a reduction in the amount of propaganda expenditure. Because Mincult is making propaganda out of the production and broadcasting of programs for government purposes, and the Ukrainian Cultural Fund is a transparent institution that we have created, and it gets up to zero bracelets on its programs. We increased their expenses just to raise their wages. Please take this amendment fully into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u370	Thank you, Your Honor. Next, the 864 Princely Amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u371	846th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u372	Stop. 846 repairs. I'm sorry. 846 revision of the Princely. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:59:56]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u373	Next amendment 854. This correction looks like it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u374	It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u375	Yes. I'm asking you to consider it completely. It's like 846th, increasing the funding of the UCF by reducing the funding of propaganda. The amendment is partially taken into account, but we insist that the government be fully accounted for and entrusted to the part of the increase in expenditure in preparation for the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u376	854 amendments to the Prince's, it's partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[15:00:46]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Next, Viatrowich. Excuse me, next, Princely.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u377	Thank you. 857 amendments are included in part. This amendment proposes an increase of 100 million dollars in funding to the Ukrainian Institute of Books, where there is no cost not only for the program but also for wages. It's really part of the government's mandate to increase costs, but I insist that this amendment be fully taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u378	Thank you. Please, 856, correct, correct? It's partially accounted for. 7th, right? Excuse me, 857 amendments, it's partially accounted for. The author insists that the People's Deputy, Princely, be fully accounted for. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[15:01:51]] For-52 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. The next amendment, I think I have another one left, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u379	Yeah, that's the last one, 879th. It proposes to increase spending by 10 million dollars on funding, more loyally, on the financing of the Authorized State Language by reducing spending on the DBR. The budget of 17 million is insufficient to perform the functions of the authorized and its secretariat. Fellows, you remember when Vladimir Zelensky performed at the service of the Chevchenkow Prize, quoting Churchill, saying: ‘ What are we fighting for if we don’t finance culture? ’ That's what the president said. And now we've eliminated the financing of culture and the support of Ukrainian language from the budget. It's totally disgraceful. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u380	Dear colleagues, the 879 amendment of the Prince. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:02:57]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, look, I still have this order, I'm just agreeing with you, two more amendments to the Fed's stand, two amendments to Jonah, three amendments to the Vitatrovich, two amendments to the Bondar and one amendment to the Synth. Three Bondars, right? Three Bondars and one Blueberry amendment. Well, that's natural, what they told me. Dear colleagues, I think we can do it in 10 minutes. I remember Dmitry Alexanderovich. You'll bet on confirmation. Dear colleagues, in about 10 minutes, we will conclude the discussion on supporting the amendments, and then some amendments will be made to confirm and we will vote in favour of the budget. So please ask the people's deputies to come to the hall, I think in a minute 7-8 maybe 9, we'll move on to a successful vote. Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina, two amendments, please call the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u381	Amendment 494. Colleagues who have no interest in listening to what is happening. How many of you were at the funerals? How many of you have taken the last path of our protectors? Regrettably, the budget for the following year has paid for the dead by only 21 or 22 people, and all proposals for adding funds are ignored. The minister was actively waving his head that there was no such thing. But our task with you is to ensure that every family of the dead is compensated in 15 promised millions. Therefore, it is proposed that the general budget of the State budget be added to the budget of 150100 in terms of, inter alia, 342 million, which is proposed to be taken from general e-government. Colleagues who don't care about military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u382	Dear colleagues, the 494th Amendment of the United Nations. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:05:27]] For-78 The decision is not taken. And another amendment, the Feds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u383	Amendment 1196. Unfortunately, I can see that most people don't care about the families of the dead and pay them compensation for our defenders. This amendment, 1196, provides for the subsidy under Cabinet Regulation No. 280, so-called ATO/WCO. People who have gone to serve since 2014, but are themselves out of occupied areas and have lost all their possessions. The decree provided that they would receive compensation for receiving housing, but for the next three years, because of the coronavirus, the invasion completely cut off all the costs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we now make an additional 50 million dollars with this amendment supported. To protect Ukraine from 2014 even if they do not have a home, they are still protecting Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u384	Dear colleagues, the 1196th Amendment of the United Nations. It's rejected by the committee. The author asks that this amendment be taken into account. Please identify and vote. [[15:07:00]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Please, two amendments to Jonah. Please, Maria Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u385	I would like to include Amendment No. 10, which says that, in accordance with the second article of Article 4 of the Finance Ministry project, changes are allowed to be made to the allocation of the special state budget fund where the expected arrivals will take place in 2023. But this rule allows for government expenditure to be managed on a manual basis and therefore without proper economic justification, direction, and budgetary allocation. I would therefore like to ask that such necessary changes to the state budget can only be made expeditiously by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it has demonstrated this on several occasions. So, frankly, enough already to stop the practice of this manual administration of this institution, where decisions are made, we know which street is the Bank's, because they're not even the government budget manager. I would like to return these powers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u386	I'm betting on the 10th amendment of Jonah's authorship and her colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:08:28]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Another amendment, please, Jonah. Number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u387	I'd like to give me four minutes and there'll be four revisions, four revisions: 270, 111, 121, 128. And give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u388	No, let's go one way, but you won't save him there. One thing at a time. 270, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u389	Can I ask you to give me four minutes for four adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u390	Yes. One minute, and we're voting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u391	And then we vote in turn. That's a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u392	270th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u393	I'm sorry, I just didn't hear what you were saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u394	I'm saying report 270.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u395	Okay. Edit 270, I'll start with it. Because I'm going to remind my colleagues that during the 21st to 22nd years, state-owned enterprises have created channels such as House and FREEDOM, they are financed by the state. And unfortunately, in the 21st year, almost $13 million was allocated, and in the 22nd year, this budget grew by almost 14 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u396	Dear colleagues, 270 amendments, she was rejected by the committee, the authorship of Jonah and her colleagues. Please identify and vote. [[15:10:03]] For-54 Decision Not Adopted 111 amendment, please, Jonah.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u397	Thank you. I'd like to continue. But according to the tenders, most of the money was spent on Russian-speaking shows and political talk shows. Well, colleagues, in real terms in terms of Russian aggression, keeping two state-owned television channels for these purposes, well, it still seems like such an excessive burden for the state budget, and we can't resist the effective information aggression of the Russian Federation. What is more, unfortunately, these channels, including FREEDOM, which is being broadcast in Russian, are being promoted by the pro - Russian propaganda narratives. Let's better allocate this budget to the financing of the defence needs itself, security in 2023, because it's, well, unacceptable and has to be compensated. I would also like to point out that, you know, this example of proliferation in a single marathon, even Mr. Speaker, when there was news yesterday about the proposal for negotiations, I responded and said, "I'm listening and I'm surprised." So it's important that we do these.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u398	Thank you. 111 An Amendment to the Authorship of Jonah and Colleagues She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:11:38]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 121st. Jonah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u399	Yeah, I'll keep going. Nevertheless, Mr. Head, I would like to see that we don't broadcast a killer on the Rada Channel who annexes territory and agrees to kill Ukrainians so that this creature, Matthew, doesn't broadcast on Ukrainian television channels. I support what you pointed out yesterday. The work of other members of our parliament, parliamentary diplomacy, regional work is also very active, but I would still like to see that, especially in the network of the Council, national MPs, balanced representation of political factions and not show such enemies of the Ukrainian people. I'm not saying that even the Bigus program is focusing on the purposeless use of the Supreme Council's funds, because for the first time, the Council channel paid 20 million dollars to the KinoKit structure for the concept of just a new network. So this money goes to what's called a web channel that unfortunately criticises volunteers.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u400	121 revisions of the authorship of Jonah and her colleagues were rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:13:06]] For-60 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment, 128th. Please, Jonah.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u401	I'm done. In conclusion, I also wanted to remind colleagues about the "Media Detector" investigation, which was conducted and where, for example, the opposition to European Solidarity was shown on numerous occasions, but every day is criticized. And just like that for 8 months, you know, there's this kind of political censorship that uses the service. For no one's secret, you all know what only representatives of the President's Office show, that is. And the Ministry of Censorship. On this I'd like to finish, and say, do you think it doesn't notice society? You don't think that's what international partners notice? They have already begun to give such public signals that during the war it is not necessary to prolong political censorship and not build, you know, such a small Russia in Ukraine. Ukraine – it always wins, but Ukraine wins only by being a democracy. So let's give ourselves an answer, is it normal that during the war, billions of dollars in the budget are allocated to the "Council" channels, and FREEDOM is Russian-speaking, where.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u402	Dear colleagues, the final amendment of Ion's 128th. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:14:39]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Please, come on. Three amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u403	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. All of my amendments, they're actually 11, I'm going to sound 4, they're all about the sphere of culture that I think is not just reduced in this budget, and the budget is a cultural breakdown, unfortunately. So if. My amendment is based on amendment 173, which is that if, in conditions where the government almost completely allows the financing of important cultural programs, at least allow the funds to be channelled to the fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression, and also to the development and support of Ukrainian culture. This amendment is not about any amounts, but it is still rejected. Please support the financing of culture by the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u404	173 of the Vetarovica Amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:15:49.]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next, please. Just start with the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u405	253. Again, like others, it's about culture, because I'm convinced that misunderstanding the importance of culture, including in times of war, can lead to severe consequences in this war. Instead of completely abusive formulations of paragraph 11 of the Transitional Regulations, I propose a clear and binding norm. By February 15, 2023, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduced a bill to the Supreme Council to amend the Law on the State Budget for 2023 on the provision of full expenditure for the implementation of the programmes and activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, the Ukrainian Institute of Book, the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, and the restoration of programmes for the preservation of Ukrainian cultural and historical heritage. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u406	Honorable Colleagues, 253 Amendments to Vátrovitch The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:16:57]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Please, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u407	Amendment No. 847. We keep hearing that there's no money for culture, but I'm going to try to show you where you can get money for culture. This amendment, 847, foresees a reduction in the cost of the so - called production of radio programmes for public purposes. Because as we see this year, the parliamentary channel is not that it's transformed, and the channels of innovation are used for the unilateral pyar of one political power, and they are used exclusively for the pyar of the President's Office. This is illegal and unacceptable in times of peace, and it is illegal and unacceptable in times of war. I am convinced that my offer deserves to be supported. This is about 400 million dollars that need to be removed from this article and turned over to support Ukrainian culture. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u408	847 Vetarovica Amendment. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:18:10]] For-49 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u409	Amendment number 904 is again about where to take the money. We have this strange structure called the DBR, which, by the way, at the time of the war finds time, effort and resources to persecute war generals. So I'm proposing from this organization's budget that 1 billion dollars should be transferred to support Ukrainian cultural institutions because I think that the activities of Ukrainian cultural institutions are much more important than the conversion of the DBR into a political instrument, particularly directed at those people with weapons in their hands who are protecting Ukraine today. Please support Amendment 904.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u410	Amendment 904. Now, now, a second. Amendment 904 of the authorship of Vetarović. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:19:28]] For-49 The decision is not taken. All right, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please, we still have Bondar, three corrections, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u411	Thank you. I also had more amendments, but they were on three. The first is 636 amendments. It's all those three adjustments that apply to miners. Nina Yuzanin, speaking, wondered when the programs were increasing if investment programs were to look for investors. My first revision immediately shows where an investor can be invited to enter. These are non-profit mines, but unfortunately they're not eliminated. So a program to eliminate non-profit industries is proposed to increase by 147 million, that is, to close those non-profit mines, these are large areas where these mines are located, and to allow investors to enter. It's both communication, and infrastructure, and buildings. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u412	Thank you. Amendment 636 of the Bondar People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:21:04]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u413	Yeah, next amendment 638. You know, there's a lot of shading guys that are being mobilized now, probably for one simple reason that businesses are functioning, it's easier to come and deliver messages and take away guys from all the necessary professions, mining professions. And unfortunately, many of them are now dead. But the boys are killed not only on the front, but also on the mines. So with amendment 638, I propose to increase the measures, the mining and rescue measures in the coal industry, to increase them by 112 million. I ask you, colleagues, to support this, because every Ukrainian's life is important, and the miner, besides the one who's fighting on the front, is also fighting on the energy front of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u414	638 amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please confess and vote. [[15:22:30.]] For-58 The decision is not taken. And it's final. Please, Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u415	Thank you. The final 640 is my turn. This is the restructuring of the coal sector. The boys returning from the front hope first of all that they will return to their jobs. If you don't invest in modernization, in the development of coal companies, they won't have anywhere to go, because there's no lava, there's no equipment, there's nothing to function about. Appropriately, boys, girls who return to businesses will be left destroyed or at least destroyed. So please, colleagues, vote in favour of this amendment and allocate the cost of modernisation to support the coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u416	640 amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:23:53]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, we've got Blueberry left, one readout, Great Dickie -- one readout, Herasymov -- eight amendments. Then we finish. Next, Razumkov will make four amendments to the approval and we vote in favour of the budget as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you do not have them in those who will place them, then you will make two adjustments for confirmation. Dear colleagues, this is Blueberry, one amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u417	Dear Mr. Head and Honorable Colleagues, 183 revisions. And I am convinced that it was not approved by the budgetary committee as a result of just such an unprecedentedly rapid review of all rights. Because I want to pay attention here to the deputies of all factions, including the People's Servant and, above all, the Mayor's deputies, because the language refers to the authority to adopt local budgets and to make changes to local budgets. I think it's all decentralization. And I am convinced that we need to make it very clear today that the powers to change and adopt budgets are within the competence of local authorities and do not apply to military administrations. And we're going to stop this discussion, in every area where, the council, the military administration accepts budgets and changes. So I'm asking you to support that in the 23rd year, the approval of local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u418	What's the amendment number? 183th, right? Now, one second. 183 Amendment to the Synth, it's rejected by the committee. I'd like to ask my colleagues to identify and vote. [[15:26:03]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Please, Big Man, one correction. Start with the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u419	Regulation 865. Dear colleagues, I would like to provide for consumption costs under the general budget programme "Health and Recreation of Children of Military Workers, Children of Temporaryly Moved Persons and Children affected by the Russian Federation's Armed Aggression in Children's Health and Recreational Institutions of the Higher Category" in the amount of 150 million at the expense of increasing the income of the General Fund of the State Budget for Taxation in relation to the need to protect the most vulnerable categories of the population, children affected by the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine and children of military personnel protecting Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u420	Dear colleagues, 865 of Veliczovich's law. It's partially accounted for, but the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[15:27:22]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there are eight amendments to Arthur Gerasimov. So amendment 865 remains partially accounted for. Arthur Volodymyrovich, call the repair number. Dear colleagues, one second. Before Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u421	Maybe I can have some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u422	Ladies, let's get started. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite all the national deputies to the hall, because after we have passed eight of these amendments, we are voting for amendments to the confirmation, and after that we are voting on the budget as a whole. Once again, this is the most important vote of a deputy in a year. So I'm asking everyone to be in their jobs. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u423	Dear colleagues, after my speeches, there will be a budget vote, so I would like to listen very carefully to what I am about to talk about. All my adjustments, the eight things I'm about to put, are balanced from the point of view of what source and where they're being spent. Amendment 492. Colleagues, we plan to spend between 80 billion and 90 billion dollars on our roads for 2023. While the real need does not exceed 43-45 billion. My amendment relates to the fact that 3 billion are off the road and are being turned over to help families of the dead and the wounded. Roads or Families of the Dead and the Wounded? Let everyone in this room make a decision now, whether they support this balanced amendment or not. Colleagues, I'm just addressing everyone personally right now. Roads or Families of the Dead and the Wounded? Please support 492 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u424	Dear colleagues, 492 Gerasimov's amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:29:30.]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u425	Next amendment 505. Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the fact that because we have more than 50 billion planned, from my point of view, extra roads, I'm asking 8 billion to cancel, and this is a balanced amendment also, to purchase form, including winter, and remedies for our troops. Now you're back on weights, on the one hand, money for roads that you don't really need, because you need about 43-45, you're planning 80-90, on the other hand, winter form that everyone here has been telling you is, only in the military there is something. Again, I address everyone in person to hear me: roads or winter forms. Make a decision for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u426	Please 505 amendments to the national deputy Gerasimov, she is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:30:52]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u427	Next line is 514. Dear colleagues, the subject and the same, we're taking the excess money off the road and directing it to the Ministry of Defense to the code -- the purchase of new weapons. Once again you've chosen asphalt instead of helping the families of the dead, you've chosen asphalt instead of winter form, just your vote. At least listen to what you vote for. Now there's asphalt on the scales, and there's extra asphalt, because the 43-45 billion that are needed is going to stay right there, and on the other hand, there's new weapons on the scales that can be purchased by the Ministry of Defense. Here's my big request. Really, each of you does not want to help the families of the dead, does not want a winter form for the army, and does not want new weapons? We'll see. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u428	514 Gerasimov's amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:32:14]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u429	Next, attention, colleagues, amendment 748, this is about our agrarians. I mean, right now we're liberating our territories. In addition, in the area of combat, and not only there, there are many substitutable areas. In addition, we understand that our agriculture today is one of the key exporters that gives currency to the state. And I honestly believe that we can help them, especially in eastern Ukraine, especially in the south of Ukraine, where we need to exchange, where we need to organize logistics that costs money. So, dear colleagues, this is a small amount compared to what we saw in this room today. But I'm asking you to support this amendment that will help Ukrainian agrarians. We brought in the Fatherland, and we ask everyone to support it so that Ukrainian agriculture, especially in the east and south, where fighting was taking place, would receive support and be able to harvest more crops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u430	Dear colleagues, the 748th Amendment of Gerasimov. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:33:41]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u431	Next amendment 791. As I said before, this set of amendments is balanced among ourselves, and this amendment refers to the removal of 13 billion from the construction of roads and asphalt, and the transfer of them to the codes that we talked about before: to help families die, to help the army buy winter forms, and to assist the army in the purchase of arms. And as for the general vote that I saw today in this room, you know, the key is not to be ashamed. Because every voter in your district, every voter who voted for you, we're going to explain that you chose asphalt and rolled away instead of helping the families of the dead, and instead of buying winter uniforms and buying new weapons. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u432	791 Gerasimov's amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:35:02]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, do you have two left? Three, yeah? Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u433	Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u434	One second, I'll give you my word. Dear colleagues, three more amendments to Gerasimov, and then we vote on several amendments to the approval and budget as a whole. So I'm asking you to invite the national deputies to the hall so that they won't be here for the last second marathon in their seats. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u435	Thank you. Amendment 874, Ruslan Alexiyovich. What does this amendment involve? It takes the money off the asphalt, but it's not necessary. I'll tell you again, the asphalt needs 43-45 billion for the year. This is even taking into account 18 billion debts to be repaid to Ukraine. They planned from 80 to 90. We understand why we planned this, and smiles aren't good here. This amendment transfers this money to the General Intelligence Directorate, which is 1 billion. Okay? The chief intelligence agency has proven to be the most desperate, fiercest fighters on the front today. And now we're going to see what's more important to everyone sitting in this room. Again on the dead we've seen, about the weapons we've seen, about the winter form we've seen, right now, attention: the asphalt with the bolts or the General Intelligence Directorate? We'll see about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u436	Dear colleagues, the 874th Amendment of Gerasimov, is included in part. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please vote. [[15:36:51]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, two more amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u437	Yes, the next amendment, 902, Ruslan Alexiyovich, as it relates. We're subtracting 266 million from the State Bureau of Investigation, and you know that I passed a bill to relaunch the State Bureau of Investigation. Colleagues, please study him carefully. Why? Because, you know, those deputies who stayed in Kiev, who stayed in the country, they traveled a lot, both in frontal areas and in Ukraine as a whole. So, you know, on my question in a lot of places, and who among the first scratches from the public authorities called the State Bureau of Investigation. I'm not making it up, you know the facts that, I think, many of you who have been to the front lines can confirm. That's why we're taking this money and transferring it to the Ministry of Defense. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u438	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 902, correct, Arthur Volodymyrovich? She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:38:14]] For-58 The decision is not taken. And final, Arthur Volodymyrovich, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u439	1217th, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, look, I honestly can't say right now that many of you don't know what they're voting for. You've been in Parliament for three years now, and you know very well that when it comes to accounting, and when you're told by these calculations, what's planned for the roads, we're going to say modestly, twice as much as it takes for a year, and at the same time, there's not enough money for the army. I'm going to tell you a terrible secret that you added about 50 billion to the Ministry of Defense without taking into account inflation. Considering inflation, even the Court of Auditors told you that you lack some 103 billion dollars for the army next year. This is Rakunkova, independent experts say that about 157 to 200 billion dollars per army is missing. And at the same time, you vote for the amendments that spend money anywhere, including on this unnecessary asphalt. Support this correction and correct it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u440	Dear colleagues, the final amendment for today is the amendment of 1217 of the national deputy Gerasimov. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:39:51]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments that colleagues wanted to make. Now it's going to be four to six amendments to confirm. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov. You asked me to give you two minutes, the first two corrections, and then two more minutes, one by one. Please, Brainy. The repair number? Written: no card inserted. Check the card in the remote control. Stuck in, huh? Please turn on the microphone, colleagues. I think he's involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u441	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, please listen to me carefully. It's about two revisions, 845 and 848. We all saw what was going on with Ukrainian television yesterday on the program Bihus. These are the papers of the people's deputy Truchin. But I don't even want to say about corruption right now, I want to ask you who's voting for the amendments that make the television content for "nice Russians"? Who will then return to their districts and be ready to go to the people? I'll call you the number right now. It doesn't balance anything in the budget, it saves 1.4 billion dollars. Listen, 1.4. It's the army, it's the doctors, it's the ones who are protecting us, not the money that will go to the television content that will be watching in Russia. How it works effectively, you've all seen February 24th. Then you saw how it works in Butch, Izuma, and unfortunately you will see it in many of our cities. You shouldn't spend Ukraine's state budget on creating content that will be viewed in Russia. These funds need to be directed to arms and to our army, which will quickly come and show what Ukraine is. So I'm asking you very much, and I'm asking you to put these two motions to confirm and not vote. Have a conscience, have an opportunity to return to your districts, look into people’s eyes. And have a conscience in front of you. Please make the right choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u442	Dear colleagues, I'm going to make these two amendments in turn. People's deputies please take their seats. 845 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Trukin. It's counted by the committee. The National Deputy of Razumkov is asking for confirmation. I'll bet on 845 of the amendment. Please vote. [[15:43:19]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 848th People's Deputy Trukin. Same situation. It is counted, counted by the committee, while the national deputy of Razumkov puts it on the stand. I'm putting to the vote 848 amendments. Please vote. [[15:43:54]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Dmitri Alexanderovich, will you insist on two other amendments? Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u443	First of all, I'd like to thank all the colleagues who think about the state, not some kind of profit of their own. And, Ruslan Alexiyovich, number 230, it refers to the fact that persons with disabilities as a result of war and persons with disabilities who have received financial compensation for unreceivable travel are actually deprived of that possibility by this right. We understand how many people today get disabled. There will also be more of them. So this is an unacceptable amendment, and I propose not to support it. Please put her to the vote. And let's think about people who today exactly need the support of the state, they're really people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u444	Dear colleagues, 230th, did I get it right? 230 amendment of the People's Deputy Strunuevich. It's counted by the committee. The National Deputy of Razumkov puts it on the stand. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[15:45:26.]] For 208 The decision is not taken. And it's final. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u445	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the next issue is 277. This appropriate position of the Budget Conclusions provides for the mandate of the Cabinet to consider the appropriateness of inclusion in the budget of the rules by which the Cabinet will be able to reduce existing benefits and guarantees for the period of war. Dear colleagues, this rule says that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it takes away the last opportunity to influence decision-making. Only four of the 1,000 200 were included in this budget. If you vote in favour of this amendment, no one will contact you at all because the national deputy will become an empty place. Let's respect ourselves and the people who voted for us in the 19th year, please. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u446	277 Amendment of the People's Deputy Didenko. Please, Yuri Yuriovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u447	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is due in the 22nd year. As long as she's quarantined, and now she's quarantined. This is just an extension to the military state of the law that works. So let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u448	Dear colleagues, you have heard your positions. I'll ask the quiet, respectable colleagues. 277 Amendment of the People's Department of Didenko. It's partially accounted for. At the same time, the committee’s decision is confirmed. You heard the committee's position, the committee's asking to confirm the committee's decision, to take this amendment into account in part. So I'm putting this amendment, which is partially accounted for, on confirmation. Please vote. [[15:48:02]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, one second. You all right, aren't you going to make some big adjustments? Okay. Wait a minute, I'll take it. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 8,000/P) on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2023. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. Support the budget. Please vote. [[15:49:46]] For 251 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear National Deputies, the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2023 was adopted in the first reading. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council approved the conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2023 and obtained the status of the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please don't break up, we still need to accept the amendments to the Budget Code with the budget. Let's vote on that and then we'll call it a break. I'm only asking, let's not discuss it, let's put it up and vote right now. Is there no objection? All national deputies please return to the Hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include in the agenda of the day a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the updating and improvement of certain provisions (registration No. 8035). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:51:35]] For 254 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the updating and improvement of certain provisions (registration No. 8035) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:52:09]] For 253 Decision taken. I'm offering to cut it in half. reduce half of the string. I am. Which ones in general? Arthur, come on. I propose to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments for the second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the updating and improvement of certain provisions (register No. 8035). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:52:50]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Oh, you know what, colleagues, let's be urgent. Wait, where are you going? Get back in the hall! Just a little bit of incontinence, listen. There is another suggestion to sign what we have accepted today as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u449	I'm betting on the motion to sign the bills adopted yesterday and today in the entire Supreme Council and to send them to the President immediately. Please vote. [[15:53:46]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-07-m0.u450	Thank you now. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today is almost complete. Thank you for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension in advance. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. Together we will defeat the aggressor! And the glory of Ukraine!
