ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u1	Masterful colleagues! Now, one second, I'm going to ask the factions and groups to come over here for a moment, please. Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputys of Ukraine, before continuing our plenary session, I would like to highlight the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the date and time of the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than 30 minutes after the end of our work. I ask everyone in the Supreme Council to be responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state, your colleagues, the employees of the Apparatus and the guests of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a continuous plenary session. So today, according to our decisions: on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022 – at the proposal of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. In good tradition, let's start our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] The country's distinguished national deputies, the great liberation war of the Ukrainian people against the Russian occupying hordes, the defenders and protectors of Ukraine in all directions are heroically deterring the large-scale armed aggression of the invaders. I ask you to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the hero soldiers who have laid down their lives for freedom, independence and the bright future of Ukraine. Let us also honor the memory of all peaceful citizens who were innocently killed by the Russian criminal army. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the day’s vote. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to make a signal vote. [[10:28:34]] For 234 Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. But before I go into the agenda, I have a statement from two factions: "European Solidarity" and "The Voice" with a break with a replacement for the performance. Please. Then we move on to the agenda. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u2	Thank you very much to colleagues from Voice for being able to speak. This is the theme that brings together the session room and which for us, a colleague from Voice is particularly painful. The massive killing of Ukrainian military personnel in Olenovac struck the world with cruelty. It's not just a violation of international humanitarian law, of the Geneva Conventions and of the laws of war, it's a powerful testimony that Russia is a terrorist country where there are no moral brakes. This killing has been responded to by the countries of the world, and so is the joint statement made by those Ukrainian structures that are now engaged in the liberation of prisoners of war. This is GUR, the Ukrainian Security Service. But Russian bastards, they don't calm down. On August 24, in Mariupola, Russian terrorists are preparing a demonstration court over Ukrainian military personnel to show an attempt to humiliate and break them. And in this context, colleagues, where is the voice of Parliament? Our faction registered Decree 7627. This appeal to all the parliaments of the world, demanding not only to condemn the mass murder of Ukrainian heroes in Olenovac, which is certainly a fact of terrorism, but also to remind international humanitarian structures, including the International Committee of the Red Cross, of their responsibility to have access to places of inliberation and to help our military personnel survive this terror, and to give families hope. And, excuse me, we can't put this application into the agenda at the Conciliation Council. That's why the Voice faction and I are now requesting the Presidium to be placed in order of the Day Order 7627. And, excuse me, among those prisoners of war who are there, not only military, there are civilians, especially four paramedics who are hospitalized, including Katerina Policczuk, "Bird", 21 years old. It's a violation of the laws of war. Among the prisoners there is Marina Mamanova, a pregnant woman, for eight months. The whole world needs to know now about the crimes of the Russians. We need to know their names. And, excuse me, when there's a 15-minute movie on the marathon yesterday about women's rights, more loyally, not women's rights in Afghanistan, but not one word about women in the military, it's a disgrace to the information policy of today's government. We demand that the daily bill 7620 be put into order. This is a decree on the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council. You're all being asked by the Ukrainians, "The Supreme Council is working?" And you can't say anything. My friends, what's wrong with the "The Council" slot? We are now working to preserve Parliament’s personality.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Irina Volodymyrna, I told you yesterday, and today, I'm surprised you haven't studied the Rules. The Conciliation Council takes its decision. Dear colleagues, that's all. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. And in terms of these statements, I just want to remind you that the next day there was a statement by the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine about all these events, and it was tough and timely. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues of order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich, let's not abuse, please! Arthur Volodymyrovich, once again. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich from the procedure, 30 seconds, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u4	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, indeed, the Conciliation Council accepts the agenda for the sitting, but it is approved by the Rules of Procedure by the session hall. So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, if we're going along the Rules, then let the session hall, all the deputies, confirm this agenda, as stated in the Rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u5	Arthur Volodymyrovich, I would just like to advise you to familiarize yourself with two regulations that regulate the activities of the Supreme Council during the war period, where a slightly different order is prescribed. Dear colleagues, let's go. Consideration of matters of the order of the day. Let's start at 5199. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the imposition of responsibility for breaching the order of strategic environmental assessment. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:34:19]] For 215 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on this subject with discussion, i.e. two in favour, two in contrast, the next without discussion. Please sign up for/against the factions and groups. Please invite National Deputy Labo Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u6	Good afternoon, colleagues! The draft law is relevant. Responsibility is laid down for violations of legislation in the area of strategic environmental assessment. In particular, for failing to carry out a strategic environmental assessment, for violating the environmental assessment procedure established by legislation, including public information, public discussion and results; for failing to take account of the results of the strategic environmental assessment when the public planning documents are approved. I would also like to refer to the sponsors of the bill, in general, if it is adopted as a law that is noted by all spheres when a strategic environmental assessment is agreed upon. Please, too, not to be disrupted in time, for at times the economic activity of the Ministry may be delayed, and the ministry may wait a long time for the proper agreement. I'd like to take the terms into account, pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u8	Ironman, please give me your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u9	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u10	We've been discussing this bill in the Voice faction for a long time, and we want to let you know that we're in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u11	We had a long discussion, but we quickly made decisions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please Fedina Sofia Romanovna, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u12	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u13	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u14	Thank you. Colleagues, with what the register needs, no one will argue. As far as this law is concerned, it does not contain any details of this register, it is not clear why it is created, it does not affect the law, the order in which the legal status of the records, which regime of access to it, open or closed, which records are specifically entered. Registers are usually created to provide certain information about official status after registration. It doesn't come out of this law. It's about responsibility. Also, from our point of view, it seems illogical to be able to expand the types of offences in the field of strategic environmental assessment by some other laws, except for the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act. Therefore, we believe that the last paragraph of part one of article 13.2 should be deleted. This law obviously needs to be further developed, and it once again shows the imitation of our work. Because when we've got journalists like Portnikov, we've got wiretaps that don't understand why, when we're disrespecting democracy, when the government is sending television channels back to air, and the authorities aren't responding, and we're doing pseudo-legals during the war, it's obviously not adding any honor or dignity to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u15	Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. I understand that, Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u16	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, no offense. This is a new initiative, which is theoretically right, it's European, but it's actually going to do a lot of damage to all energy, transport in Ukraine. I want to explain to you how this is going to work. Do you want to stop TEC-5, TEC-6, the donor station, other energy objects? No, you don't? So understand: If they are to be required to comply with European environmental standards, tariffs should also be European, investment programs. Transport, do you want it to be, like, entirely environmental? Okay. Then we need to replace this public transport with European public transport, but they should also be suitable for running there. And I, when I read the rules of this law, theoretically I'm in. But ask the business how it reacts to this under tax pressure, under all kinds of inspections. Giving any natural, legal person the right to sue in the court order of decisions or the inaction of the authorities, it paralyzes the process altogether. Just like, I'm sorry, with all due respect to the public, but they didn't take into account the way the public thinks, and all that, stopping any investment project. What if there is a second public organization, a third, a fourth, a fifth? So if you're sorry, first of all, when these laws are being prepared, you have to ask those who feed the country -- the taxpayers and the businesses -- they're going to help them if they're going to hurt them. Sadly, I am convinced that under the present conditions, they will be harmed. So we can't support either this or the following bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Bacon. Is anyone else going to make this bill? If not, I ask you to invite the people's deputies into the hall after that, and let's move on to the decision-making process. Paul Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Of course, war is destroying our nature right now, but our nature is also destroying the failure to comply with Ukraine's Strategic Environmental Assessment Act. It is therefore the project that is responsible for failing to comply with this law and is essentially responsible for the breach, namely failure to carry out this strategic assessment or not taking into account the results of this evaluation when planning as State executives, local self-government authorities, enterprises of various forms of ownership. So this is where the additional powers of the Derzekoinspection are added, and in fact this only register of strategic environmental assessment is created. We think that we should accept it in the first reading today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We are moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the imposition of responsibility for infringements of the strategic environmental assessment procedure (registration number 5159). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:42:41.]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that the next bill is without discussion, because there is a decision. Oh, I'm sorry, yes, I'm offering to cut the line. Shorten the submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading of Bill 5159. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:43:17]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Thank you, then, for standing in the passage and not supporting it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill is 5160. We agreed without discussion, because there is a decision to send to the Main Committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. I propose that a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the imposition of responsibility for non-compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment (registration No. 5160) be sent to the Main Committee for re-reading. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:44:16]] For 234 Decision taken. The next bill, we also agreed, no discussion. Dear colleagues, there is a compromise: 3 minutes – Krulko and then we vote on the Euro-Integration Law without amending the vote. I'm going to ask you to stay put because it's an important Euro-integration law. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, 3 minutes. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u20	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, very often in this session hall they call Euro-Integration Laws something that has nothing to do with European integration. On the one hand, the law is called very clear and simple: official statistics. Note, though, that this law is sewn down. In fact, it's about being able to run a population census right now by electronic means. In a country that is fighting, where, according to official data, 5 million people have temporarily left the country, where more than 5 million people have moved from their places and are in other parts of Ukraine, how can they make a census and do it electronically? Another point that's dangerous in this law and why the "Fatherland" faction will vote against this bill. This law does not directly, but it makes it very convenient to introduce electronic voting in the elections in the future. Do you remember Kiwalov's servers? Thus, these Kiwalova servers will appear to be children's toys at all compared to if an electronic vote is introduced. It's not going to be an election anymore, it's going to be a pseudo-wrong election and it's going to be a bunch of results. Therefore, under such conditions, we believe that such a bill cannot be voted on. I'm going to the session room so that we don't go into those prescribing that these are Euro-Integration laws when these mines of slow action are laid there. If we really want to integrate into the European Union, our legislation must apply to those standards, norms, procedures and directives that are foreseen and adopted by the European Commission, the European Parliament, then this will be really European integration. And when electronic population censuses and e-elections are established under European integration, it has nothing to do with European integration and the course Ukraine has chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u21	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. And yet another minute is Arthur Gerasimov, and we're voting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u22	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to say that, as you recall, when we first read it, we had key points from the confidential data transmitted by the State to the law enforcement authorities. I would like to inform you that there has been a very productive work in the working group, along with Deputy Prime Minister Fedorov, along with the leadership of the State Department, along with the leadership of the "Serve of the People" faction, with the committee responsible for the profile. And the sophisticated norm is now directly written that this information cannot be passed on to law enforcement authorities, other government authorities and so on. So in terms of confidentiality, this is now cleared by the efforts of the task force. We will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft of the Official Statistics Act (registration number 5886) in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:48:52]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 6537. We agreed, too, without discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] We agreed not to discuss it. I apologize, Jaroslav Ivanovich, and at the next 23 amendments, we know. Julia, please come up for one second, so I don't give a word, one second, please. Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Ivanovich is one minute and we are moving to a vote. Two minutes, yes, two minutes Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, let me explain what this "wonderful" bill is about. He's talking about what a very simplified negotiating procedure can do for 500 thousand, not for 50, but for 500, 10 times, to buy fuel-oil materials, construction works, and so on for the local authorities. First question. Here's the next bill that we're voting with you, it gives during the war, during the state of war, plus 6 months -- a special procedure that is defined by Kabmin. And during the war, it makes sense. And tell me, what arguments do we use when we give that opportunity afterwards, sorry, but including "thirty" on government tenders? This bill disagrees with Mineconomy, it disagrees with the ProZorro team, and, frankly, except for how the corruption risks there are little positive. So, dear colleagues, I'm warning you right now, I don't care what kind of political arrangement there was, but this bill is not going to be adopted in this room. It's a corrupt bill, and you get at least a thousand rights to second reading. So I have advice just, you know, don't be embarrassed. Yesterday, it was as if we had shown that Parliament had changed and understood the challenges facing the war and had voted in favour of good decisions. After this decision, we'll get the headlines back with the fact that we voted on some corrupt skin. So it's a very big request: take down this bill. And let's count on voices in some other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, 6537: Draft Act amending the Law on Public Procurement on the Simplification of Organization and Procedures for Procurement at the expense of local self-government budgets. I ask the MPs to take their seats. We must now vote on a few procedural decisions. First. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:52:19]] For 247 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Law on Public Procurement on the Simplification of the Organization and the conduct of procurement procedures at the expense of local self-government budgets (registration number 6537). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:52:49]] For 259. Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6537. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:53:15]] For 229 Decision taken. Next bill. We make one amendment, 23 amendments, and we vote in general. Rachmanin, please, 23 amendments, and then we vote in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? 7163. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement and other Ukrainian laws on the conduct of defence and public procurement for the duration of the legal regime of martial law. I'm sorry. Please, Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u26	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I invite my colleagues to vote, and I'm betting on the confirmation of number 23 of this bill. There it is suggested that the simplified procedure for defence purchases, which is scheduled for the time of the legal regime of martial law, be abolished. Confirming this amendment will actually stop the defense buying. So I ask my colleagues to cancel this amendment, to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand, Dmitri, she's counted. Please take the seat of the committee. I understand she's changed a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u28	My colleagues, thank you very much. The committee's editing was counted. The committee will not deny, after consulting colleagues from other factions and with the Ministry of Profiles, that it will not find support in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 23rd amendment is counted by the committee. Rachmanin's betting on confirmation. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:01]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. That is what we now make decisions about. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement and other Ukrainian laws on the conduct of defence and public procurement for the period of the legal regime of the state of war, the registration number of Bill 7163. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:55:45.]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill has also been arranged without discussion. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use and circulation of pyrotechnic articles (No. 7438). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:56:24]] For 238. Decision taken. Next offer. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use and circulation of pyrotechnic articles (registration number 7438). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:56:57]] For the 250. Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7438. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:57:24]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on. 7668. We agreed, too, without discussion. No discussion, because it's a day-to-day inclusion. So I'm making an offer. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Tax Rates (Registration No. 7668). Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:58:23]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next one is 7669. Show the factions, please. The next one is 7669. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the use of State Road Fund funds. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. [[10:59:20]] For 228 Decision taken. Then I'm going to make a proposal to figure it out. Let's see the factions. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by half under Bill 7669. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:59:53]] For 229 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, this is a procedural decision. Can we still try 7668? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, it's procedural, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please. It's not an essential decision. Let's try it again. I propose to include Bill 7668 in the agenda of the day. This is a bill amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code on Excise Taxes. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:00:46]] For 218. That's it, thank you. Finita at the comedy. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for payment services) (4366). We agreed not to discuss it. Therefore, I propose to adopt the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for payment services) in accordance with part one of article 116. (Registration No. 4366) People's deputies, please vote. [[11:01:39]] For 251 Decision taken. I propose to cut the amendment deadline for the second reading of Bill 4366. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:05]] For 237 Decision taken. Let's move on. The following bills are the second reading, and we agreed on some of them without discussion. 7486 is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on improving governance in the field of electronic communications. No one's going to insist on the amendments, so I'm going to make a decision right now, a draft decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving electronic communications management (registration number 7486). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:58]] For 266 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is 7487. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of conditions for the development and restoration of electronic communications networks. There's a few rights I know. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute to Kucherenko and we vote. Dear colleagues, let's not break up, one minute, we'll make a decision in a minute. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u30	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. My dear colleagues, my respects to you, to your business interests, I simply urge you, given that there has been a lot of contradictions with energy, with network companies, with OSBBs, with houses, I urge you to stop pushing, stop squeezing, let's find compromise, so that all the subjects of this chain will be satisfied and our residents will receive all the services at normal prices. I hope that the IT associations and the MPs who lobby for their interests in the Council heard me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the provision of conditions for the development and restoration of electronic communications networks (registration number 7487). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:01]] For 253 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, we agreed without amendment, is 7431. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (referring to a precautionary approach to military personnel who committed war crimes during the war) (registration number 7431). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:48]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7630, we agreed without discussion. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine regarding the closure of criminal conduct in connection with the decriminalization of action. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:06:25]] For 258. Decision taken. I propose that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code for the Closure of Criminal Conduct in connection with the Decriminalization of Action (registration number 7630) be adopted on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:06:58]] For 249 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7630. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:24]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. 7445, this bill under discussion. This is a draft law amending article 42-4 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to increase liability for violations of the established procedure of medical treatment. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:08:00]] For 265 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:08:21]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's do two-for-two-against. Please, let's write it down for discussion. Please, Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u33	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u34	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, I ask you to be very careful. In an extremely difficult situation that is now in our country, making any decision that relates to increasing responsibility, imposing fines, twisting some kind of nut, well, apart from, of course, fighting Collaborators, traitors and pro-Russian agents, it's understandable, and with everything else that goes on in the business of selling, including drugs, you don't have to break the rules that people are used to. You don't have to force people to follow recipes today, you don't know where to take them in conditions that are today, that work, that don't work, where there's a doctor, where there's no doctor, who's gone. And that's a lot of problems for people today. Let's not create new and unnecessary problems, let's not create new opportunities for pressure on business, for pressure on people. Today we have to take into account everything, including the psychological state of the person today, whatever. So, my friends, I'm asking you not to vote for this decision, to understand that we don't need any, again, pea-wrecking tonight, but we need to support everyone. We don't have to do that today so that whoever wants, as we say, is not buying antibiotics anywhere in Europe without a prescription. Friends don't buy anything, but in Ukraine they've been buying for years, and we need to train people to do it, not just take something to prohibit and do. So I'm going to say to you: let's be smart about all of this. And what I'm saying is, yesterday we made decisions on Russia's nuclear terrorism. Our government has not yet denounced the Nuclear Cooperation Agreement with the Russian Federation. Let's make that decision, too. This is urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u35	The word is Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluku, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u36	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, Presidium, distinguished colleagues! Looking at the agenda, the question arises: Is it the drafts of the session hall, the Supreme Council as a whole, for citizens to live better during this difficult time? Are these the urgent issues related to ensuring the security of the military? Are these the bills that support internally displaced persons, pensioners, and citizens who are now barely surviving at this level of inflation? As far as the substance of this bill is concerned. Another administrative pressure. The law is legally illiterate. Legal nihilism. Excuse me, how can you enter a responsibility that is set remotely? Who are we planning to impose a fine on by this bill? To the seer, to the pharmacist, who (pay attention!) According to this bill, his logic should be responsible if the recipe is forged? Dear colleagues, what is he, an expert, a scientist? As a result, this bill cannot be approved. It should be returned to work, and it should form a daily order of those bills that the entire Ukrainian society expects, primarily the military and our citizens, the pensioners, the pension rate of July 1st, which has risen to a minimum of 60 dollars. This is what should be considered in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u37	Please give the floor to National Deputy Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People"
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u38	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I would like my colleagues to support this bill before the first reading, the committee's decision. And in the second reading, of course, the committee will take into account the position of both the law enforcement agencies and our colleagues and will work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this will be the final speech by Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to their seats, and we'll move on to making decisions. Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u40	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, I am prepared to accept the arguments that my colleagues have put out of this rostrum, and that there are perhaps more urgent bills today that we need to be very careful about the issues that concern our people, with their services, including in the medical market. But at the same time, tell me, for what time will we be able to accept that in Ukraine, prescriptions, including medical personnel, are completely free to buy drugs that contain narcotic drugs at any time? By what time can we have enough free online pharmaceuticals to buy drugs that should be dispensed solely with prescriptions from doctors? So we need to keep order in this system, too. And the bill is about to introduce a stronger responsibility for dispensing drugs for invalid prescriptions or for violating the established procedure for medical leave, including the use of information and communication systems, remote means, the so-called electronic development of the drug trade, and so on. Therefore, it seems to us that increasing the responsibility for violating the established procedure of medical leave is important and logical today. For the second reading, I agree, we can work on exactly that number of fines and that kind of thing, we need to work on. But in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. We're moving on to making decisions. There are no more willing speakers, so please move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 42 of the Code of Administrative Offences (Registration Number 7445) with the symbol 4 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:17:30.]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to propose to re-read Bill 7445. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:18:11]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, just before I make the last possible choice -- to send the subject of the legislative initiative for further work -- I just want to ask: what is the urgent need when discussing leaving the session room? Explain to me, please. Dear colleagues, I'm making an extreme offer. No, I'm not asking you, I'm asking those who went. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing a final proposal is to send the subject of a legislative initiative to re-examine the bill with registration number 7445. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:26]] For 225 Dear colleagues, with motives? For what reasons? The motive is to vote before the vote. No motive shall be given after the vote; it shall be given before. Unless from the procedure I can give you. Please, Bujansky Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u42	Ruslan Alexiyovich, it has happened that you have never personally worked while sitting in the hall, you've always worked in the Presidium, and you don't know how it works. When a national deputy suddenly learns that without his participation, without his participation in the faction, a somehow formed agenda and there came up a question that he does not want to support very much, he does not vote. When he's not comfortable pressing a yellow or red button, he comes out of the room. Well, don't make it look personal, but he doesn't support it. That's what happens. It's parliamentaryism, it's democracy, it's how it works. That is the case with each of us when the offer does not find support in the hall. And there's nothing terrible about it. The country will not collapse, it is not the greatest threat that we have not supported this bill. Next time we'll make it. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u43	Maximus Arkadyovich, you know, well, that's such an optimistic conclusion, but I don't think you've ever worked on a consensus board. Yeah. And you don't know what it is every day for three or four hours to reconcile these things. I'd just like to ask the factions, the groups, if you see that there are such bills, please don't put them in the agenda. It's also a normal selection job. I'm out of procedure. Arthur Volodymyrovich, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u44	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I've already called your attention today and your colleagues in the hall that the agenda for the meeting is to be confirmed by the Hall of the Supreme Council. During your reply, you referred to the decree we made on February 24. I'll read what this decree is about: "To establish that the Supreme Council of Ukraine works in plenary mode continuously. Instruct the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who performs his duties, to identify (note!) The date and place of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the manner of voting as required." Please tell me, is there anything here about the agenda? So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, study the maustinee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u45	I'll send it to you now. There's not just one decision. You will discover a wonderful world and other determinations for yourself when you look at them. Now, here's the thing. I've never even talked about it. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, can I finish or should everyone just listen to your scream, Arthur Volodymyrovich? So once again, I never said I agreed to the agenda. I even said even more that when your colleagues came to me -- change the agenda -- I always said it was the jurisdiction of the Conciliation Council. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the Hall approves the order of the day’s session, and the Conciliation Council approves the order of the day. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next question is 7433. We're talking about him. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance and some other Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of natural persons during the war and the simplification of the calculation of jobs for persons with disabilities. I'm proposing (7433) to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:23:47]] For 256 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:24:12]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed to discuss this issue, so please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Please. The word is given to the People's Deputy, Kradenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u46	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u47	Beautiful. Thank you. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the faction of "European Solidarity" will support this bill, one of the few that we are voting for today. But at the same time, when we're trying to do a point on certain social issues, some of the issues that have to do with defense, I would very much like to see, first and foremost, in the daytime order, and in the order of order of conscience of each of the national MPs, there are questions about the lives of our military officers who have been captured in Moscow, and about the lives of our captives who are now, in particular, in Olenovac. I understand that we have to vote here, how to judge someone more, how to put someone in jail even more for something other than that, but today and 24 August per second is a countdown to the lives of those people who are now in Olenovac. And the Supreme Council doesn't want to include a ruling on the Helens in this session, because, you see, the ICC is out there telling us that they don't want an attack on the Red Cross there either. I'm sorry, but if an attack on the Red Cross is considered an appeal to the Red Cross, the UN, the OSCE, other international structures to condemn the actions of the Moscow Federation, to recognize the Moscow Federation as a terrorist state, to immediately assign an observation mission to study the conditions of our people's presence in the filtration and, in fact, the concentration camp, the Olenovacs, I don't understand at all what this is about here, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a good place to run for coffee, to go to the bathroom, somewhere else, to take pictures or videos, but on the 24th, we're promised a showroom, and we don't know what the fate of the people is going to be. If the Supreme Council does not immediately show its position, the monarchy will be guilty of what may happen to the people in Olenovac.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u49	The word is given to the national deputy Vlasenko, the faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u51	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u52	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, Bill 7433, which we are considering today, has a seemingly noble goal: to allow the information of the State Register of Stately Compulsory State Social Insurance to be used in order to detect violations of legislation regarding job creation for people with disabilities. In addition, the Social Security Fund is allowed to request. But we need to talk about something else: how does the social protection fund work effectively, what is the hospital payout, and how do those so - called regressors who have lost their health while working on harmful businesses or harmful working conditions. We also believe that this bill is a danger that the Cabinet of Ministers is entitled to for the duration of the state of war and 180 calendar days after it is terminated or cancelled to determine the characteristics of the purpose of recalculation and the continuation of payments and the financing of pensions. Dear colleagues, this bill will allow the Cabinet of Ministers to limit pension insurance. Read carefully where the danger is being sewn up in this bill. It can't be adopted like that. Otherwise, Kabmin will limit pensions, and this is a disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u53	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, let's get together in the hall and start voting normally. Because once again half the hall is empty, some of the deputies here are marinating, and there is no real danger. So a big request was made to all of us to get together and start voting quickly and to part. Thank you to the ruling party, most of all, if she sits in her seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. I propose the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the Universal Compulsory State Social Insurance, and some other laws of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of natural persons during the war and the simplification of the calculation of workplaces for persons with disabilities (registration number 7433). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:30:59]] For 251 Decision taken. I would like to propose to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill 7433. [[11:31:28]] For 232 Decision taken. The next bill is second reading, 7345. This is a draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of individual powers by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting in terms of state of war. I know there'll be some revisions to Princely. Six amendments to the Prince's. And how much is Windstorm? Two. Let's make six amendments to Princely, two Winds and go to the vote. Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u56	Thank you, colleagues. So amendment number six. Listen, it's important and it's about freedom of speech. The draft law is not defined. If there's a violation, then the military command can shut down the media. The project does not define any mechanism for reacting to such a call from the military, nor does it require military command to respond to such a call. Under the Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status, military command is a large number of subjects, starting with the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces to the leader of a separate section. It turns out the head of the military will be able to close any media somewhere in the Hopilnik. This and the following changes are my efforts to resolve this conflict, to preserve freedom of speech and to enable military command to work effectively. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u57	If possible, from the committee on this amendment and perhaps the following. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, we have indeed had a fruitful discussion. We're on the committee, honestly, we haven't found a solution to the problem that Mikola Leonidovich is now addressing. But we don't think there are any risks that Mikola Leonidovich is talking about. Mikola Leonidovich suggested that the Commander-in-Chief be identified as responsible, but Mr. Handsome, we understand what he's doing now, he's in charge of combat, he can't intervene yet. We are confident that military command will identify those responsible, and the risks that Mikola Leonidovich points out will not, will not, will not be simple. So I would still like to support the committee's proposal under the War Status Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 6th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Knieżick. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:20]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Please make the next amendment, Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u60	Thank you. So 7 is an amendment. I, indeed, as the honourable chairman of the committee said, offered a clear and clear mechanism for the military command to respond to Nacrada's appeal. First of all, it's the subject of this appeal -- it's really the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. But by the way, it wasn't my principle position. I suggested that we, together with the Ministry of Defence, identify and specify to whom exactly, to which military command the National Council may refer. Because according to the proposed editorial, it could be any military chief in a small town. But they refused to make this reconciliation with the Ministry of Defense. As a result, we have an absurd law. Please support the 7th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the 7th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Knieżick. The committee's offering to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:35]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Just call the number right away, please, Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u62	8 revisions. She points out that when military commanders decide to stop the distribution of radio organizations that have repeatedly violated legislation, Nazrad decides to suspend the license of such TROs for periods of military status and 30 days after its completion. Because according to the proposed wording, there is a complete uncertainty to which military command is to be addressed by the Nacrad and what is to be the result of such an appeal. As a parliament of a country that intends to become a member of the European Union, we should adopt professional laws rather than produce coalitions and uncertainties, especially when it comes to freedom of speech. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u63	8 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Knieżicky. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:49]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u64	Thank you. 10 revisions. She proposes to remove from the bill the amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice, which exempt the National Council from the payment of court fees for lawsuits that are subject to the payment of a fine. First of all, there's no reason why Nakrad's lawsuits are different from any other government structure's lawsuits for a fine, such as a tax inspection. To date, only the Fund for Guaranteeing Investments in Exceptional Cases and Unwarranted Assets has been released from the judicial congregation. Obviously, in the latter case, the size of the judicial congregation would be so great that this procedure would be impossible. The presence of the judicial congregation is a sure guarantee for the Nacrada against the abuse of their right to appeal to the court and the adoption of wrong decisions. If the Nacradis’s decision is satisfied, the court’s compensation is based on an answer. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, 10 revisions. It's partially accounted for. At the same time, the People’s Deputy insists that this amendment be fully taken into account. I'll put him on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:19]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Next. Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u66	Thank you. 11th Amendment. Among other things, it gives the Nakrad additional powers to oversee the activities of providers of electronic communications networks or services to carry out their duties to distribute broadcasting programs according to the terms of the licence. Because during the war, it's not just about turning off the language of Ukrainian television channels, but maybe broadcasts of Russian propaganda channels, maybe broadcasts of other harmful anti - Ukrainian channels. The plan should have a mechanism that responds quickly and effectively. Sadly, the majority in the committee and the members of the committee feel that such powers are unnecessary. So this amendment increases the power of the Nakrad to control the broadcasters, and it has the right to prohibit the broadcast of hostile television channels. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u67	The 11th amendment was also partially taken into account. At the same time, its author, National Deputy Princely, demands a full settlement of this amendment. I'll put him on the vote. Please vote. [[11:39:47]] For 101 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Next 12th. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u68	Yes, my last 12 amendment proposes to amend the Law on the Legal Regime of War with the aim of aligning it with the television law. Like previous amendments, it aims to remove the legal uncertainty that this bill is overcrowding. The issue of freedom of speech, the protection of information security requires a reasonable balance, both to safeguard the interests of the State and to prevent illegal violation of the rights of the speaker. Obviously, it is not acceptable for channel language to be interrupted by a military chief’s decision. But it is equally unacceptable that the Nakrad does not have effective mechanisms for responding to violations. Although the bill contains many norms that the Nacradi really need, the second reading has failed, unfortunately, to remove colossals and omissions that may pose great threats to freedom of speech. So our faction is not going to support this project, but I'm asking you to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u69	The 12th amendment of the House of Princes was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:07]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Please, Vetatrovitch, two repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Protecting our information field.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u71	Call the repair number first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u72	13 amendments, please. So protecting our information field, which is declared as the purpose of this bill, is not only about control and surveillance, but also about the reliable distribution of television and radio programmes according to the requirements of the law. There are cases where telecommunications providers stop without any explanation for the distribution of programs. And it's not just in occupied areas. The opposite of espresso, primate and fifth channels are indignant not only inside the country, but also in the international community. The Supreme Council condemned such actions in the Law on the Value of Freedom of Speech, the Guarantee of Journalists and the Media during Wartime, but the problem has not yet been resolved. My amendment contains the government's mandate through authorized authorities, agencies and services to ensure the implementation of the law and the implementation of the declaration contained in Parliament's declaration is in effect. Please support this very important amendment. And please respond to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u73	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u74	Colleagues, Vladimir Vjatrović, for which we are all grateful, offered several amendments to improve the regulator’s relationship with operators in providing these services. But really this mechanism is written down, and it's written much more accurately, in detail and correctly in the media bill that I hope we'll be discussing with you in this room soon. So we suggested to our colleagues that we now address this issue with small amendments that don't systematically solve this problem, not raise it, but systematically in the media bill. And this bill leaves it focused on the problems that it was actually developing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u75	13 Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Vítarović. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:28]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Here's another one for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u76	14th Amendment. Thank you for your answers to Mr. Mikita. But right now we're looking at the Media Act, not the Media Act, but the Nacradu Act, and I'm convinced that this issue should be decided, we can decide, in particular, by this law. Thus, Parliament, in its declaration of the value of freedom of speech, condemned the illegal obstruction of media activity. But there are no formal commitments, both by the state and by the suppliers themselves, that have stopped sending the Ukrainian channel signal, to redistribute it. The amendment is aimed at the unconditional restoration of the language of these Ukrainian channels, which are to be distributed where the State has given them permission and licences. By giving Nacradi emergency response tools in war situations, we need to respond as quickly as possible to threats of freedom of speech, information security, and the obligation of providers who illegally stop the distribution of programs, to redistribute them. This is also our information security. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the 14th Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Vátarović. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:51]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we will now literally move on to making a decision. All he wants is another confirmation amendment for Arthur Gerasimov. It's for confirmation, it's counted by committee. Please be prepared. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for confirmation number nine. And I would like to address everyone present in this room, and listen carefully. The committee really did a great job, fixed a lot of things, but they say good intentions paved the way to hell. And unfortunately, this law can't be explicitly adopted because there are, in fact, almost standards that will be used to close the channels, to close any media, and to suppress freedom of speech in Ukraine. Unfortunately, they stayed there for some reason, whether the committee wanted to get them out of there or not. So, dear fellows, I have a great request, we read this law carefully, if it had been accepted by Mikol Knieżick, it could have been accepted with closed eyes. Unfortunately, it is now a law against freedom of speech in Ukraine. The request does not support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u79	We put that in 9 or can we not put that in? You've spoken for what? Let's not bet, you wanted to speak for a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of individual authorizations by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting in conditions of war (registration No. 7345). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:47:03]] For 245 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's see the factions. Next bill, this is first reading, 6101. This is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the efficiency of economic operators. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:47:41]] For 249 Decision taken. Please, let's write this down right now: two for, two for, two against, to discuss this bill. Dear colleagues, I don't think this is going to be a long discussion, so please stay in the hall. Please sign in. Please, Danuza Alexander Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Alexia Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u81	Alexei Silent, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill, the reform is not great, but it refers to a large number of objects that are on the balance sheet of state-owned shareholders, that is, shareholders, where 100 percent of the owners are state-owned. A problem of 18 years, after the adoption of the Code of Masters, there was a legal coalition where such property under the law was considered private property, although it was essentially state property. And by this bill, we propose to regulate the management system, i.e. the lease and the alienation of this property, into a single legislative framework in accordance with the principles that we have already laid down with you in the legislation on privatization of state property and in the legislation on rent. It's hundreds, it's millions of square meters and thousands of acres of land all over the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, one more speech, and then we make a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. We will now vote. Arjev, please, Vladimir Igorovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u85	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! These are really broken principles in that bill are very important. They define the term of the State Shareholder Society, determine the order of acceptance of decisions regarding alienation, rental, and the hiring of public stockholders. And most importantly, here are the competitive principles. At the same time, we complement the regulations on the management of state-owned property objects with rules that determine the order of secession, the rental of state-owned shareholders, where 100 percent of the shares in statutory capital are state-owned. At the same time, the Committee on European Integration supported that principles do not conflict with Ukraine’s international legal obligations in the field of European integration. So what we're talking about is that this bill is consistent with the principles of European integration. I spoke on the committee, Mr. Head and honourable deputies, and I want to say now that the principles of the bill are based on the Act on Shareholder Society. Recently in this room, we passed a bill on stock companies and handed it over to the President for signature. That means that if the President signs this law on stock companies, we'll go back to this law and we'll change. With regard to the rental of property of such bills, we noted that only the defined property, which is attached to the right of equity knowledge. So what I'm saying is that it would be better to wait for the President to sign the Shareholder Society Act, then we won't do as you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the redrafting of provisions in accordance with article 116, part one, of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on enhancing the effectiveness of public sector entities (registration No. 6101). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:52:32]] For 239. Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6101. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:52:59]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The next bill is 7319. This is a draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of corporate governance of legal persons, shareholders (founding member) of which the State is a party during the legal regime of military status in Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[11:53:43]] For 240 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:54:05]] For 235 Decision taken. Please, let's write it down: two for, two for, two for. And then we vote. Please don't go far either. Please sign in. The word is given to national deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Dmitri Natalus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u89	Dmitri Nataluha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u90	Thank you, Your Honor. The bill is actually designed to increase the efficiency of the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises during the war. What is the problem? You know, we've adopted a perfectly fair bill that those members of the Supervisory Boards who weren't in Ukraine since the start of the active phase of the war, let's say, put before the fact the need for a return. Today, there are oversight councils that are understaffed, and there is not always an opportunity to conduct their congregations quickly in order to do so. In fact, the bill proposes to empower the head of the Supervisory Board to recruit the members of the unsupervised Board after the end of the state of war and to conduct appropriate competitions for the vacant posts of members of the Supervisory Boards who were recruited during the war. So it actually gives more maneuverability, it gives more flexibility, and it gives more efficiency for supervisory advice in these very, unsimply and unconventional conditions. It's the first reading. Before the second reading, even I, as the author of the bill, already have an understanding of the improvement of this edition, and I am willing to work with colleagues from other factions on their view of optimizing this law. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u92	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. We have no doubt that during wartime, a state in a government must have some special, extraordinary importance of managing its businesses, primarily strategic ones. But I'd like to go to my colleagues from the ruling coalition first. And you don't want to give us a simple example of how you can effectively manage, for example, our beloved Naftogaz? Vast debts, lack of gas, blackmail, and pre-financing requirements, and the lack of ownership of their businesses. What else needs to be done to finally get you to the head of government, to finally do the audits, to do the gas balance, and to show how it should work, corporate governance? It's about the same situation, by the way, in another strategic state monopoly, the gas transport system operator. Two and a half years after the so-called banning, the most successful, in the paws, as you said, an enterprise on the verge of bankruptcy. Another two or three months, she won't be able to pay her salary. But there's a whole mess right now with a supervisory board, with a government. The government wants to replace, the government doesn't want to be replaced. And this collapse continues. Where am I going? Friends, if we were in your bill, Mr. Dmitri, we'd see real powerful mechanisms, fast, orderly, believe me, we'd be with you. But with the authority of the supervisory board and the head of the government, there should be responsibility: you failed -- sorry, shot on the spot, I am conditionally saying, for the head of the government and for the so-called supervisory councils. And then we'll support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u93	Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u94	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, indeed, this bill is important, important, because the characteristics of corporate governance during Ukraine's legal regime of martial law for legal persons, state-owned unitary enterprises, households, where the statutory capital has more than 50 percent of the shares owned by the State. The other one. It is important that the responsibility of the manager, the deputy manager, the member of the college executive body, the members of the oversight board is to ensure that there is a 24-hour link and that duties can be carried out in a military state. Third, important, position. It is possible to continue to authorize the heads and members of the supervisory boards of the state unitary enterprise, the company. We're talking about a procedure of no more than three months from the date of cessation of hostilities in Ukraine. Fourth position. The appointment of members of supervisory boards in the state of law and the possibility of delegateing powers that belong to the authority of the subject. And we're also talking about the competence of the subjects of the general congregations of the supervisory boards of state-owned unitary enterprises and farm associations. At the same time, I would like to confirm that the standards indicated are temporary standards which, according to the basic requirements, should be included in the Final Provisions of the relevant law. But at the same time, I want to point out that there's a lot of work between the first and second readings that the committee head has been talking about, and the project requires technical legal and editorial work. I also want to say that there is no mandatory conclusion for the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u96	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction. And then we go to the vote. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u98	Please, Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, at all times and with all the importance of making corporate governance in times of war, is, let's say, more mobile and more effective, according to a professional anti-corruption committee, it contains, in fact, situations that may contribute to the commission of corruption or corruption-related offences. What does that mean? By passing on the extremely broad powers of the subject of the administration — the head of the Supervisory Board or another subject designated by the bill — we do not set out the criteria by which he can take his own judgment, without restrictions or transparent criteria, one of the three decisions: to continue the authorization of the members of the Supervisory Board, to appoint the members of the Supervisory Board on his own legal basis, or to adopt a decision that matters falling within the exclusive competence of the Supervisory Board may be approved by him personally. If, in fact, the bill contained criteria to understand when and under what conditions the subject could use his authority, of course, less questions. In this formulation, it is impossible to adopt the bill because it contains corruption. Thank you. This is the conclusion of the anti-corruption committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of corporate governance of legal persons, shareholders (founding member) of which the State is a State during the legal regime of military status in Ukraine (registration number 7319). Ready to vote? Ready? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:04:02]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this bill be returned for re-reading. — Registration No. 7319. Ready to vote? Let's do it again. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:04:35]] For 219 Well, the final proposal I can make is to return the subject of the legislative initiative to draft Bill 7319. Let the subject think about it again. Dear colleagues, please support. Please vote in favour. [[12:05:09]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected. Are you out of procedure? What procedure? Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues, let's not lose our potential, we still have a little bit of law. Let's go to Bill 7442. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures for the Use of Bankruptcy Procedures during Wartime. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[12:06:32]] For 227 I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:06:56]] For the 220. Decision taken. Sign up: two in, two in. Please give the floor to the national deputy Krivoshei Igor Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u101	Colleagues, I suggest you proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I suggest you stay put, because I think the discussion will be quick. Arjev, please, Vladimir Igorovic, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u104	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, this bill will ensure that creditors are required to be arrested for property, not only by moving and not only by the debtor, but by the property of persons who, in accordance with the code, bear with the debtor a subsidiary and solidarityal responsibility. But this entails a change to the Banking and Banking Act in order to bring this law into line with the changes envisaged by the law, to ensure that banks are divulged to the bank’s managing bank secrecy and that information is provided to arbitrators. So we see an approach through a system that needs to complement the bill with other amendments to the bill. Third position. We want to establish a form and order of direction, order of response, information to request an arbitration officer. We're talking about the estate manager, who runs the recovery, the liquidator, and the restructuring. We also want to ensure that the bill receives from the estate manager and liquidator the results of the financial and economic analysis. Complete the list of non-restructuring debts in bankruptcy proceedings. Fifth. To complete the sections of "Final Positions" in paragraph 1.6: "The conduct of meetings and a committee of creditors can be done remotely in videoconference or survey mode. The announcement of the first, the second, the auction, the execution of the sanctions plan." The name of the bill does not correspond to the content: it applies both in terms of the state of war and after it has been completed. Certain positions are not agreed upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, Sergey Mikolaiovich Evtuszek will speak now, and then we will proceed to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Evtuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. The absence of a negative conclusion by the Committee on Anticorruption is surprising, for the provisions of the bill clearly indicate that the law is so lobbying that it is even difficult to endure. The purpose of the bill is clearly to establish temporary inconveniences for the arbitrators, but these are absolutely constant. Moreover, lobbyism is shown in the fact that all rights and powers of the arbitral tribunal are directed to ensure that even under conditions where the enterprise is already insolvent, the arbitral director of its services needs to count the money. It also gives an arbitrator the right to access banking secrecy, which means that the bill adds changes to the Banking Act. That's ridiculous. The bank secret has always been a bank secret. And it's also given the right in the case of a substitute for an arbitral tribunal, not a creditor who invested money in the enterprise, to exercise control over the replacement of an arbitral tribunal, but rather a committee of creditors, as discussed by the previous speakers. We had a very good experience when we had a variety of industrial declines, we introduced moratoriums in a variety of problems, and we gave only the right when it was an enterprise that wasn't capable of going to court and passing through.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, so let's move on to making a decision. I propose that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy on the application of bankruptcy procedures during the war period (registration number 7442) be adopted on the basis of a revision of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:13:12]] For 229 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7442. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:13:42]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The following bills, honorary colleagues: 6341, 6341-1. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. [[12:14:11]] For 225 Decision taken. Please, we've spoken with statements on this bill. So please, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich, then Buzanski Maksim Arkadyovich, as the authors of the bill. Mokan Vasil Ivanovich, from the place, please. We realize that these are the circumstances, and we want to recover as soon as possible, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, in fact, today we have a unique opportunity to vote on a bill that has not been succeeded by the eight previous parliamentary calls. And I'll tell you that in 30 years of independence, Ukraine has no law that systematically regulates the area of national patriotic education and national and civil identity. The bill in question regulates and proposes a systematic approach and a systematic state policy to the area of national citizenship. It actually defines both the standards and the purpose and the purpose of this state policy, determining the authority of the subjects of the relationship, both at the central level and at the level of local self - government. And it's actually made up of three very important ingredients: it's a national patriotic upbringing, it's a military patriotic education and it's a civic education. I sincerely urge everyone to support this bill today as a basis. In fact, I want to say that when the enemy invaded our territory completely and counted on the blitzkrieg, he was confident that this would work, instead of getting the unprecedented strength of resistance and opposition, and the complication of the Ukrainian nation, I'll tell you that now the record figures and levels of patriotism, and the willingness of our citizens to defend our territory with weapons, and I'm confident that this bill will strengthen our resilience and these processes will only strengthen. All colleagues, please support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u110	Please, Bujanski Maksim Arkadyovich, author of the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, indeed, national identity is a very important question, I agree. And, indeed, I had some observations about Mr. Basil's basic law, but the committee took them away. So my alternative bill is not at all, it's no different than the basic bill, except that I cleaned up some of the positions there. But, dear fellows, it has happened that a large-scale military invasion of the Russian Federation has made a significant difference, and I think it would be better to build a new law on national identity, taking into account what is happening now, and given that it is truly an indistinguishable union of our entire country -- the war for our independence, it is a war for the existence of our state. So it would seem to me that the bill that we have proposed does not suit us very well with such tasks. But that's for your own good. Maybe you'll support it without change, maybe someone will make some adjustments to the second reading, that's already your business. I don't suggest we look at the alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion of these bills. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Viátrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Then Bobrovska Solomia. And then we vote. Please don't leave your seats. Please, Vladimir Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm really happy that we're looking at this bill today because this war that's happening right now is a war for identity, for what Ukraine will be like: whether Ukraine will be Ukrainian, whether it's European, whether Ukraine will become Soviet and Russian. So this bill, which is designed to solve the key task for each free nation -- to establish national and civil identity -- is very, very relevant. The bill, based on international law, the Ukrainian Constitution and legislation, envisages the creation of a comprehensive system of national patriotic and military patriotic education and civic education. We see what tremendous changes with national identity are now taking place in connection with war. It's very good, but it's very important that these changes in society are captured by both the state and the state institutions to make these changes the basis of public policy. The project outlines the powers of the authorities, self-government, security and defence forces, educational institutions, cultures, civil society in the implementation of state policies to establish Ukrainian identity. The adoption of this bill will certainly contribute to the unification of the Ukrainian people, the strengthening of Ukraine’s national security. But I want to remind you of another important aspect. One of the tools for establishing national identity is the book. And one of the tools used here was the Russian identity, the Russian peace, was the Russian book. You and I have passed a very important Law No. 2309, which provides for a kind of book embargo on the Russian territory. 306 deputies voted in favour of the law. Unfortunately, the president has not yet signed this law. Using the opportunity, I turn to President Zelensky: Protect the Ukrainian information field from Russian information missiles, such as Russian books, and sign Law 2309. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u114	Bobrova Solomia Anatolyevna, The Voice faction. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, you know, I've listened to one of the reporters, the other with an alternative bill, and I'd like to welcome such a transformation in depth. I think it's dead half the fauna somewhere, probably the Russian Federation, that at last a colleague present in this room finally came and supports the national identity. My appeal to vote on this bill (and hopefully the whole room will vote with green buttons) is as follows. Besides putting it in legislation, the most important thing is, of course, its implementation. And my colleague Volodymyr Vjatrović is absolutely right, and we are surprised that for over two months now the law, which has been voted by a majority, by a constitutional majority, has not yet been signed by the President. And this is about imports and sales in Ukraine of books published in the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation. Knowing what the state of printing is in Ukraine, knowing how the Harks are shooting, which is Kharkiv is the center of printing Ukrainian books, and we understand that today's publishing is actually half standing, we see the prices of books that are in the bookstores, and it's actually not available to the average Ukrainian very soon, asking for support, to sign. I'm talking to my colleagues from a majority point of view, transferring these messages to the President -- signing this law. I am surprised that Mincult continues to take a position of non-signatories to this bill, seeking formal grounds and forming financial justifications. But for this Law to work on national identity, it is primarily about the book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, and we're going to move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee’s proposals, the draft Law on Fundamental Principles of State Policy in the Field of Approval of Ukrainian National and Civil Identity (Registration No. 6341). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:48]] For 257 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6341. Please vote. [[12:24:19]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The next bill is 5742. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Cooperation of Territorial Communities on the Organization of Certain Issues of Cooperation of Territorial Communities. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:25:09]] For 222 Decision taken. Please, two for, two for, two for, two for, one for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two Please sign up: two in, two in. But don't split up, because there aren't going to be a lot of people, I mean, I get it, for some reason I do, and we're going to be going to the end of today's session. So let us prove him with dignity. Please, National Deputy Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u118	Vitaly Bezgin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u119	Good afternoon, colleagues! A technical bill was prepared by the Minregion to my conviction. In fact, a few simple things he allows: he allows us to join existing agreements on intermunicipal cooperation, he allows their body to function online, and directly when new communities enter into intermunicipal cooperation, they can finance projects within cooperation without waiting for a new fiscal year. I think it's a normal, technical bill. The committee's recommendation is based. Therefore, a request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u121	Mr. Head, I'd like a word with Oleg to the Synth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u122	Please, Oleg Blue.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, what is the point of adopting this bill? None. What will this bill do for the local communities? Anichim. The only thing that's going to be the statistics that someone's going to report on is the bills that have been adopted to reinforce decentralization. Because what do territorial communities really need? First. There must be a clear signal that there will never again be an attempt to deprive members of local councils of authority, as was the case. The other one. We need to give a clear signal that the unity of the Ukrainian forces will be preserved in the territorial communities. Because what happened in the Raven Arch, when the dominant faction decided to remove the leader from European Solidarity, and think about why? Because he advocated the support of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, against the Kiril Gundyev sect, and for this he was deprived of his office. Third. Territorial communities need to be able to manage the funds they have in their accounts. Four. It is time to invite all those responsible for preparing for the heating season to report, including help the local communities as the country prepares for the heating season. Four. We need to think about how in two weeks our children will go to school, and how the educational institutions are prepared, and how these displaced people living in schools today will be provided with housing. Because the fact that there are only half of applications for admission to higher education institutions in Ukraine today is a huge problem. What does it take? It's very simple: don't hide. And all that stuff we're talking about here, write it down and show it in the "Race" TV slot. And that's what it's gonna
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u124	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u125	Thank you, Mr. Head. On the 174th day, the burden of war rests on its shoulders, including local self-government. Local self - government is now doing great work to protect our country from armed aggression. Yes, I would like to agree that during the war some have tried to take away local self-government and influence and authority, and the possibility of using their own budget to help their own country. But today's bill is absolutely, as it were, about local self-government, for local self-government. I don't agree with a fellow member of the People's Service that this is a technical bill. It is an ideological bill, it is absolutely correct, it motivates communities even in military time to help one another, to unite for the sake of at least the small but tasks that these communities face. I realize that large communities like the city of Lviv are not very interesting, but small communities with experience of unification, who have experience using unified own funds to create small fire teams, to maintain some infrastructure, are important for others to be able to join. Unfortunately, we didn't have the opportunity to do that, and this bill is full of it. So once again, I ask you to support this bill. It's simple enough. It's not technical, it's simple, but it's right in the ideological direction. It's a bill to support local self-government. And I very much hope that the further laws that will apply to local self-government will go in the direction of decentralization, i.e. the transfer of powers, not the taking of powers or budgets into local self-government. And the bill please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. And then we vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u127	Once again, we've been consulting on this bill for a long time, and after a big speech like this, we decided to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u128	Beautiful. Sergey Volodymyrovich, you're doing miracles with another faction. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. Please take your seats. Let us move on to a decision on this bill. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Cooperation of Territorial Communities on the Organization of Certain Issues of Cooperation of Territorial Communities (registration No. 5742). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:13]] For 255 Decision taken. I would like to propose a cut in half of the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5742. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:40]] For 232 Decision taken. The next bill is 7353. It is a bill for the payment of one - time financial assistance for life and health damage caused by military aggression against Ukraine by injury or death during the course of public service, the fulfilment of obligations on critical infrastructure, and professional journalism. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:33:22]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, perhaps without discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] I would then like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:33:47]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do we want to have a discussion, honestly? Then please write down those who wish to discuss: two in favor, two in opposition. Anyone who doesn't want to, please don't sign up. Please, "Slut of the People" Schwačko Anton Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u129	I suggest we move on to the vote faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Ionova, please, Maria Mikolayevna, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u131	Please pass the word Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u132	Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u133	Dear Ukrainians, in this liberating war, every Ukrainian on his front is doing everything to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, and journalists play an important role in this. Fifty criminal acts have been violated today because of the murder, injury of Ukrainian and foreign journalists, and it is obviously our responsibility to help the families of the dead, to honor the memory of these journalists. And I'd like to have a moment of silence to honor the memory of the dead: Max Levin, Sashi, our dear, Mahova, and other journalists — who, either in carrying out their duties or enrolled in the ranks of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, gave their lives to protect Ukraine or be the eyes of that war. We are proud of you and thank you. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I want to say that the hundreds of journalists that we know personally, who worked in this session hall, unclosed, today volunteering, are gathering on the front of the donat. This is also Mikhailo Tkacak, now Alexander Bratyczak, who has joined the Armed Forces of Ukraine. There's a lot of people in the journalistic profession who are new, and obviously we have to support them in that. Similarly, there are journalists among the hostages. Journalist UNIAN finds himself among the hostages today. And we have to remember their last name, fight for them. But, excuse me, when Ukrainian journalists win the Pulitzer Prize, we have to give them a chance at a profession. It's a shame when you find wiretaps in your home. This was the last time in Yanukovich’s day. It's a disgrace that today's trial is going on five channels against what's been unlawfully closed. It's a shame that today's "The Council" TV.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u134	Please, Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u135	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, this bill is essential. and at a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, the protection of the rights of veterans, we unanimously voted to support and move it into the session room. It truly provides for the support of journalists and the support of those local authorities who are empowered by the State to defend themselves today at this difficult time when they perform their duties, and when they lose their health, the bill provides them with a one - time payment. The persons who get the First Disability Group are 800,000 disposable cash aids, the Third Disability Group is 500,000 and the Third Group is 200,000. The bill provided for the authors, and we supported a one - time payment to those who had partially lost their health and were not entitled to receive a disability group. Such a one - time payment is 100,000 dollars. Predicted by this bill and a one - time payment in the event of the death of a person. Such a payment will amount to 1 million dollars for family members. Once again, this bill is extended to several categories of citizens, and this is important. We really appreciate the work of journalists, but this bill also extends to those empowered to perform the functions of the state and local self-government, and especially to critical infrastructure workers. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt the draft Law on the payment of lump sums for the harm of life and health caused by military aggression against Ukraine by injury or death during the course of public service, the fulfilment of obligations on critical infrastructure and professional journalism. — Bill No. 7353. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:56]] For 267 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7353. Please vote. [[12:40:20]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 5628. This is a draft Personal Data Protection Act. Please, I'm asking 5628, and I'm going to suggest that we consider this with a reduced procedure. One second. Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u137	I ask you to put to the vote cleaning 7404, we have a question for the second reading, for the interpretation of the rights. We need more time to consult. Please put it to the vote to remove it from the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u138	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u139	Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, the request to leave 7404 to consider it right now, because the Conciliation Council has made such a decision, Ruslan Alexiyovich, in the morning, and I ask you to follow the Conciliation Council's decision now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u140	Beautiful. But there is an initiative that I must put to the vote. I'm offering Andrew Motovilovt. Please prepare for the vote. Remove today from the order of day 7404. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote and proceed immediately to the next bill. Please vote. [[12:42:23]] For-198 We enter into Bill 7404. We had four repairs for Sergio Vlasenka. Yes, Sergey Volodymyrovich? And then we go to the vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. I'm going to ask you to stay put, four corrections will be made in four minutes, maybe less, and we'll go straight to the vote. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u141	Thank you, Mr. Head, maybe it won't work any less. Amendment number 4. Dear colleagues, look, unfortunately, we're being offered some, in my opinion, not entirely correct structures. We are advised that the administrative lines during the war continue twice or until the day of the cessation or cancellation of the state of war. So let's figure out if we're going to take off the cross, whether we're going to put our pants on, whether we're going to wear them twice, or whether we're going to finish the war. So it can't be that in different organs, let's say NAZK says, "I'm going to continue all of my terms to the state of war," and the courts say, "No, I'm going twice." My amendment says that twice is a dot and that's it. Because there can't be an alternative in terms, there can't be either twice, or the end of the war. That means there won't be a single practice. It's wrong and it's not normal. I emphasize once again, for example, NAZK will say, "I'm going to continue until the end of the war," and the courts will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u142	Please have a brief position on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u143	The committee did not support this amendment. We think that the definition of a certain term would be more logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u144	Thank you. I'm making an offer. 4 Amendment of the authorship of the People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee turned her down. I'll bet you 4 amendments to the vote. You heard an argument. Please. [[12:44:32]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next amendment number? Sergei, please. Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u145	25, Mr. Head. Amendment number 25 on the following. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have begun to abuse the possibility and the right to hold video conferences and have very often ruled that it is impossible to deal with cases in court. I would like to make it absolutely clear that such decisions can only appear in one case: if the court is located in an area surrounded or blocked, or in an area in which active fighting is conducted or carried out. In all other cases, the courts may hear the matter in their premises, and there is no problem. And we should not be able to interpret this norm freely and say every time: but no, we won't listen to it in court, let's listen to it at a video conference or something. Thank you. Please clarify this norm and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u146	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, this amendment has been rejected. We understand that this is about administrative delinquency, and it's more of an editorial that's been proposed, the final, the main committee, more and more. So let's subtract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u148	I'm betting on the 25th amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenka. Please vote. [[12:46:18]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. What's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u149	Thank you, Mr. Head. 32rd, that's the last, I'm not going to put the fourth amendment on confirmation. What's the 32th Amendment? Colleagues, look, each of you who once took part in a court hearing understands the importance of confirming the moment when you were sent a challenge to the court, because very often the judges and the judges say that the message was given, even though it was not given. Now, at a time when e-mails are being implemented actively, when any message on your email is being sent, you have to stick to two conditions. The first condition is that this message should go to the email that you registered in the single judicial information system by your own free will. If you have not done so, please be served paper. Second, the message is considered to be delivered if the court receives confirmation of its receipt. Not only was an email sent somewhere unknown, but it was sent to the court to confirm that you had seen the message and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u150	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the committee took 32 amendments into account in an editorial manner. It's in a different edition. I think the committee's decision is more constant, balanced and consistent with the general idea of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u152	Thank you. So 32 amendments, she was considered editorially by the committee. The author of the amendment Vlasenko proposes to take it fully into account. I'm putting the people's deputy Vlasenko on the vote. Please vote. [[12:48:26]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Thank you. We still have 39 amendments, Bakumov. Do you want to put it on confirmation, or do you want to take it into account? Is that yours or not? Please, Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u153	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'd like to confirm. It's not mine, but it's counted. I'd like to turn to the hall, please don't vote. Dear colleagues, let's send him back for a second read, this bill is not ready. Well, we all heard the quality of his preparation in the hall. And we're going to finish this procedure. The committee didn't prepare him.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u154	Will you put it on confirmation, or will you just give it a minute? Okay, you won't. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Enforcement of Military Status (Registration No. 7407). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:46]] For 165 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing to resupply Bill 7404. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:50:11]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, dismissed. All of it. Thank you. The bill is rejected, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill. Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u155	Thank you, Your Honor. I would also like to use the right of my distinguished colleague, Mr. Motovilovets, to go to the hall and ask the chairman to put into the agenda the two projects that we talked about on the Conciliation Council. And only a representative of the "Serial of the People" faction didn't support it at the time, and perhaps the faction will support it. First. This is Declaration 7627, a statement to the parliaments of the world, to the United Nations, to the International Committee of the Red Cross concerning the Olenivka, which is a fact of genocide. And the second. This is Decree 7620 on the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that the "Council" channel can be recorded in its national marathon slot of the Supreme Council meeting, where all factions are speaking. Today, voters want to make sure that the Supreme Council is working, to hear the positions that unite the hall, to see our votes and wise laws. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, look, changing the agenda and changing the agenda are different things. I think you understand that. Well, come on, I'm making this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Irina Volodymyrna's offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, my friends. Please, I'm putting to the vote the procedure that Irina Volodymyrn used to call. Please vote. [[12:52:39]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions. Let's move on. 5628, draft Personal Data Protection Act. It's a Euro-Integration Bill. I'm offering to consider it as a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:11]] For 208 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, two for, two for, against can we make immediate decisions? Discussion? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. Dear colleagues, I'm really asking you. You're going to perform? Yeah, come on, the recording will go through, but I'll give Black the right to speak. Please, Jegor Chernev, because this is a very important bill. Please, Yegor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u157	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer. It's really one of the Euro-Integrated Personal Data Protection Projects, about approaching GDPR standards. It's about getting closer because our standards that we're proposing in this bill are softer so that we can gradually move to Euro-integration rules, let's say, in the protection of personal data. This is for both business and public authorities, so that government authorities, in particular, do not abuse our personal data. We leave a lot of information on the Internet today, and this information is collected very often improperly, stored improperly. It's this bill that tells us that we need to strengthen the rules on the storage and processing of our personal data so that companies don't have the right without our permission to transmit this data, so that the authorities don't have the right to use this data without our permission, so that we can make changes to this data, if anything has changed in our personal data, so that we can ban the use of this personal data, or private companies, or public authorities. Before the first rereading, we were working on this bill in terms of terminology, and we also changed something that was pointed out to us by the Chief Legal Authority, and in general, our committee recommended that the Supreme Council vote and support this personal data protection bill. So, my friends, I'm asking you a lot of questions in the first reading, and then, if anyone has a question, we'll be working on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u158	Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity political party. Dear colleagues, there will be only three speeches, so please invite your colleagues to take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u159	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u160	Vladimir Igorovich Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u161	As for this bill, the writings have not been broken once, and there have been many different discussions. In principle, it has a sufficiently contradictory standard. And I think here, really, before the second reading is what to do. We have time to protect personal data. But I don't understand why we don't have time to protect our heroes that the Russian Federation is currently holding in its prisons in Olenovac and elsewhere in a temporarily occupied territory, when they are now meeting in the bombed-out mariupoli racists to set up a court on stage. You know, it hurts my heart, and I just really don't get it. I thank the 120 representatives of the majority who have just voted in favour of joining the agenda of the Supreme Council's appeal on the occasion of the events in Olenovac. I don't understand others who didn't. I'll just read you that you didn't support it. In particular, the call for the United Nations, the Red Cross and the Doctors Without Borders to do their utmost to get the lives of our prisoners of war better. But first of all, you don't want to support the recognition of the Russian Federation, the call to recognize the Russian Federation as a terrorist state, the call to exclude SWIFT from the last banks as a means of pressure if the Russian Federation doesn't want to give up Ukrainian prisoners. I don't understand. But live with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u162	Let's move on. Next, please, National Deputy Brezin Maksim Yuriovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Just for information until Mr. Bresin gets involved. The Supreme Council, who does not remember, recognized as a terrorist state in May of this year. It's just that we have to read the laws that we adopt. Please, Berezain.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u163	Please don't waste your time and go to the polls. Airtight.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-16-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal -- air anxiety -- let's vote and then we'll finish, we'll take a break again. People's deputies please take their seats. You don't mind, Fatherland? Then let's go to the vote. Take your seats, and then we'll move on. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Personal Data Protection Act (registration number 5628). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:34]] For 212 To 221. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's send him one more time. I'm going to propose that this bill be sent back first and that all the things that are there be cleaned up. Please. It could be the first time twice. Please, I'm asking you to re-send Bill 5628. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:17]] For 219 [[13:00:23]] The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have not completed our consideration of matters of order of the day, but of air anxiety, so we are not closing our plenary session. The time and place of our next meeting will be announced in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We'll win together. Glory to Ukraine!
