ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that once the login is started, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the login. People's deputies please register. [[10:05:40]] There are 218 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies and Visitors to the Supreme Council of Ukraine! First of all, we all know what happened yesterday. And now the Supreme Council is finalizing the preparation of a statement on behalf of the Supreme Council, which is now being worked on by a profile committee. And I think as soon as she's ready, we're going to bring her into the hall right now, and I really hope we can support her. In addition, the distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on February 20, the whole of Ukraine honored the Day of Heroes of the Heavenly Hundreds. Now in the guest bed of the Supreme Council balcony are the families of the fallen Heroes of the Celestial 100. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'm informing you that we had a meeting last week with representatives of the families of the Celestial Hundreds, and we've agreed on appropriate legislative initiatives that we're voting on in the Hall today. And the first question that we're going to vote on is the question of the corresponding legislative status of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 and the families of the Celestial 100. So I am asking you to support me today too. Because the heroes of the Celestial 100 are peaceful citizens who, during the revolution, were not afraid and dedicated to the Midan, and independence stood at the cost of their own lives. Thank you! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the light of the memory of each of them will always remain in our hearts. Therefore, I ask that you honor the memory of the Heroes of Heaven by a minute of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Also, the honorable families of the Heavenly Hundreds, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, I inform you that at 12 o'clock in the towers of the second and third floors there will be an exhibition dedicated to the events of the Dignity Revolution. I also invite you to visit her. Please, from Dmitry Alexanderovich's procedure, then let's move on to issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich! Today’s agenda for the consideration of the Supreme Council does not exactly meet the challenges facing the state today. The request, honourable Ruslana Alexiyovich, to assemble the Conciliation Council, to make changes to the agenda of the Supreme Council for this week, to identify priority drafts that will affect our state's defence capacity, to make changes to the state budget, to start up the real work of the TRO, to protect low-security population levels, to prepare for energy challenges that may be associated with the decommissioning of the Russian Federation through Belarus and gas, and many other issues that really concern the population today. Likewise the request to invite the President and discuss with him the issue of the introduction of martial law in the Luhansk and Donetsk areas, today is really necessary, and finally to consolidate the work and the Supreme Council, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u3	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm informing you that we're having regular consultations with faction leaders and groups, and we've already discussed how we plan to proceed, there's definitely going to be a break, I've already got an announcement about this break. And once we've gone through the first questions that I've heard, the leaders of factions and groups will surely gather and express their position on the order of the day. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups for proposals, announcements and reports. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. Please. I'm just reporting to the families of the Celestial 100, in the Rules for half an hour, we have to talk about this situation, and then we'll move on to the law that we've discussed with you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich, MP of "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u5	Please, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Yesterday's decision to recognize the independence of self-proclaimed DNRs and LNRs is an unprecedented violation of international law. This decision is aimed at violating Ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty, in fact an attack on Ukraine as a subject of international politics. Tragic events in Ukraine have begun to change geopolitics since 2014. International politics is shaped, not by dialogue and diplomacy, but by pressure and aggression. This is not just about physical invasion of our territory, which has been going on for 8 years, but about a significant increase in the information war and the constant siege of Ukraine, and the real point of this siege is the center of Europe. The escalation of the conflict in our eastern part of the country has been described by foreign media as the greatest risk of war in recent decades. In Donetsk and Luhansk, gunfire intensified, and again, unfortunately, there are casualties. In addition, there have been constant provocations on the line of delimitation in the past week, and the recognition of self - proclaimed republics by the Russian Federation and the introduction of troops into occupied territories makes the situation even more difficult. All of this creates security risks for Ukraine and the world, but I am confident that Ukrainians will defend and protect their territorial integrity and sovereignty. And we ask all the states of the world not to recognize self-proclaimed republics in Donetsk and Lugansk regions, but to immediately apply sanctions to the aggressor country. Our parliamentary group supported a call by colleagues on the sequence of actions related to the de-escalation of military conflict, the establishment of peace and the liberation of Ukraine. In addition, the "Trust" MP supported the "Fatherland" initiative and signed an appeal to international partners to take measures to ensure the independence and integrity of Ukraine's borders in accordance with the Budapest Memorandum. I am sure that Parliament will vote in favour of these appeals, as well as for the appeals that are currently under way. I hope that our international partners will unite to prevent the destruction of the European security system and to support Ukraine in its actions aimed at deescalating the situation in the east of our country. In this situation, therefore, all branches of power and all political forces must unite and stand up for our nation and resist the enemy. Everyone has to have a single goal, which is to protect our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u8	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! For the last 8 years, Ukraine has actually been hit twice by our neighbors in the form of an occupation, an annexation of our territories. Ukraine’s 30 years of independence consistently showed that it was never going to take anything from anyone else, but at the same time it could never even think and expect neighbors to take part of the territory of Ukraine. For 30 years, our doctrine had no expectations of war, and more conflicts with our neighbours, both European and former Soviet neighbours, in the SND countries. Unfortunately, we got this situation, and Ukraine got the second decision from the Russian Federation to occupy our territories. Yesterday, the President of the Russian Federation acknowledged the so-called independence of so-called self-proclaimed formations in the territory of temporarily occupied Ukraine, the so-called DNR and LNR. By this decision, the Russian Federation has once again grossly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within recognized international borders. We've been trying for eight years to keep those agreements that were signed in the Minsk negotiations. We've been talking for eight years about what we're looking for, how do we do everything we can to get back the territory of the so-called self-proclaimed republics to Ukraine and to develop normally, to get the money, to get all the possibilities of Ukraine after the restoration of this territory. Unfortunately, all these years, everything has been done to suppress the military conflict, everything has been done to support these self-proclaimed leaders, and unfortunately, we have seen that Russia has led politics to essentially occupy this territory. Today the Supreme Council has to make a statement, today the Supreme Council has to address the entire international community to show the real situation, to show the real intentions of the Russian Federation. Sadly, we realize that our neighbor will not stop in these activities. Ukraine's only response can be a powerful army, the development of a powerful economy, the creation of a powerful investment climate, and the situation where we really start to think about our energy dependency. When Ukraine becomes strong, powerful, it will be able to fight for itself and.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u9	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u10	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you know, it's a long time for us all to realize that we've been on the verge of a new world for over 8 years, which is actually quite old. Peace in Europe lasted only 70 years, and in this new world it is firmly claimed that war is peace, and freedom is slavery. This is actually what the click is talking about, the KGB is about the rebirth of the Soviet Union, where Ukraine is one of the most important puzzles on the map of the Soviet Union. The recognition of the so-called republics Russia made yesterday is a direct act of aggression against Ukraine. And it's probably already an episode of the Budapest Memorandum violation. Today it is very likely that the Russian Federation recognizes that the so-called republics have their limits within the borders of our areas, which means that there may be further escalation and full invasion, which has already begun, because the Russian technique at night, you have seen, has already entered the official borders of the Lugansk, Donetsk regions of the state of Ukraine, and even without the Chevrons that they were sticking to themselves in the 14th year. For our part, we need to understand that this is not just another regional conflict, but actually an existential war, so we need to take immediate action. The first is, of course, to cancel the special status of the ORDLO. And the relevant decisions should already be registered with the Supreme Council. Enter the military situation in the Luhansk and Donetsk areas and be fully prepared for possible potential escalation and military incursion beyond the boundaries that are currently in place. Sanctions are imposed on the Deputies and their families, as is the case with Putin’s immediate surroundings, including the military leadership of the Russian Federation and family members. And I'm ashamed and ashamed that for over a year, there are similar sanctions in the Committee on Security and Defence that are still not directed to the PNB. Establish a visa regime with the Russian Federation and eventually break diplomatic ties. The next step is, of course, sanctions against all state banks of the Russian Federation. And of course, look to all the countries that are on our line today for immediate military, technical and financial support through Russian aggression. Actually, we're waiting for sanctions that will stop the North Stream-2 and also shut down the Russian Federation's SWIFT. It is unrealistic to impose sanctions on newly created republics rather than react to direct aggression. To start and end the fight against the Fifth Column is finally a ban on the pro-Russian political forces. And apparently, communication with the population of Ukraine about who has Russian passports, especially those who are sitting in the Supreme Council today. And of course, to complete internal reforms: the judicial system and the law enforcement agencies, that's education and legal policy. That's what depended on what made us unable to move, and actually what we were all stuck in yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u11	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u12	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! After Putin’s statement yesterday and the official introduction of troops into occupied Ukrainian territories, the world became different. We, as the Ukrainian Parliament, cannot continue to live as before: gambling, advertising of electronic cigarettes, compulsory feeding of convicted persons, statistical changes, and a host of other ridiculous laws. That's what the inadequate authorities offered us yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The people see that these are inadequate positions that need to be changed immediately. The people can see that the majority have been robbed of the "great theft," and I'm proposing now to do the "big building" -- a large state building and a large army building. I'm sure that for four months of global anxiety, you've rejected the threat and you've given up nonsense, that it's the Western partners that are leading the information war against Ukraine, and that SNN is worse than Solovyov and Skabeyev. Parliament has in no way responded to the threats that the whole world faces, convincing us that there will be no attack. It is the criminal inaction of anyone who has hindered the adoption of the laws necessary for defence. And now the one who thinks Putin is going to stop is wrong, because right now the parliamentarians of the State are saying they're going to restore Donetsk, Lugansk so-called republics within the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. It's not over yet, it's just the beginning. And the clock attack of Paralytic Putin left no doubt that he saw no place on the map for either Ukraine or the Ukrainians. And that's why we demand that our Bill 6542 on Enhancing the Defence of the State and Support of the Ukrainian Army, on the Encouragement of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, on the Formation of the Strategic Reserve, on the Provision of Territorial Defence, be immediately put in place and voted. This is our sacred duty to the Ukrainian people. Consider also information security. Please submit our bill on collaborators and responsibility. It is our duty to address these defence issues. And invite Zelensky to the Supreme Council. We're gonna win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u13	The word is given to national deputy Tarasenko Taras Petrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Oleni Shulak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u15	Olena Schuljak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u16	Dear Ukrainians, I would like to begin my speech by addressing you, those who can hear us and watch us. Thank you for your peace and confidence in the State. Thank you to all who were not afraid, who, as always, came to their workplace at the office or at the factory. I want to thank all our doctors, teachers, rescuers, policemen, all those who have replaced and continued to do their important work. We want to thank our military, our defenders, especially those who protect us and all Europe from the aggressor at this time. Boys and girls, thank you for your courage, you are proud of the country today. Your courage and professionalism adds calm to the Ukrainians and makes the aggressor nervous because the decision to recognize the occupation structures in Donetsk and Lugansk's Russian leadership recognizes only one fact: they have thus responded to the power of the Ukrainian state, which has not given up and will not give up national interests. The Kremlin must have thought that this decision would lead to despair, but they made the same mistake when they thought that threats of military force would force Ukrainians to take Greek out of shops or to flee the country. So I want to assure everyone who looks at us and listens to us, no matter how much we are required to give up part or all of Ukraine's sovereignty, no matter how much blackmail we're blackmailing, we won't agree to it. Now, the main thing is to stop Russia's escalating steps and ensure a fair Western response to the steps that are being taken. Why does an aggressor allow such behavior? The president was right when he demanded sanctions before the escalation. If the world sees a nation preparing for the expansion of aggression, it deserves a hard answer, and its absence has given Russia the impression that they can ignore the whole world. This was a mistake and this error needs to be corrected as soon as possible. Russia’s decision to recognize occupation will condemn the entire civilized world. But whatever the reaction of foreign nations, we must continue our work. In this movement, I would like politicians to follow the example of our citizens and remain calm. This means having calm confidence and a cold head, not giving in to the provocation of an aggressor, or deepening the situation with emotional populism calls and actions. Now is not the time to increase political dividends, now is the time to work together to strengthen the country and protect it. We need to adopt the laws that are necessary for defense, and they are in order this week, and we need to continue the reforms that make our nation stronger and people more confident.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u17	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Papiev Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, after yesterday's decision of the Russian Federation, we need to understand how we can live on, including understanding what Parliament should do. I am sure that there will be no policy in this room that will make a decision and agree that Donetsk and Lugansk are not Ukraine. But just so it doesn't happen to Crimea, when we all say Crimea is Ukraine, in words we all support, we create Crimea platforms, something else, and in Crimea we cut off economically and, in fact, domestically. I think that today's situation needs balanced solutions, and I completely disagree that any further statement or appeal can solve this problem. The tension, which is outside the country and within the country, has to be solved only by diplomatic means, with international intermediaries, because if this goes on for a few months, our economy may just not last. And our task is to support the diplomatic path of solving and reducing tensions both externally and internally. So, honorable, and as far as Donbas is concerned, we need to restore economic relations with these territories so that these people can see that we have not refused them, and we want them to return home, no matter what the decisions. I believe that only by diplomatic means can we restore justice and peace in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u19	Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u20	Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues! First of all, I want to make it clear that our entire team is in their jobs, and I want them to stop the provocation. I'm looking at that all of the factions are now almost fully stocked in places and working conditions. Parliament is working to protect Ukraine. I also want to say very clearly what happened yesterday, and we don't have to look for other words. There was an official full-scale Russian army invasion of Ukraine yesterday, and we must act adequately. I am convinced that what we have just seen is, unfortunately, just the beginning of the pressure on Ukraine, the encroachment on our sovereignty, on our independence. And we need to be prepared for that. We need to learn, unfortunately, to live as Israel does: with a successful country, with a successful economy, a happy nation, and an unprecedentedly strong army that can carry out a containment strategy and protect our borders. We need to take the next steps immediately with you. In view of these circumstances, we need to step up fully, review the military doctrine of Ukraine, because the threat we have is obvious and unfortunately for a long time. Secondly, we need to strengthen our army immediately multiple times, and if the President says that we can double, three times, increase the power of our army by reviewing the budget, we need to do so together with a review of military doctrine. We need to take immediate care of our defenders, who are now in the trenches protecting Ukraine: at least three times the increase in financial security and the support of families fighting our defenders and protectors. We need to know that today an aggressor country can make a decision or go and capture the Donetsk and Lugansk region, or stop at the line of delimitation. But in any case, it's an invasion and we need to ask our Western partners to put into practice the harshest sanctions, and not only what we were promised if there was a massive invasion. We need to act. Territorial defense today is one of our defense strategies. We must act as one team, a country of national unity, a parliament of national unity, a national society.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Please proceed with the Buymaster procedure. And then Lozinski. I'm just asking you to do the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u22	Ludmila Buymeister, the city of Kiev. Colleagues, yesterday the Russian Federation officially attacked Ukraine, and today we see a day-to-day order that does not match the level of threat, but is a threat to Ukraine itself. I demand that one question be put to the vote today is the UN Security Council, the signing countries of the Budapest Memorandum, the countries of the Great Seven and the European Union on the introduction of peacekeepers into Ukraine. This is the only thing that can stop the Kremlin today is the only thing that can stop Putin's aggression. That's why. I know there are many patriots in this Parliament, but we also know that there are many pro-Russian forces. Let us prove that our Parliament is still Ukrainian, and we will vote on this. And to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u23	Parliament is normally Ukrainian and has always been, and will be Ukrainian. Dear colleagues, let's do this. Now it was definitely out of procedure, because the procedure is not what you're talking about. And if you're talking about that statement that's being prepared right now, it's being prepared and introduced into the hall. Jaroslav Ivanovich. I'm sorry, Lozinski. Then Jaroslav Ivanovich. And then Shahov. Let us then move on to the consideration of matters. Please, Password from the procedure. Says there's no card. It's all there is. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u24	Yes, thank you. Roman Lozinski, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, those events that are happening, we all see, we understand that this is from the stage of the virtually undeclared war of the Russian Federation going into the phase of the declared war. Mr. Head, I'm addressing you. In 2020, I initiated Bill 4492 in order to recognize that the Law of Ukraine on, in fact, the special status of Donetskina and Luhanskina -- the law of Ukraine, which, year after year, went on in disgrace, but we all understood why. Now, after the Russian Federation has embarked on an outspoken aggression, has introduced troops into our territories no longer hidden at night, and in the open day, we cannot afford to have a law in our Parliament that recognizes Russian language, special status in the territory of Donetskina, Lugansk and other matters. Mr. Head, please transfer this bill to the committee as an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u25	Thank you. The urgency of the document is given by voting in the Chamber, not by the decision of the Parliamentary Manager. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich. After that, Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then the Iron Man. Then Shahov. And then we move on to the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u26	Mr. Head, I'm about to make a statement. I point out that, apart from the fact that we really have instead of the laws that stand in order of the day, there should be military laws, and there are, and there are, and there are, of increasing the defence budget, and there are other laws that are necessary for our army to take the initiative, there are many laws that not only do they not now correspond to the spirit of time, but they directly violate the procedure. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that, according to the privatisation bill, 5,397 tables have not been published by 10 o'clock. People's deputies will vote for what. What's more, there's been a forgery where laws have been put into breach, 116, procedure. I refer to you as the Head of Parliament, to remove this law, to review the agenda, to add laws to increase the budget to the army, and to really make Parliament a parliament, not to turn it into a printing press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u27	Jaroslav Ivanovich, once again let you know that after this we will have a meeting with the heads of factions and groups where we will discuss issues related to today’s order. And the result of this compromising conversation will be in the hall today. So let's not pressurize and keep our peace in Parliament. Please, Shahov. And then we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u28	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, let's face it, Donbas is on fire for eight years. There was an extraordinary event yesterday. And, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you at the council to raise the question of the raw Donbass zone and the removal of the people from the gray Donbas zone. Humanitarian assistance. Last night there was no light, no heat, and so on. Are we not responsible for the people of Donbas? You don't have to throw people into a fire today, you have to take care of the Ukrainian people and Donbas -- this is Ukraine. Right now. I don't know how military position is, and humanitarian aid should be Donetsk and Lugansk areas, people in distress today. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda, this list is given to you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the first question of the draft Order of Amendments to the Order of the Day of the Seventh Session. I don't think you'd mind if we did start with 6,454 -- a question related to the law that we discussed with the families of the Celestial 100. There's no objection, is there? So, dear fellows, I bet. We go to Bill 6454 with alternative 6454-1, 6454-d. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (with respect to reasonable terms of criminal conduct). Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[10:40:22]] For 216 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of Ukrainian National Deputy Fedin Sophia Romanovna, author of Bill 6454. Heratchenko Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. God, I'm sorry. Irina Volodymyr. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, it's very symbolic that this week we're starting with you to discuss a bill that deals with justice -- fair punishment for the killers of the families of the Celestial Hundreds. The war between the Russian Federation and Ukraine began eight years ago when Moscow attacked our country in the same way because it is primarily a threat to it is a democratic European country. And the highest price for Ukraine's future was then paid by the Celestial 100 heroes. Regrettably, there are still no homicide cases under investigation today, and families rightly complain that there are artificial delays, as well as the party responsible for the killings, and they are trying to delay the investigation. So this bill is written in co-authorship with the families of the Celestial 100, with the prosecutor’s group conducting the investigation. And he will help the lawyers and families of the Celestial 100 to stick to the process so that there will be fair punishment so that no one can use the lasagna that is currently in criminal activity to artificially delay the investigation, investigation, and trial. We ask very much for the support of this bill. Thank you. I also know that the committee has considered its bill, which is consistent with two (my alternative, our alternative). We don't mind looking at the committee's version of the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u31	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Fedienek Alexandre Pavlovich, author of the alternative bill 6454-1. Please, Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u32	Good afternoon, colleagues. The reasons that made me submit an alternative bill are simple and understandable. The current text in part two of article 159 of the Criminal Procedural Code states that temporary access to items and documents is made on the basis of an order of the investigating judge. Bill 6454 proposes to amend the Ukrainian KPC and to provide the investigating prosecutor with the approval of the investigating judge, in urgent cases, with the right to access the items and documents with the next appeal to the investigating judge. In this way, nonderogable access to electronic information systems or parts thereof, mobile terminals, communication systems, and information is offered. I have all the conflicting rules removed in my bill. Draft Law 6454 partially eliminates inadequacy, but changes to a number of articles of the Ukrainian CPC propose to introduce the right of temporary access to things and documents on the basis of a procurator's decree. The positions indicated leave risks of nonderogable access to electronic information systems or parts thereof, mobile terminals, and communications systems. In addition, the Law on Electronic Communications establishes that access to consumer information, the fact that electronic communications services are provided, including data processed for the purpose of transmitting such information in electronic communications networks, is made solely on the basis of a court ruling, the investigating judge in cases and order provided for by law. Then, when the draft law is finalized for second reading, it is necessary to revise the provisions that will give temporary access to things and documents only, and to study, with the permission of the court, not on the basis of the determination of the prosecutor's order. I propose to support Bill 6454-d in the first reading, but the committee in preparing for the second reading will take note. Once again, my friends, access to things and documents should be solely on the basis of a court decision. Thank you for your attention. Please support the proposed Bill 6454-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u33	Thank you. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on the Law Protection of Sergei Konstantinovich Ionushas, four minutes, because from the authors of the bill and from the committee. Please, Sergey Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, let me begin by thanking our colleague Alexander Fedienka and Irina Heratchenko for initiating this process. I also want to thank Maxime Pavlück, who was very close to drafting this bill. The Committee on Law Enforcement considered two bills at an extraordinary meeting on February 21. And since the bill is alternative, i.e. that it regulates the same circle of issues and repeats the substance of the regulation of the same social relations, it can be followed by the procedure provided for in part two of article 110 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which provides that, when considering alternative bills, the Main Committee may recommend to the Supreme Council that one of them be based on them or that another bill be drafted for consideration by the Supreme Council. I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for his request, for his commission to convene an extra committee and still to make the appropriate decision. During the meeting of the committee, discussions were held with representatives of the Attorney General's Office, the State Bureau of Investigation and prepared, and a registered committee bill, number 6454-d. During the discussion of the bill in view of the provisions of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the members of the Committee pointed out the need for amendments to the draft bill for consideration in the second reading under certain provisions of the law, such as electronic communications, free legal assistance, as well as certain provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine concerning the procedure for reviewing the period of action and the manner in which the prosecutor's ruling on temporary access to items and documents was being challenged. I have been approached by many of our fellow national deputies from various factions and, indeed, my fellow Members, today we must support this bill on a basis and work it together for a second reading. As a result of the consideration and discussion of the amended bill, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include a bill in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and the outcome of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, I will ask you to support this bill as a basis and work together for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u35	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, I understand. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u37	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Now, when we consider this bill, we have a very important task: to do everything we can to make it impossible for the organs of the pretrial investigation and the court to deviate from the rules of reasonable investigation periods. Because in many resonating cases, these cases are largely related to the mass executions of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, it is possible that a period of time may pass when accused persons are brought to criminal responsibility and that such persons are effectively prevented from being held accountable for their actions. We all face the challenge of punishing those responsible for the shootings of the Celestial 100, attracting them to responsibility, because, unfortunately, there are now a lot of comments "and nothing has happened." And especially in yesterday's statements by the aggressor country, we have the emphasis that Maidan was a coup d'état and that's what today is. There were peaceful police shootings at Maidan. Ukraine should finally put a stop to this issue, but instead of the provisions of these bills that are now there, there is a danger of using individual positions precisely in the pursuit of individuals who may be disagreeable with one or another authority. We therefore emphasize that changes are to be made, but with the specific emphasis that they relate to mass killings, mass tragedies, especially in the case of the shootings of the Celestial 100. And so, we have to do everything we can to ensure that the murderers of our Heroes of the Celestial 100 are brought to account before the law, before the country and before the people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u39	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Muchenec Oleni Volodymyrni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Maxim Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u41	Maxim Dirdin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u42	Maxim Dirdin, "Serial of the People" faction. Colleagues, I propose to support Bill 6454-d in the first reading, the committee bill. There is no doubt that this bill has the necessary points to ensure that there are reasonable terms in criminal conduct, particularly in the case of Maidan. There are real examples when artificial moments are created to really prolong the criminal process. However, the committee bill contains ambiguous proposals on the rights and legitimate interests of lawyers in criminal conduct and their direct functions as protection. We need to understand that the proposed changes are made not only for Midan’s affairs but also for other criminal activities, such as what may be in the future. We must maintain a balance between protection and prosecution so that all parties have equal rights in criminal conduct, and therefore, colleagues, please support the committee bill in the first reading and submit their proposals and amendments to the second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u43	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Slavické Antonini Kirilovni, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u44	Please give Gregory to Mommy a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u45	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Party, citizens of the Ukraine, are present! I want to pay attention and recall when a year ago we also conducted this procedure and talked about a bill that needed to be adopted, which would help to investigate cases of the death of the Heroes of Heaven. It's been a year. It's been a year. What's changed? The answer is obvious. I've been speaking and saying that all the bills have nothing to do with events that they're not, no matter what their attitude is. The law can't be adjusted, the law is to put in place a mechanism or a legal relationship. Well, you can't change that. Dear colleagues, it's been a year, again with the bills, it'll help. The answer is obvious: it doesn't help by the word "at all," don't listen to anyone. The law must be a norm. What is determined by this bill, both one and the other? The procurator’s capabilities are added, but again in a defined section. Then we need to make a decision: Why the court, then let's give it all to the prosecutor. And other criteria that have absolutely nothing to do with investigating criminal conduct. There are healthy initiatives in this bill: the closure of criminal conduct where it is impossible to hand over suspicions and everything else. Dear colleagues, if we want to help with the course of the investigation, it is necessary to make conceptual decisions and assign the terms of each participant, including the judge, and then it will be true, and then the citizen of Ukraine will know the outcome of which and when it will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u47	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich. No, no, first Kostenko, then Vlasenko. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, political faction. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u48	Roman Costenko, the Voice faction. Please pass it on to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u49	Jaroslav Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u50	Jaroslav Jurchisin, Voice faction. You know, this bill really gives rise to a lot of rain. The first thing I'd like to say is to apologize to the families of the Heavenly 100 for the freeness of the prosecutor's work, regardless of who led it all this time. And it's not about changing laws, it's about changing prosecutors who aren't able to prove these problems in a normal legislative field. The other one. I want to remind you. Thanks to the initiators of the bill that they are drawing attention to this bill, but to remind us how, in the interests of the families of Heavenly Satan, they actually raided the State Bureau of Investigation. We have a huge chance that this bill will become the same. Positions that allow without, in fact, the court's decision to download information from information media, that is, from mobile operators, or actually to take any action without a court decision, but only the prosecutor's judgment, which I recall, has not been able to bring matters to a decision all this time. It's absurd, it's an extension of authority to those who failed. Therefore, it would be most logical to send these bills to read again, not to try to accept something at the top. So I'm addressing everyone, colleagues, especially the opposition, we have a lot of cases where they work qualitatively for second reading as a minimum. So let us include the cold mind and vote by conscience, and prosecutors who failed to do so long ago need to be released and held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Any other factions or groups? Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich and then Olena Kostovna, and we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. Everyone who died during Midan's events, with his life as a shield, shut Ukraine down, paid the highest price any person could pay, that's life. And the shame is that in eight years, the guilty are not brought to justice, and we, as the Supreme Council, have to do everything we can to get the guilty to be held accountable and punished. In doing so, we should understand, of course, that eight years has not been so easy to investigate, that there are specific faults that should also bear responsibility: why impunity dominates the country, why 8 years of society has no answer to simple questions - who is to blame.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u53	The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich. Then there's Lubenets. And then Condratjuk. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u54	I would like to express once again the words of sincere respect for the families of the fallen Heroes of the Celestial 100, and from all those present in the Chamber of Deputies, to express to you the great respect and respect for those who are not with us. Their memory is bright. And of course, I agree with what needs to be done today in order to create the conditions to end the cases that are being dealt with, to identify the guilty. And this is really a matter for parliamentarians. So today's bills that we're considering, including in this plane, but we need to be very careful about these norms that are related to the changes in the Criminal Procedure Code, so that they don't damage the whole process. And we're going to vote for the "d" bill. We're ready to work on the second reading of the proposals that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u56	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of the bill in the first reading. Dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to convey to you all the greetings from the people who live in the territory of Donetské, Luhanské region. I came back from there at night and I want to tell you that people are expecting us to react and do real things. They took some of the territory away from us. If the reaction is similar, believe me, no one will stop there. So I urge the Ukrainian Parliament today not just to take political decisions, but to vote on real things: to increase funding in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to show that we are the only ones. And with the opportunity, I would also like to thank those national MPs who find the opportunity to come there. The Ukrainian Parliament should now work 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to the floor of Olenna Kostovna Kondratjuk. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Olena Kostvena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the families of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100! It is the moral and human duty of all to mention the lives of the dead not only once a year but also to make constant efforts to show respect and dignity to the nation. Last year we voted with you the historic Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the Eromaydan and the Revolution of Dignity. Parliament has recognised the events of 2013-2014 as a key moment in the Ukrainian state-building and as an expression of the national idea of freedom. We have met with the families of the Celestial 100, and we realize that there are still many questions to be resolved. In addition to the question that is being considered today, these are changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, we also understand that we need status as to who we have as Heavenly Hundreds Heroes, according to this benefit that their families receive. We have a lot of work ahead of us, but I am very much asking to support today's bill, which is being considered today, so that we can pay tribute today to the families that are here today, and we know who our heroes are in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u59	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal from the committee, the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for the observance of reasonable criminal conduct periods) (draft registration number 6454-d). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:22]] For 304 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u60	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! By yesterday's decision, the aggressor country finally destroyed the international system of law and order, and I want to say that they won't stop at that. I also want to remind you that the key guarantee of our sovereignty is the Ukrainian army. That's why, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm now asking you to put a vote on the agenda of Bill 6542 on increasing the costs of defense and strengthening the state's security, on allocating 50 billion extras to provide military personnel, on strategic reserves, on POPs and so on. And I am personally addressing every Ukrainian national MP to support the Ukrainian army right now and to include this bill in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u61	Arthur Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies. Talk about it, huh? How's that? No, no, wait. When there is an offer to discuss. Please, Danilo Alexanderovich the Getmans. Any proposal made in the hall may be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, what is happening today in the country is a reason for consolidation, a reason for unifying efforts, but certainly not a reason for the political pianist. We have two bills in the agenda of this session: 7038 and 7012. These bills are balanced, these bills provide for the financing of the army, and adequate sources of money to finance the expenditure. And to write a bill about 50 billion just to allocate armies, you don't need a lot of intelligence. It's a pianist. [[B in m in s a l in]] A political pianist when the country needs responsible decisions. Please don't support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u63	Anyone else want to discuss this proposal? Nobody. Dear colleagues, then I'm proposing to National Deputy Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:06:05]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement for a break, a real break. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Let's, uh, let's make a statement, and then we'll talk about it. There's been an announcement with two factions on the intermission, the Fatherland faction and the Trust Group. A half - hour break is announced. Please. I invite you to lead the factions to me to discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, as chairman, I take a break for another half hour, so we meet at 12:30. Consultations continue on the heads of factions and groups on the statement to be made by the Supreme Council. Thank you. Meet me at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Two factions took a break with a replacement for the performance, "To the Future" and "The Servant of the People." And we meet at 1 p.m. to discuss the Supreme Council's statement on the recognition of these forms by the Russian Federation, and the discussion will take place in full procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the work of documents on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues. An interval of more than half an hour is announced for up to 13 hours for 35 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u67	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, we are the only ones who continue to consult on the leadership of factions and groups. And we have agreed simply by consensus that today's plenary session should continue until a decision is taken on this statement, which we will now vote on. No objection, dear colleagues? Thank you. Dear colleagues, besides that, we're with you today. There is this proposal, and it is also unanimously agreed with all factions and groups, on the basis that the rules of procedure for dealing with this issue are: 3 minutes -- a general report, 3 minutes -- on the question and answer of the report, 3 minutes -- on the report of the committee, 3 minutes -- on the question and answer to the committee's head; and then 10 minutes from each faction and group to discuss the matter. Up to 10 minutes, not 10 to 10. And then we move on to making a decision. Understood, colleagues? Each faction and group will have up to 10 minutes. Please, can't I see who's there? Gurin, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u68	Where can we all see the final text? It needs either to read, or to distribute, the dates of the link.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u69	I'm a reporter, I'll read it. This is the final text that was agreed upon by all. And now they're going to distribute it, spread it all out. By the time you vote, you'll have a vote. Dear colleagues, may we begin?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u70	I invite the authors to report to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I'll try to bet in three minutes, but please, if I'm a little late, don't turn off the microphone, because we all need to hear the final text of the application. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the recognition by the Russian Federation of the independence of self-proclaimed formations in the temporarily occupied territories of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine (registration number 7088). With your permission, I'm going to announce this application, which is prepared. Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with recognition by the Russian Federation of the independence of self-proclaimed entities in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine On February 21, 2022, the President of the Russian Federation acknowledged the independence of illegal self-proclaimed formations in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and ordered the introduction of Russian Federation troops into Ukraine. By this decision, the Russian Federation committed another act of aggression and once again grossly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within internationally recognized borders, as well as a series of international and legal acts of a multilateral and bilateral nature. In particular: Statute of the United Nations, Final Act of the Council for Security and Cooperation in Europe of 1 August 1975 and Memorandum on Security Safeguards in relation to Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of 5 December 1994 ( Budapest Memorandum. This decision has been approved by the Russian leadership in spite of all the efforts of Ukraine and the international community to resolve peacefully the international armed conflict in the territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine. Having adopted the said decision, the Russian Federation unilaterally withdrew from the Minsk Agreements of which it is a signatory, and destroyed the relevant negotiating process at the level of the countries participating in the Normandy format and within the Tripartite Contact Group of the peaceful settlement of the situation in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region of Ukraine. As part of the process of peaceful settlement and legislation of Ukraine, there are defined concepts of temporarily occupied territories as separate areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine, and the boundaries of those temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation of Ukrainian territories, no other formations in the territory of the areas mentioned by Ukraine. Ukraine remains committed to the political and diplomatic path of resolving the international armed conflict. In the development of its previous statements regarding the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine stresses that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and the separate areas of Donetsk and Lugansk regions remain an integral part of the territory of Ukraine, temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation. It states that there are no legal consequences adopted by the Russian Federation and calls for urgent action to be taken to reverse its unlawful decisions aimed at undermining Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as to eliminate the consequences of such actions. It calls on foreign states and international and regional organizations not to recognize the independence of illegal self-proclaimed entities in individual areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and to refrain from any action or steps that could be interpreted as their recognition. It notes the fact that the Russian Federation is an aggressor (a party to the conflict) and its troops have been in and continue to be in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Condemns and puts its responsibility on the Russian Federation for the dramatic deterioration of the security situation, the mass misinformation and propaganda that the Russian Federation has used to create a premeditated case for the adoption of decisions on the recognition of illegal self-proclaimed formations in individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. Supports the official request sent by the President of Ukraine on the basis of Article 6 of the Budapest Memorandum to the UN Security Council Member States, requiring prompt consultations on urgent measures to reduce tension and practical steps to guarantee Ukraine's security. Supports the President's initiative to convene an urgent expanded UN Security Council (Security Summit) meeting with Ukraine to provide real security assurances and immediate action by the UN Security Council to effectively descale and provide real assistance to Ukraine in restoring its sovereignty and territorial integrity within internationally recognized borders. It calls on foreign governments and parliaments, international organisations and their parliamentary assemblies to condemn the said decision of the Russian Federation as illegal. It emphasizes that this decision is part of the long-standing systematic efforts of the Russian Federation aimed at undermining Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity and undermining its statehood. It calls for further severe sectoral, financial and personal sanctions against the Russian Federation and its leadership to halt its armed aggression against Ukraine and prevent further escalation of the security situation in Europe, including the freeze on the launch of the North Stream-2, the exclusion of the Russian Federation from the international interbank information system and the payment of SWIFT and the ban on exports to the Russian Federation of High Technologies, particularly those relating to the Russian military and industrial complex and the energy sector. It calls on foreign governments and parliaments to contribute to strengthening Ukraine's security and to accelerate the provision of comprehensive, including defence assistance aimed at enhancing the ability of the Ukrainian State to respond to the tightening of the security situation by the Russian Federation and to support Ukraine's economy and financial stability. Dear colleagues, I am asking you to support draft Decree 7088. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u72	Thank you, fellows of honor! Thank you for your support. We agreed to discuss it with factions and groups. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I invite you to report to the head of the Committee, Alexander Alexandrovich Network.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u73	You need a committee there to read out your conclusion, maybe there are some technical legal moments. Please. Alexander Alexanderovich, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At its meeting on February 22, 2022, the Committee considered the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the recognition by the Russian Federation of the independence of illegal self-proclaimed entities in the temporarily occupied territories of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputies, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, and the head of the deputy factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In recent weeks, the Russian Federation, using the territory of the Republic of Belarus, has been actively increasing its military presence near the northern and eastern land borders of Ukraine, and these days, with regard to the conduct of naval training, has greatly increased the number of its Armed Forces and the southern maritime borders of our nation. On February 21, 2022, the President of the Russian Federation recognized the independence of illegal self - proclaimed formations in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. By this decision, the Russian Federation has once again grossly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within internationally recognized borders, as well as a series of international and legal acts. That is why it is very important today to consolidate Ukraine’s efforts and the entire international community with a view to joint opposition to the Kremlin’s imperial plans, whose implementation can put the world at real risk of global conflict. The purpose of the draft decision is to approve the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the recognition by the Russian Federation of the independence of self - proclaimed entities in the temporarily occupied territories of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine in order to prevent the escalation of Russia’s security situation around Ukraine. The committee unanimously decided to recommend, approve the relevant decision and application with appropriate technical and legal rights. So, dear colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u75	Thank you. Alexander Alexander, thank you so much. Dear colleagues, once again, I am reminded by consensus that we have decided that we are going to the conclusion of this issue. So we're going to continue the discussion. continue working hours until this issue is dealt with essentially. Dear colleagues, we agreed to ten minutes from factions and groups, such a management arrangement. Please sign up, please sign up. Dear colleagues, you can cut your time, we'll get through. But all the leaders. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, all leaders have expressed the need to speak because the world needs to hear the unity of Parliament. [[Applause]] The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to the Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Golos". National Deputy Sharaskin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u76	God bless you, gentlemen! We're ready to vote right now, but if there's such an agreement, I'd like to say the following. We expected the president of Ukraine to appear today, who would also express his vision and understanding of Parliament. Supreme Council. And I thank my colleagues at the External Relations Committee, the inter-parliamentary cooperation for having quickly all gathered, and we have cleaned up the final address, which is much more severe than where it started. This is one moment. And I'm sure the Supreme Council will vote on it today. Another moment is that stress and panic are not happening anywhere in our country. In all one question: what are we going to do next, and what will be the actions of our country's highest military and political leadership today? You have seen statements and petitions from various regions of Ukraine that can be interpreted in a mixed way. So what are we talking about? About what my brothers and I talked about since we were 14. If we have, not a threat, but an outright aggression, we need to introduce a state of war — even a limited one. But now we have an unprecedented threat from the east, an unprecedented threat from the south and the north of our country, where I remind you that Belarus and Russia signed a bilateral agreement last year on military and educational cooperation. We need to understand how we are ready to respond to these challenges now. So the state of war; that's why the breakup of diplomatic relations with the aggressor country, the breakup of trade and economic and financial relations with the aggressor country. Another question is, how do we know that the Ministry of Economics and Finance is not ready to move on to new rails? I'll remind you the next day, the two main ministries responsible for this, this is the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Economics, you're supposed to be talking about mobilization plans, including the transfer of the economy to military rails. And most importantly, don't forget that only by the army can we not win this war, we can fight against all our fellow citizens. At present, I hope that on Thursday there will be laws regulating the circulation of civilian and firearms. I would like to remind you that we are standing up for the right to self-defence, including with weapons in our hands. That's why our draft law is under definition 1, it's called an alternative, we say "unalternative" or "first," about the right to self-defense. This right last week, for the self-defense of citizens, was supported by the Minister of Defense, and you saw here, he answered these questions in this room. Such a right was upheld by the commander - in - charge of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Our chief first military officials say that, yes, we need to fight against citizens. The answer will follow us. And I really hope we still have a day or two to hold consultations and make the right choice, not to repeat the mistakes of 2014 that were made then. I would like to remind you that now we have the honor and opportunity of having three representatives of the Crimean Tatar people with us in the session room. Few know that by 2014, the Ministry of Internal Affairs had banned them from even granting permits for hunting weapons. Perhaps the situation in the same Crimea would have been different. Our fellow citizens have already proven that we have protected this nation in 2014, we are ready to do so. That's what the veterans say, that's what the volunteers say, and that's what even those who were still schoolchildren are saying, and now young people who are ready to stand up for the fights, and for the resistance movement, and for the Armed Forces, and for the formation of volunteer troops to contain total aggression. Only when the aggressor realizes that we're not going to capitulate that we're not going to wait for an order to give our population, and every village and town, city and area we're going to defend even the cost of our lives, only then there's not enough resources. They have 1.2 million armies, we have more than 10 million citizens who are ready to go out and meet an aggressor. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u77	Heroim Slava! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u78	Mr. Head, I ask you to pass the word to my colleague by the faction of Mikiti Poturayev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u79	Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, with your permission, I would like to share this address with my comrade, our fellow Russian war veteran against Ukraine, National Deputy Jegor Chernev. Here's what I'm going to start with. Russia kills, it's not news to you. Russia is killing the world order, Russia is killing peace, Russia is killing and killing more than 14,000 of our citizens, both civilian and military. Russia kills its own citizens by sending them here without any signs of military death in the Ukrainian steppes, has done so before and is ready to do so again. At 13:25, news came out that Russia officially killed the Minsk Accords. Well, if Russia doesn't want to leave a stone on a stone that's not global, not European, it's their choice of security. He seems crazy, maybe he is. But we have nowhere to go from this neighbor. The only thing we can do now is to keep real peace. Because peace in the back is a guarantee of the strength of the Armed Forces. Of course, we cannot ask the President as Commander-in-Chief, nor the General Staff to publish here in the session room or any other public defense plan for the joy of the enemy. But we all know that the Armed Forces are now commanding military officers that President Zelensky is a determined man who will not retreat. You and I know that all necessary orders are either committed or given in these moments. We must do our duty and duty. You and I were sworn in, sworn in, sworn in, sworn in, sworn in, sworn in, sworn in, sworn in, sworn in, and now it's time to execute this oath. Clearly, we need the support of the whole world, President Greensky said for nothing that sanctions don't work when the bombing started. Clearly, we need more than just support, firm and firm support from Ukraine from our allies, we are convinced that the diplomatic efforts that President Greensky is doing now, which each of us can do, because we join many groups of friendships, delegations and so on, will work as well as our diplomats' efforts. We have to say sanctions today, because tomorrow will be too late. So, colleagues, I urge you to be fully aware of all the risks and dangers of fulfilling our duty under the oaths of the Ukrainian National Deputy, and to let all Ukrainian citizens understand that we, the Ukrainian Parliament, will not retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, yesterday we all saw the Kremlin's chief of staff try to rewrite our story with you and tell the world that Ukraine is guilty of all the sins of both the Russian Federation and Ukraine itself, and in general it is guilty of its existence. And you saw with what aversion, with what hatred he spoke of Ukraine in general. It's not about our progress towards NATO, it's not about Donbass and Luhansk, it's about the survival of Ukraine and our future, and it's being resolved today, and even more, today, the fate of the democratic world is being resolved. It's not exclusively the war of Ukraine with Russia, it's the war of the authoritarian world with the democratic world, and if the democratic world loses it, there will be no Western world in that existence, in the sense that we have today, or the democratic world. I hope our partners understand that because we understand that very clearly. Russia has tried to fight through ultimatums, press Ukraine to abandon our progress in the EU and NATO. But we realize that neutral Ukraine has no chance of surviving with such an aggressive neighbor. We have to go to collective security, and this is our only chance to hold on. When they got the answer "no" from the Western world about our failure to join NATO, they began to push us through the Normandy format, through the Minsk Accords, wanting through the implementation of the Minsk Treaties, as they see it, inside to destabilize the country, inside to take away our sovereignty and independence. And they also got no. So what's going on is happening. It's actually a reaction to what we've been up against. It's a reaction that no one is going to surrender, no one is going to go under the terms of the Russian Federation: no special status in the Constitution, no direct negotiations with terrorists. And of course we will not give up on our progress towards NATO and the EU. That's why what's going on. It is also part of the psychological pressure on us to sit down again at the negotiating table. We will not sit at the table of talks with terrorists, we will not give up our sovereignty and refuse our progress towards NATO and the EU. That is why we need to be strong. And our strongest army today, which has been the most powerful since 1991, when Ukraine gained its independence. Believe me, everyone in combat today is ready, the army is ready for any developments. And the population is ready, our people are ready. According to recent reports, more than 60 percent of the adult population is ready to defend our country with weapons. So absolutely without panic, we'll be preparing, we're ready for any scenario, but we're counting exclusively on our forces and our partners. Today, we see partial sanctions have begun to be introduced. I think sanctions are one of the most effective tools that can keep Russia from further escalating this situation. But at the same time, Russia needs to understand that we have here a fighting army with the latest weapons, and so do we. I want to say again that we are ready for any scenario. And we're going to vote in favour of this statement absolutely clear, absolutely correct. Let us, however, show unity in this room at least. [[Applause]] I hope all factions have one position today. We will support this statement. We stay strong, we hope for ours. Let us do so, not even hope, but believe in our Armed Forces, our people and the glory of Ukraine! We're gonna win!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u82	Heroic glory. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullaiovich. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u83	Dear Ukrainians, eight years ago Putin began aggression against Ukraine: he first annexed Crimea, then occupied much of the Ukrainian Donbas. And it was obvious at that time that Putin and his chambermaids were not only our Simferopolis, Sevastopol, Donetsk, and Lugansk, but the whole of Ukraine. Because the very idea of an independent, strong, European, civilized, democratic country of this autocrat and tyrant and dictator is alien to him. In fact, yesterday during his fascist, hateful, pseudo-historic talk, Putin denied the very idea of the sovereignty of our nation, our right to territorial integrity, our statehood. The only thing that doesn't take into account this bunker is that all of us can actually be opponents, have very different views, but we're the only ones in each other, protecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, and that we have dignity and patriotism. Putin accidentally began a new stage of aggression against our country in the festival for us on the days when we mourn the slain on Maidan the Heroes of Heaven. Because the very concept of the Dignity Revolution, which once again emphasized that we are an independent, sovereign state that has the right to our external political choice, is not just Putin, not just his gang, but, unfortunately, Russia. I want to say that this country, which is our neighbor, has deteriorated over the past 20 years to such an extent that today not only Putin and his gang are responsible for the blood and tears of the Ukrainians, but every Russian who voted for Putin, who voted for this State that chose these senators and who today did not take part in the protest against war. You're not our brothers. And when all these things yesterday: Shaigas, Matvienka, and others ask what we did wrong in Ukraine, and you killed Ukrainian children, you killed dozens of Ukrainian civilians and soldiers! You wounded tens of thousands of Ukrainians, you stole a house in half a million Ukrainians. You're trying to take the future to a totally democratic, peaceful, civilized country. And burn in hell! But really, why were they so brave yesterday when they discussed their bloodthirsty plans? But because they rightly point out, doing parallels from 2008 and 14 years old, that the world, unfortunately, gave them the opportunity to do so. They were brave enough to say that for some time, we had a blockade there, we blocked it, we were in isolation, but then everybody drove to the big Russia, because the whole world needed our energy supply, and they used it. So today we have to draw conclusions with you from 2014, and the whole world has to conclude that. The first is our unity. And we hope that today President Zelensky will ask the faction leaders to finally discuss together how to act in this extraordinary situation, when the state faces the threat of its destruction for the first time since the 14th year. The second is the reinforcement of the Ukrainian army. You're asking why we're not voting on this ruling right now? But because after that we have the same unanimous constitutional majority vote in favour of the Ukrainian army. And there has to be consensus. This is our main consensus. And we as European Solidarity gave you these proposals four months ago. If we don't give a hand today to help our national idea, to strengthen the Ukrainian army, there will be no Ukraine. What a mistake that is! Third. We have to unite today to call on the world to impose real sanctions against the aggressor country, not something against non-existent LNRs and DNRs, because absolutely worthless history, it's the Kremlin puppet, it's against Russia. To impose sanctions against North Stream 2, this political project must be blocked. Enter SWIFT sanctions, ban Russian Federation from accessing financial markets and technology markets, and prevent their GDP from developing further. Our words today are love, support for the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. We are aware of the deadly dangers that lie ahead of the collision line today. And it's obvious that both our army and our support with you today should be with them. Colleagues, and in fact, we have to say very clearly that, according to the Geneva Convention of 49, all responsibility for the humanitarian, security, social situation, economics in the occupied areas of Donbassy, Donetsk and Lugansk occupied by the Russian Federation temporarily, is borne by the aggressor country and the occupying country. Keep going. We also call on President Zelensky to make an immediate appeal to all international courts, because this Putin gang, everyone who voted in favour of dismembering Ukraine, has to be responsible for violating international law under all international laws, but the Attorney General of Ukraine has to immediately file criminal cases against every bastard who voted in favour of dismembering Ukraine. And you and I, colleagues, this week that you've been sitting here and voting, it's not clear that we should have gone to the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to impose these sanctions on anyone who pressed this button, turning to Putin for dismemberment of Ukraine. Next. We call upon our partners, whom we are certainly grateful that you have concluded since the 14th year, put your deep concern aside, and for today we have given Ukraine weapons, for today we have given Ukraine technology, for today we have changed your information policy. And indeed, in all the world's media you've been teaching these Kremlin plans, which have proved to be a reality, not a panic. We are not only thanking you, but asking you to give the VAT to Ukraine. You can't stop Putin from dying, it's already shown in 2008, it showed in 2014, it only understands the language of unity, the language of power, the language of the world. And today there is no country in the European Union that is as pro-European as Ukraine. This was led by the Dignity Revolution, which led to our eight-year war with you for civilization and for our values and principles. Putin is fighting, indeed, not from. He is fighting with Ukraine because our principles, our way of life: freedom of speech, democracy, the fight against corruption, respect for human rights. And if we want Putin to come here tomorrow, you and I have to destroy it as, unfortunately, it's been done here all three years, as the opposition has been declining here, as we've been here again in the dark of the word. So once again, I urge you, today we have to draw conclusions from our mistakes in these last years, correct them. If we call on the world to impose sanctions against Russia, we have to give up the blood trade first. We propose that in this package of bills that are now to be passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the rejection of all energy supplies in the Russian Federation, coal stolen from the mines of the occupied Donbas, electricity, bitumen, all that then finances the army of the killer country. It's actually going to be our right package and right for the world. How can we demand sanctions and not trade with the Russian Federation from the world if we turn it back and do it. And what I'm saying is once again is that our political power, no matter what our relationship with the ruling party and the President in the context of the aggression of the Russian Federation, is not under a party flag but under the flag of Ukraine. We will do everything we can to strengthen the Ukrainian army that we are proud of, and we thank every man and every woman who signed the contract today in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and protects Ukraine. You're heroes, thank you! Glory to Ukraine! And glory to everyone who protects our country!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u84	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we think that in order for the world to hear us and be heard by the Ukrainians, we can speak briefly, the main message of the matter. [[Applause]] Not in the image of our colleagues will be told, set the speaker of Parliament time. And in short, I want to say that Parliament should speak with one voice, that Parliament should share responsibility, including first and foremost with the President as our Supreme Commander. We thank the Speaker of Parliament, who, at the request of today and at the request of the leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups, has approached the President and the President has responded and is meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups today at 7 p.m. We want to talk about what we are and the world is in a completely different security situation that happened after 45 or after 91 or after 97, who counts, but it's completely different. We, Ukraine, are almost in the hot phase of war, the world is in the hot phase of the cold war. And yesterday's speech by the President of the Russian Federation is a challenge to the entire world, to all the peoples of the former Soviet Union: to Georgians, to Belarusians, to Uzbeks, to Azerbaijanis, to Moldovans, to Lithuanians, to Latvians, to Estonians. Since the borders of their Russian President after this performance yesterday can also review the situation for 1913, he has already begun to deny it. We learned from his mouth that Ukraine is on a special account. But we want to remind you that having Russian cities is the city of Kiev. And no Ukrainian today raises the issue of viewing any borders outside his territory. Russia came out of the form of the Minsk Accords in a one-sided way, and in fact it itself notes it, and we find an act of aggression in this statement by the Ukrainian Parliament. We recognize the fact that the Russian Federation is a party to the conflict and its troops have been on temporarily occupied Ukrainian lands all this time. We emphasize the terrorist nature of so-called LNRs and DNRs, and others cannot really be. We support the convening, the immediate convening of the UN Security Council, the immediate renewal of the EU's composition to monitor the situation on the line of delimitation. And we certainly can't close the ground for Normandy negotiations, the Normandy Quartet, including the Tripartite Contact Group. But the world has to understand, if there's no hard reaction from the outside, they'll move on, and it's not just Ukraine. If the President decides to establish a military state in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas, the Parliament is bound to support him without delay. This includes a possible breakup of diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation or the introduction of a visa regime with Russia. The sanctions against the members of the State Word and the Federation Council that ratified these agreements today, which voted in favour of the recognition of the ORDLO, are sectoral sanctions, as already discussed by colleagues, personal sanctions, against the North Stream, 2nd, the oil and gas embargo. And thank you, Mr. Scholtz, who today announced the actual cessation of the North Stream 2 certificate. And, of course, it's the help of the Ukrainian army. Because there's no greater priority than to support our defenders today, they're on the front line, they're zero kilometers from the aggressor. Friends, in the last few days, before we hand over to our colleague who just came from his constituency, which is in Donetsk, I want to say and ask you to honor a moment of silence for a few people. The first is our heroes of the warriors who died on the line of disengagement. And today, on this sad day for Ukraine, the great Ukrainian sixtie, who in the early 1960s with his work "Internationalism or Russianization?"", explained in all of the world that we are Ukrainians, that we are not Russia, and we will never be Russia," said John Duba, the Hero of Ukraine. Let him rest with God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u86	I won't spend much time either. In fact, I came from the Donetsk region last night. You know, I tried to give you greetings in the morning, and the greetings must have been in the paws, from people who live constantly in the territory of Donetsky, Luhansk district on the collision line. It seemed that the Ukrainian Parliament was ready to do everything, but it was so impressive that it wasn’t. I've even tried to tell many MPs what's going on. And I want to tell you all, and for 8 years, I've been bringing one single position from this rostrum: He didn't need the Crimea, he doesn't need Donetsk and Lugansk, he needs all of Ukraine, and it's just technology. He took our territory in pieces, and yesterday he officially introduced troops into the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk. It's absolutely logical that today there should have been both the President's statement and the position of our Ukrainian Parliament. Of course, I was convinced that after the shootings that we had seen in three days, what eight years were going on there, that at least military conditions would be introduced in the territory of Donetsk, Lugansk and Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Clearly, we must do so. We have to show that we're not just raising this question, but we understand what's going on. People only want one, they say, eight years from now, as between earth and heaven, you can't be, you can't be, you can't be half pregnant, or if it's a war, so call it a war, or if we have peace, then take it and make an agreement. We all see that we have a war. Yes, perhaps it is time to call things by their very names. In fact, yesterday, I'm sure that many of us have seen this sick speech by the President of the Russian Federation, he's been mentioning Ukrainian history for a very long time. And perhaps I would like to add one single example today, perhaps one single mistake in Ukrainian history, when Kiev was founded in the fifth century, we made a mistake: we sent the grandson of the prince of Kiev 800 years later that he came to these swamps and founded this Moscow, this Moscow and then this invasion, which for how many years does it not allow our independent Ukraine to develop, let's not forget that. [[Applause]] Ukraine had been established long before, and literacy had gone from here. And really, Kiev is the mother of Russian cities. Yeah, all the cities we have in fact are Ukrainian, the only thing that Russia's ever turned history upside down. Let's not just do this, let's show an example of the unification of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian authorities, to show the world that we're not exactly going to give up. The time has come when everyone in our country, with all due respect for everyone, has come to realize that war is not just in Crimea, it is not only in the Donetsk or Lugansk region, it is eight years of war in Ukraine. And every citizen of Ukraine, regardless of where he lives, what he does, he participates in survival against this invasion. In each of our fronts: in the diplomats, we thank them, in the military front, we have our own front, and in every Ukrainian citizen who just basically goes to work, pays taxes, basically keeps this state symbol in his hands and heart, does it in order to win. So, colleagues, friends, we vote unanimously. All factions today must vote and support all initiatives on strengthening both the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian society. We're gonna win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u87	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u88	Man, stop! Listen to the blood flow for a few seconds. This is the blood of your forefathers, this is the blood of your grandfathers, this is the blood of your parents and your brothers. Listen to the blood of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. Listen to the blood of our defenders in eastern Ukraine. This blood is shed only because, starting with our great-grandfather, father and mother, we wanted, we want and will claim the Kremlin that we are not a province, we are Ukraine, Ukraine. To say this word this second from this high rostrum, rivers of blood were poured out of our relatives. So today, when the whole world sees the direct steps and actions of the Kremlin, when the whole world sees real aggression, when the Kremlin wants to destroy our statehood with you, destroy Ukraine, we -- these people who are worthy by the Ukrainian people right now in this room -- have to take a historic step in protecting the sovereignty, statehood of Ukraine, breaking diplomatic ties with Russia, entering clearly strong borders, visa regimes, and explicitly closing this issue, which has been standing for more than a year. It's an important historical decision and you're here to make it. You should point out that we are clearly behind the political, diplomatic, settlement of the situation in the east of our country. However, as a humble majorityist visiting the military range, I can assure you, all Ukrainians, who have been preparing for us for more than one year of steel, a strong modern armed, heavily spirited, Ukrainian army, and we are safe today in our workplace, in all parts of our country. We Ukrainians are a smart, strong, primordial nation, and we will also win this difficult fight. Maintain, of course, common sense. Today we are also addressing our international partners in order to ask them not only to ensure the safety of their inhabitants and to bring diplomats out of Kiev to Lviv, but to sleep in the night to Poland, to show real friendship, to help us in this situation with both weapons and those who know how to deal with them, who teach and teach our defenders and defenders the right way to defend Ukraine. I call on everyone to build Ukraine in their workplace, and you, the electorate, to build Ukraine with today's historic decision, which will work with certainty for the benefit of the Ukrainian national identity and our people, and the development of our country, whose proud name is Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u89	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Skorik Mikola Leonidovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u90	It is a pleasure to see unity and mutual respect in this session room today. Perhaps any meeting of the Supreme Council should be held in this key. Whatever you want to talk about. I think there's no man in this room, I'm sure there's no man to question the territorial integrity of our state. Donetsk is Ukraine, Lugansk is Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is Ukraine. But when I heard the performances of some deputies today, and above all, I was impressed by the presentation by the majority, the majority. When a man in the Supreme Council stands talking about the fact that the Minsk Accords weren't going to do what we were forced to do, we were forced to do it, and we stood up, and it's because we stood up, it's very good that we're so strong, so powerful and so on. Dear colleagues, I understand all the hurrah patriotic calls and I understand that our point of view is different with you, but listen to me. When there was a real way in the country to really regain territorial integrity in the Luhansk region, the Donetsk region, and this was determined by the Minsk Treaties, approved by the United Nations Security Council, we must recognize that we did not take advantage of this path with you. We need to understand that in this situation in which we are now in Ukraine, unfortunately, and this has been discussed in many ways from this rostrum, we have lost our subjectivity in many ways. When I heard our President's speech at the Munich Conference, I liked the many thesis he gave on the part that the President was going to lower the level of external government. And in the work of our committee as early as Monday, I was surprised to see that such steps really, there were attempts to take such steps in the process of removing people who had left Ukraine from the number of foreign supervisory councils. And I hope that this will not be the only step in restoring our subjects to the outer and inner arena. Our goal with you is to make our country stronger, more powerful, so that people can live in it better. Today, people on both sides of the line of separation are our citizens, citizens of Ukraine, who are suffering today without light, without water, under shells for the eighth year. And unfortunately, colleagues, we have to admit with you that virtually nothing has been done to remedy this situation. No hurrah-patriotic statements, any of the rest of the world won't change that. We need to understand that we really have a lot of different interests with our neighbors, not just with the Russian Federation. We need to understand that a strong, powerful Ukraine needs no one but itself, and we need to protect our power, our independence and our power and develop it. I'm not going to talk about the economy right now, I realize it's a completely different mood, but at least predict a little bit. If we stay with you in this mode for a few more months, what happens to our economy, what happens to our budget? How are we going to build our gas relations when from this rostrum on Friday, unfortunately, I haven't been able to ask this question to the Prime Minister, when the Prime Minister is very proud that we've agreed with Hungary that we're going to buy gas from her. So it's Russian gas. That's what Prime Minister Orban has agreed with the Russian Federation to give extra volume, it's where Hungary earns money, and we're going to buy it with you. I think the only way is to negotiate. I think we have an opportunity to negotiate. We have to involve our international partners: the United States, Germany, France. We have to sit down for direct negotiations with the Russian Federation, without this situation being rectified, no matter how much we talk about how strong we are, how powerful we are, how united we are. So we terrorize each other with an invasion, so we say he'll be gone, then we see what's going on in Donetsk and Lugansk. Once again, Donetsk is Ukraine, Lugansk is Ukraine, but in order to bring them back to our jurisdiction, we have to take concrete steps. And these steps are not military at all, these steps are not patriotic hurrah, they have to be pragmatic. And if such steps are taken by the President of Ukraine, we will support him in this. Unfortunately, we don't see them yet. I want to finish part of my speech because I have a colleague, Mr. Koltunovich, who also has to say a few words, a slogan that has become forgotten. Long live the free, strong and powerful Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Well, as you know, according to common and established tradition, I tend to act essentially. I'm familiar with the ruling. Well, unfortunately, my colleague asked me, my colleague Skork gave a tone to the faction: So we're going to make the right decision. Well, you can get to know this content that's either pictured or written and so on. We're voting on it today. It's quite similar to the one we voted on last week's draft ruling where we made similar statements. And so on and so forth. We've just voted it out, we've supported it, the whole room, and so on. What's next? What clear steps are we taking regarding the reintegration of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions? This is about isolated areas of Donetsk and Luhansk, which are uncontrollable. I'm stressing, not L/DNR, but Donetsk and Lugansk, because this is Ukraine, and that's what my colleague Skork said. So from this point of view, I want to go back and pay attention to what has been said, for example, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who today, in making a statement, says and calls for a peaceful settlement of the situation around Ukraine in accordance with the Minsk Accords approved by the UN. I would like to remind you that even President Zelensky, in December 2019, signed the Paris Communiqué, including by implementing the provisions of the separate provisions of the Minsk Treaties. If you move in a different direction today, it's not about this decision, it's about clear, specific draft laws, draft regulations that are supposed to form the basis of that road map for the reintegration of Donbas into Ukraine. These should be absolutely pragmatic and specific regulations, and more specifically draft laws. If we continue to insist, the President will be forced to implement the Minsk Accords, he has to come out and clearly say that there is paragraph 4, there is paragraph 5, there is paragraph 8 and 9, there is paragraph 11, which is to be adopted by the Supreme Council. It has to cancel the economic blockade, it has to make a decision there or an election law, amnesty, special status. Everything that he has promised to Chancellor Scholtz, who even we have in Kiev at the briefing, says that President Zelensky is ready to introduce to the Supreme Council specific laws on special status and on the special order of local self-government in the areas of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. This is an application content that we can vote for, and our faction will support such things. Today, I'm going to repeat to you, regardless of what the draft regulations are and what's written there, it won't have an active mechanism as such, what we've been doing for years to come. Next, next moment. What our colleagues said about breaking up diplomatic, trade and economic ties. I'm not going for diplomatic, I'm going for economics. Bilateral circulation last year is $9.5 billion, plus 6.1 we import goods, plus revenue from gas transit, is revenue from oil transit. I understand why Mineconomy is against. So when you take, for example, an embargo on food or economic sanctions, think about the first thing that will hit Ukraine's economy. The next point is about implementing the legislative initiatives we've been making, and since 2019, when we went to the elections, we had something to offer. We have proposed appropriate decisions, an appropriate peace-plan concept for settling the situation in Donbas, which was and is sponsored by Victor Medvedchuk. It is based on changes to the Constitution, this is the Law on the Economic, Free Economic Zone at Donbassa, a number of other legislative initiatives. So I still insist that when we come with you tomorrow in full plenary mode so that we don't engage in, gently speaking, secondary draft laws, we vote on those legislations that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u92	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. And the final speech, but before Julia Volodymyrna is going to keep the procedure completely clean, we agreed that we will continue, but I continue as chairman for 15 minutes, but until this issue is resolved, in fact, so that there are no questions about compliance with the Rules and Procedures. Julia Volodymyrna. Then we vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, 21-22 February for Ukraine is hard data, you know, it's sacral dates for us. On these dates our Heavenly 100th and Maidan Dignity won the struggle for freedom, for the European Ukraine, for the right of Ukrainians to live happily. Unfortunately, these days were chosen to invade the Russian army against the occupied Donbas, uncompromising. We were simply given to know once again that they did not want to accept the Ukrainians' desire for freedom, for dignity, for the right to live and be part of the European community, for the right to return home to European values. We were told by this invasion that our freedom was not in our hands, in the hands of the invaders. But I am convinced that we, the Ukrainian nation, will be able to prove otherwise. We will prove that we are able, our generation, the Ukrainian entire team can protect both the borders of Ukraine and our present, and our future, and our European choice, the happiness of our children and our families. But in order to protect ourselves, our country, our loved ones, the people of Ukraine need, as we have agreed, to speak honestly to each other about the challenges that have arisen. We all know that 99 percent of the experts, politicians, politicians, our foreign friends didn't believe in what might happen to Ukraine, we didn't believe they could bring troops here, we didn't believe they could go to war with us. Now the situation is happening, they're out of the Minsk Accords, and they're now in the army. What's next? And I want us to be honest with ourselves and the country to say this: now, at these moments, the aggressors have said that they believe that the LNR, DNR, are in the boundaries that these two terrorist creatures recognized in 2014. Do you know what that is? I want to tell you what this is -- it means that they will recognize borders within the boundaries of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. This means that they continue to pave the way for war. And we can't stop talking about it, not being aware of it, not being able to report on what we have to do with you. This means that there may be a situation where an ultimatum will be declared in the coming hours or in the coming days and a certain time when Ukrainian troops must leave the territory they consider to be their own. But I am convinced that this will not happen that the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people will defend every centimeter of their land, every centimeter of our native Ukraine, and that we will not allow under any circumstances to come and take Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities. But in order to be strong, as a peace-loving state, we are a peace-loving state, we have taken no step with weapons or aggression against the territory of other neighbouring countries, and we will never do so. We are a peace-loving state and we will do our best to pursue a political and diplomatic path, but if we have to defend the borders of Ukraine, Ukraine will do so with all its strength and loyalty to its people, to its country, and I am convinced of that. But given this situation, as they see the borders in which they recognized LNR, DNR, we have to be honest with ourselves that without a military condition in that part of the territory that they claim to be today, we will not be able to move on. And that's why I have in my hands the Law of Ukraine on the Legal Regime of War, and here article 1 clearly states that in this situation, when an invasion or even a threat of invasion occurs, the state of war is mandatory. Because this protects people in areas where aggression is directed and protects the constitutional system of Ukraine. Next. We now have another important question with you: for the world's societies, for the democratic civilized countries now, what is happening in Ukraine is a historic test of whether the world lives within the limits of the values they have declared, whether international organizations, the United Nations Organization, the OSCE, are working today within those declarations and international instruments that are signed. Now is the moment of truth and we, Ukrainians, and first of all Parliament, must raise all international co-operation to defend Ukraine. This means that we must turn to the United Nations and be strictly called upon to act immediately under the organization’s statute. For example, rule 5 of the Radbeg Rules stipulates that in such situations Radrez must meet immediately in the territory of the country where there are conflicts. Therefore, the next appeal that Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, must make is to the United Nations, to the Secretary-General, who is required in the territory of Ukraine in Kiev to hold Radbez and to make all the decisions that the United Nations is now obliged to make. I also want to say that the OSCE is a secure structure for Europe. If we don't turn now, and we don't demand a clear order of action, it's going to mean that we're toothless and aimless. Our task now as Ukraine is to appeal to the United Nations International Court of Justice to begin the process of redressing the moral and material losses Ukraine has suffered from the military aggression of the Russian Federation, and that is trillions. And what this isn't started yet is it's talking about playing the flooring game. We need to do everything with you to get our Budapest Memorandum guarantors involved in a dialogue with Ukraine on the basis of the demands of the Ukrainian Parliament, and to do what we need to do in such a situation -- help Ukraine create an army that can carry out an enemy restraint strategy. You and I are now left with only the Ukrainian army and the courageous Ukrainian society. And now to strengthen them is our sacred cause. Now there are MPs in all of the practical regions. What did Fatherland do? And we ask that all MPs can do that. We must take control in our territories of all the complete preparation of the terror and become essentially the leaders of this training. We can, as Fatherland has done, begin the process of our integration, of all our organizational structures into the Ukrainian territorial defence system. Besides, there's a budget dispute today, so stop making policy on these changes to the budget. We have with you 22 articles of the "Transitional Regulations" of the budget, which clearly states that the requirements of the state of war open up an open line. It is not for Parliament to determine how much it takes to defend, but for the defence needs, and we must make such a decision with you on the need for defence and on the decision of the government. All the other articles just stop, we can't get together here for every "whom" required by the budget. And I want to say the last. If Ukraine, we will all be united together, the only, intellectual, organized, we will act as a Swiss watch in just minutes, when we hold our freedom, honor, pride at the highest level, Ukraine is invincible and no enemy here will pass, and we will be strong. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u94	Heroim Slava! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote and the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, this is a truly historic time. Dear colleagues, I'm voting again. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Indeed, historical times, historical decisions, and history place responsibility on us for this decision. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. I propose to the committee to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the recognition by the Russian Federation of the independence of self-proclaimed formations in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk areas of Ukraine (project registration number 7088). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:07:03]] For 336 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Before we're finished, one more minute out of the procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, that's it! Or we agreed on one, because we're running out of time. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, but no votes. Just one minute out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u95	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to thank once again each of the 254 Ukrainian national deputies who today supported the inclusion in the agenda of the 50 billion military funding bill. Also taking into account the consultations under the chairmanship of the Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament on the financing of the current additional Ukrainian army, bearing in mind that the Budget Committee is ready for an urgent meeting, Ruslan Alexiyovich, we ask you to consider holding an extraordinary meeting this evening so that the budget bill on the financing of the army can be adopted in general today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-22-m0.u96	Arthur Volodymyrovich, I thank you for this proposal, but we agreed that a decision would be made first, and then this decision would be approved by the committee, and then after that, the procedure for extraordinary meetings, known to all, we can organize it. But once again, today at 19:00, the President of Ukraine, along with representatives of the forces, invites representatives of factions and groups to the meeting. Dear colleagues, thank you. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
