ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u1	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the national deputies into the hall. I think in a few minutes we'll start our session. Dear colleagues, I'd like the National Deputies to take their seats. Good evening, fellow MPs! Good evening, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In connection with the decision taken by the President of Ukraine to introduce a state of emergency in certain regions of Ukraine and in accordance with part three of article 83, paragraph 31, of the first article of article 85 of the Ukrainian Constitution, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep it up until the end of the registration. Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you see, someone might have a bad memory. People's deputies please register. [[21:25:30.]] There are 327 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 21 of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5, 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of states of emergency, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 February a draft Ukrainian law (registration number 7108) approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in certain regions of Ukraine. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the issue of the approval of the President of Ukraine's decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in Ukraine or in certain areas thereof shall be considered by the Supreme Council without voting on its inclusion in the agenda by the procedure for the first reading and adoption of the law as a whole. Such a question may be brought up for consideration by the Supreme Council without prior committee preparation, but the committees have made such preparations. In accordance with the Rules, this is a matter of order: the report of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, up to 7 minutes, up to 7 minutes, can be reported by Alexy Mečeslavovich. Then the report from the profile committee, up to 5 minutes, can be less. And then we're going to propose statements from the MP factions and groups -- two minutes, just from the factions that they want, we agreed. There won't be many factions like that, so I think we are. And then we move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, do we accept such regulations? Is there no one to deny it? So, honourable national MPs, let's move on to the question. The report is given to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Alexia Mechaslavovich Danilov. Please, Alexy Mechaslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, there was today a meeting of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine under the chairmanship of the President of Ukraine, which addressed one issue: the introduction of a state of emergency in Ukraine. The meeting heard a report from the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the heads of the intelligence community, the foreign service. The information provided was discussed in detail on the risks and threats to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. In this regard, the main challenge of our security was and is, and remains Russia's aggressive policy in relation to our country. On February 21, 2022, the leadership of the Russian Federation recognized the independence of self-proclaimed L/DNRs and decided to introduce into the temporarily occupied territories of the Donetsk and Lugansk districts of the Russian Federation Armed Forces. Such actions are a continuation of the Russian Federation’s policy of escalating armed aggression against our country, imposing separatism, provoking interfaith, interfaith conflicts, mass unrest that threatens the safety, life and health of our citizens, national sovereignty, constitutional order, and the territorial integrity of our country. The subversive activities of the special services of the Russian Federation, supported by the activities of separatist forces, criminal and illegal military groups in the occupied areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, have become violent and threaten to spread to other regions of our country. With a view to normalizing the situation in the State, protecting and protecting the state border, combating crime, maintaining public security and order, creating conditions for the proper functioning of the authorities of the State, local self-government and other civil society institutions, preventing attempts to seize state authority and changing the constitutional authority of Ukraine through violence, in accordance with paragraphs 5 and 6 of the second part of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of the state of emergency, the Security and Defence Council adopted an appropriate decision. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support this decision. We held back quite a long time from making such decisions to bring about a state of emergency in one area or another. Today the situation has become more complicated; it is not simple. We're not going to hide anything from you, we need this regime, and we're going to suggest that it be introduced throughout our country, except for Donetsk and Lugansk. In Donetsk and Luhansk regions, there is another regime that relates to our conduct. The situation, once again, is not easy, but it is completely controlled. According to all our intelligence partners, our intelligence data, our analysts' data, without internal destabilisation in our country, it's impossible to capture our country. The question of internal destabilization for the Russian Federation is question number one. In order to prevent these events, we invite the President to introduce. The Security Council has spoken on this issue, and the President has supported it, and I very much ask you to support the proposal made by the President of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u3	Thank you, Alexy Mechaslavovich. We thank Mr. Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. Alexei Mechaslavovich. Thank you for the report. We agreed that we do not ask questions because we have spent so much time in discussions today. Honourable National Deputies, the chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, is invited to the floor for the report. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u4	Honorary Presidium, Honorary Fellows, in accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on February 23, 2022, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Approval of the Presidential Decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in certain regions of Ukraine (registration No. 7108, completed), submitted by the President of Ukraine. The purpose of the project is to approve the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine and part of the first article 5 of the Law on the Legal regime of states of emergency, Presidential Decree No. 63/2022 of 23 February 2022 on the introduction of a state of emergency in certain regions of Ukraine. The committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the review of the draft law to adopt it as a basis and as a whole by approving the decision of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u5	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that we are allowing the opportunity to speak to those MP factions and groups that have desires. Please register with the respective MPs and groups in two minutes. Please, Your Honor. The word is given to the people's deputy Kačna, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Alexander Stalinoenevich, please. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, two minutes. You see, everyone wanted to come out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u6	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the introduction of a state of emergency has some negative effects on, let's say, macroeconomic and monetary levels, you've already seen it in exchange today. I'll tell you what the chips and the main points are. The first is the outflow of foreign direct investment. One second. There's another point about the decline and devaluation of the national monetary unit. We have a difficult situation today, and so the National Bank, listen, please, the National Bank will need to keep the bracelet. And from this point of view, what I'm calling your attention to is, how are we going to now keep the bracelet on the inside of the country, which is the national scale and the national economy? First. The National Bank has no reserve for intervention of the National Monetary Unit. This requires the formation of a reserve fund that will now recapitalize and support the national monetary unit. One second. We need to take into account the inflationary risks that today too will be. Listen carefully, I'm just saying that it's important to take into account these panic moods for the national economy. These are important things of a macroeconomic and monetary nature, so it's important. What should be done today, for example, by the National Bank of Ukraine. This is the second moment. And the last. There are also questions about the execution of contracts under separate contracts. We also have to take this into account in order to prevent galloping inflation from covering the country today. So from this point of view, inflationary, devaluation, other risks need to be taken into account. That's what this is about, and why I'm taking the word today, so that all of those things, so that the dollar of 31 bracelets, the other ones, we can take them down now and count them down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u7	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Konstankevitch Irina Miroslavovni, the MP's Party for the Future. Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u8	My fellow Members, I think our "For the Future Party" MPs think that every day that the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian state are going through today is a beautiful and historic day for the preservation of Ukrainian sovereignty. You know, I think soon, in a couple of years, those people who were involved in today's decision that we're going to make today, when they're going to describe in their memories all the periphery that this decision worked out. But I'm more than convinced that this decision today is saying that we're definitely not the Russian State Duma and that we've been discussing the President's decree for so long, and we're definitely not the State Duma, which in two or three minutes is voting how quickly we need to bring troops outside another state into another state. What's more, we can discuss, we can convince, and we can respond in solidarity to the fornication that we hear from a separate political faction, and we show the consolidation of the Ukrainian Parliament in front of the enemy. So, my friends, I want to say that I hope that each of us here hopes that the President, as Commander-in-Chief, that the government, the National Bank, all the authorities today know what to do, both in the defence part and in the energy part and in the economy part and in part of all other areas of life. We need to ensure confidence, peace in the state, and victory tomorrow. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u9	Heroic glory! Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u10	We, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are here today to approve the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in Ukraine. Ukraine has tried all diplomatic ways, but Russia’s aggression is on the rise, and our borders have an enemy army. On our side, there is a strong, strong Ukrainian army that we believe in. But the situation is complicated, and this means that a state of emergency needs to be put in place immediately. By introducing a state of emergency, we are working to advance the ideas of the Kremlin, whose actions are aimed at destabilizing the situation inside our country. This is primarily what we do to mobilize local authorities, government authorities, and power structures to prevent possible provocations within our country, so as to reduce panic among the population of Ukraine. A state of emergency is to be prepared for possible provocations by terrorist Russian groups that may be inside our country. A state of emergency is to clearly determine the responsibilities of local authorities, statesmen, citizens, and power structures. I am convinced that the introduction of a state of emergency will not interfere with the life and health of law - abiding citizens. The Ukrainians have nothing to worry about, we have a strong army, we need to maintain reasonableness and not believe fairies in social networks. Trust official sources of information. We are a strong nation. Glory to Ukraine! Praise the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u11	Heroim Slava! The word is given to the National Deputy Michael Zabrodsky, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u12	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We are a proud and loving nation that has not lived for the first year in a completely different social and political reality, which is very difficult to understand, especially in Moscow. We've done a lot of things with you today, and I'm sure we'll do more in a few minutes. And finally, those restrictions and the sacrifices that we might have to make to many of us and millions of our fellow countrymen, it's not that high a price. And how serious this is compared to what is at risk to those who are now in the east of our country and across other borders in other strategic directions. But we need to be clear: we are with you only at the beginning of our journey, we still have something to work on, and what to do to defend this country. It's the law's turn. A new edition of the National Resistance Act, on the line of new proposals for increased military funding, lined up for the individual categories present here, the Cooperation Act, which we will also consider. Recently, I returned from the ship, literally last night. How long could you drive in 72 hours? Well, more than half the collision line. There's only one question for all the military. And it's not just armor, it's not just helmets, it's not just ammunition, it's food, it's fuel. They care about the monolith they have left in the back. And we're here to reflect this monolith. We are the only force that needs to consolidate society and think not about political preferences, but about protecting our country. [[Applause]] I propose that we show those of them who may be watching us right now, stand up and welcome to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations that defend our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u13	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Stefanishni Olga Anatoliyevni. Samantha Bobrowski, please, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u14	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians, we are bringing the state into a state of total security, because as a country that is fighting war for its country in the eighth year, we know what it is at a critical time to be united, mobilized, and clearly understand that each one of us has to do so, and is obliged to do so. I want to point out that the introduction of state of emergency does not mean the introduction of state of war, it's definitely different things. And today the introduction of a state of emergency is so that decisions can be made quickly and quickly on the ground so that there is no panic and headquarters in your areas are already open and running. But clearly, no panic, no chaos, no misinformation, no disorganization, because that's the weapon that the Russian Federation is now using quickly on all possible international, and our internals primarily, printing thousands of fairy tales that their citizens no longer believe in. I'm asking everyone here to follow and reassure your voters in their seats and say that citizens' rights will be as secure as possible and that they will not bother business or economy. This is so that the authorities can make these decisions quickly and quickly. And most important. Today is the time, honourable Ukrainians, to prepare and stand by themselves and remember that this is our war for our land and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u15	The word is given to the National MP Greenchuk Oksani Anatolovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Buzanski Maksim Arkadyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u16	Dear Ukrainians, when adults are scared, feel children, they are afraid too. So don’t be afraid of anything. Take care of your children. We are now voting for the introduction of a state of emergency throughout our country. I would like to emphasize once again that all the prohibitions that contain this condition will be imposed only if necessary. Only if there's a situation like this. And if not, the lives of every Ukrainian will not change. We've been voting for 30 days, and I'm asking everyone, without exception, to support this decision. This is our position, we have to demonstrate that we take full responsibility for what is happening in the country in such critical times. I suggest we stop looking for enemies among us, we all represent our constituents here, our citizens. I propose spending less time on empty political slogans and more time on numbers, mathematics. Let's speak the numeral language, because we have a very critical time. Please, everyone, without exception, support the introduction of a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u17	The word is given to the national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Head. In the last few days, I've been talking to the military a lot more than I normally do. Adults are not afraid, adults are ready to protect our country, adults are willing to do everything they can to ensure that other adults and our children are fully protected. The Fatherland faction will unmistakably and unmistakably support the President's decree on the establishment of a state of emergency. I would like to say that this decree is very and very balanced. On the one hand, it allows the authorities of the state, local self-government authorities to react quickly in short periods of time to possible provocations, but on the other hand, the decree does not affect or restrict key fundamental human rights. It's very important for the state to continue to work in peace, but with tools to answer and disprove any provocation that would not have arisen during this period, during the period of existence of this decree. That's why I'm talking to everyone again. First of all, adults are not afraid. Secondly, there is no panic in the country. Society understands why the State today is obliged to respond to the challenges that are, in the way that the State responds, namely, by introducing a state of emergency throughout our country. Once again, "Paternity" unanimously and fully supports this balanced and balanced decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-23-m2.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, articles 5, 6 of the Law on the Legal regime of states of emergency put to the vote for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law of Ukraine (registration number 7108) on the approval of the decree of the President of Ukraine on the introduction of a state of emergency in certain regions of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[21:49:10]] For 335 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I declare closed the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
