ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. Therefore, today, according to our decisions on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war, and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022, at the proposal of the Conciliation Council, the deputies' factions and groups, we continue the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, in our good tradition, let's begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! More than three months of full - scale military aggression, launched by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, is taking place. We believe that we will surely overcome the enemy because we defend justice, stand on the side of truth, good, and light. Sadly, the war continues to take away our courageous and self - sacrificing warriors. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of defenders and protectors who gave their lives for the sovereign independent European state. Everlasting honor, eternal memory of heroes. We also honor the memory of peaceful citizens who died at the hands of Russian invaders. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to work. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to give time to three minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups before the day’s agenda began. Dear colleagues, I also want to remind you that today we are going to have a high guest at 1:30. I would also like to ask the national deputies who are direct broadcasts from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refrain from doing so and to give all the information about the meetings 30 minutes after it is completed. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you with such a secure question. Let's start with the factions and groups, ask the factions and groups to sign up. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, good afternoon to the Ukrainians! Today we have a full day’s schedule and guests. But we are very happy and very happy that today's agenda includes a decision to refer to the RNB on the issue of sanctioning the Odystics of the Russian Orthodox Church, namely Decree 7332. As long as we're actively engaged in combat, you and I are with you, our task is to clear our country of the Russian world. And "Russian peace," including represented by such actors as Cyril and his colleagues, who are in fact oligarchs, church oligarchs, who are covered in ecclesiastical vestiges, have nothing to do with religion and spirituality. Let me remind you that Cyril, as he is Gundayev, is an ideology of "Russian peace", which brings war and ruin to Ukraine. It was he who killed Putin's "Russian peace," which awaits him here, waiting for Russian troops with flowers, bread and salt. Therefore, he must be responsible for the propaganda, disinformation he is carrying, the Russian Orthodox Church, for many years in Ukraine and continues to carry on in actual sanctification of the killings and genocide of Ukrainians. Gundyev calls the war in Ukraine a dramatic event, he does not say it is a war. Not even mentioning that more civilians were killed during the war than the military. More civilians have been killed in our country, and according to previous estimates, more than 40,000 civilians have died by the hands and by Russian missiles. "Russian Peace" isn't just Cyril. This false ideology is preached by the Metropolitan Volocolamian Ilario and the protoyer of Mikola Balasov. They're also on the sanctions list. Another Russian world leader, the Metropolitan Pskovsky Tikhon, known more than the priest Putin and the person close to the Russian Federation. Tikhin and Gundyev are the main developers and preachers of the concept of the Russian world, which denies the existence of the Ukrainian people as a separate nation. It is based on distorted stories, Orthodoxy, and a copy of the history of the Kyiv Russia in Moscow’s favor. It spreads narratives about a single nation and seeks to expand the expansion of RPCs to all Russian-speaking regions of the world, independent of state borders. The patriarch Cyril, along with other representatives of the RPC, is to share responsibility for the attack on Ukraine, Russia’s bloody war against the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. Our faction will vote. Our faction is the initiator of this decree, it will vote in favour of the introduction of personal economic and restrictive sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u3	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u4	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! We live with you for a very difficult time in our country. The war has raised many uncontrolled issues that are particularly damaging to Ukraine’s economy today. I appeal to you from this rostrum with a joint proposal, Parliament and Government, to develop a programme of economic support for Ukraine, economic and strategic important sectors in Ukraine's economy. Look what's happening today. Two or three more months and most of the industrial enterprises will start releasing people, we'll have a huge increase in unemployment in Ukraine. We are now proposing to think about and make a program that would allow Ukraine to raise its industry first, to load, not to free people, but to give these companies additional government orders, and at the same time to raise the economy, to raise taxes and, most importantly, to save jobs. What am I talking about first? For one thing, today we can raise questions that concern all utilities, damaged territories, and so forth. We have the opportunity today to rebuild these areas, to load our industries in such directions as the construction of transformers, substations, the construction of power grids, the construction of new pipelines, the raising of municipal heat plants that we have today at the expense of the Ukrainian industry to completely renovate. To introduce energy conservation programmes that would allow us to cut gas, electricity for most of our utilities and the private sector today. I understand there's no money. This must be the second part of our conversation today with the European Union, the United States, to get financial assistance, military assistance, including assistance in the amount of $3.5 billion a year that would enable us to load this industry and do a useful job for Ukraine -- reduce gas consumption, electricity, re-establish our cities, communities and make real energy-generating Ukraine. And first of all, this will load our businesses with Ukrainian industries. The second part is a big industry. This is about, for example, the integration of our Crucifixion with the European Community into the European network. This is the billions of dollars that it takes to get a European track in Ukraine, a European full-time job from Ukraine, to take out new transport corridors directly. But it must also be a program that needs to be considered. And these are jobs, including for Ukrainian businesses. I propose that a normal group be set up with the government to sit down and think about a plan of action.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u5	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, the MP's "Trust". Please, Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u6	Dear Ukrainians, colleagues, a venerable Presidium! First of all, I want to thank the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the defenders and the defenders who have been defending our Ukraine on the 97th day, choosing life for the Ukrainians. Our compassion for our family and loved ones, our brothers, who lost loved ones in the war. Thank the U.S.S.A. for giving us the opportunity to work. Despite the war, we, our whole nation, work as one body: military, medicine, doctors, teachers, agriculture, parliamentarians, for one we work to win. We, as members of the Ukrainian delegation of the Parliamentary Committee of the Association of Ukraine-EU, have worked in the past weeks with our Euro-colleagues on the diplomatic front of the European Parliament, have participated in meetings of foreign affairs committees, transport, security, defence, culture, agriculture. They met with President Roberta Metsola and European Parliament Vice-President Eva Copac, faction leaders to draw attention to the real situation in Ukraine, to call for increased assistance and sanctions, to agree on concrete actions and steps, namely, to continue Ukraine's support in the context of Russian military aggression. The EU will allocate 9 billion euros of assistance to the reconstruction of Ukraine and 2 billion military aid. But according to some MEPs, every day of the war in Ukraine costs 400 million euros (using just that amount), the technology and technology that is used is destroyed, and we have to pay attention inside the country to providing the army with everything we need. And this is not just about volunteers and international support, but about the state that has to act quickly and effectively. Because we don't have time, and the military has no complaints about providing the army, because that should be priority number one. I'm talking to the law enforcement agencies. Those corrupters and businesses who abuse during the period of war at the aid of the humanitarian community should be severely punished for their purchases. Our delegation has also worked to strengthen inter-parliamentary cooperation with our biggest allies-neighbours. Of course, we still need to work with Germany, France, towards their approval of Ukraine's status. It will not be easy, but we also need to pay attention to Euro-integration laws here in Parliament. And I very much hope that in the near future, the President will also sign the Law on Administrative Procedure, which is actually the key in our country's accession to the European Union. Thank you to every Ukrainian citizen, every one of you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Váterović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity". Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I would like to call you to solidarity. It is really important for us to get an application and it is very important for us to become a member of the European Union. This is only possible if we are united here, we will not be hostile to each other, we will understand what country we want to build, and we will shut our mouths to those who oppose our membership in the EU. But for us to be united, we need to be united around something. First of all, this is the general rule of democracy, this is the rule of law. Today you want to vote for the so-called distance. This is when MPs on the blue coast sit in Kannah and Nietzsche and push the buttons without appearing in the hall. Friends, our soldiers don't fight remotely. The distance might be justified during the pandemic. You're all out of masks. Apart from limiting democracy and subverting the role of parliament to make sure we don't get together here, it's a crime, it's wrong. This will not be accepted in any normal country. We won't vote for that. It's not the only fact that we see problems with democracy. You know, a few days ago, I was on the border with Peter Prashenko, who, as a member of the permanent delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, went to a meeting on an official mission signed by Mr. Stefanchuk, Head of the Supreme Council. And some border guard, John Golovchenko, does not release a national deputy for no reason, nor does he bring any punishment for this. No one can restrict a national MP under martial law, according to article 26 on the status of a member of parliament. In accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance on Rules for Crossing the Border During the War State, any person who is not bound by the military may leave. Obstacles to a member's going abroad and to a NATO meeting are a crime under article 351 of the Criminal Code. But everyone doesn't care. Any citizen can be humiliated, the MP can be humiliated, every person. Every man's face, every man's face, every man's the law. We don't care. Tomorrow you can be in this place, you may be humiliated. Who will protect your rights? You want to change the Ombudsman today. I understand there's a fair claim to Ludmila Dennis in everyone. But in an illegal way, contrary to the opinion of the defenders, changing the Ombudsman to a puppet, it is exactly as a crime to turn off independent TV channels from the T2 network for no reason, to shut them down, to restrict access, to limit freedom of speech, and then to expect someone to accept us into the European Union or to apply. It's a very high risk they won't give. And the responsibility will be for everyone here now, pressing the button, to kill democracy and statehood.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u9	The word is given to Kisil Igor Petrovich, a deputy group of the "Resurrection of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u10	Please give it to Crybaby.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u11	Tetian's crying, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u12	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's hard to talk about it, but war really dictates its rules. And what's a few key directions that the state has to provide in difficult circumstances is understanding each of us. First and foremost, the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the area of defence and security; second, social support and pensions; and third, the provision of a contingency fund to enable rapid response and assistance to those populations most affected and affected by the enemy's actions. And it's very important that all these three key positions today are reflected in the State Budget Sequester Bill that we're going to consider. An increase in the budget spending is a necessary, complex but ambitious step. Moreover, one source of funding is the reduction, the withdrawal of funding from political parties. Yes, not today’s political parties are expected to receive funds. The cost today is to be received by Kharkiv, Harkivians, other cities and villages, their inhabitants who have held fast for more than 90 days, holding their defenses under constant fire and destruction. The Ukrainian army, our boys and girls on the front line are guaranteed 30, 100,000 dollars of war money. We have to ensure this, this is our responsibility and our responsibility to the government. And even less is the responsibility of supporting people who have lost their jobs. With the bill on budget change, we'll close the issue of financing those applications in the EP support that came in from March and are still not implemented. Absolutely all debts owed to entrepreneurs must be met. In the social sphere, we support internally displaced persons in paying for housing and housing services. We provide the necessary grants to the Pension Fund, which unfortunately suffers from such a decline in economic activity. Thus pensions should also be paid in full. I'm convinced that this bill will be supported by the Supreme Council, and the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" will also support it. Of course, we must all be united and determined, we must take decisive steps to ensure that Ukraine prevails and that Ukraine wins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u13	The word is given to the National Deputy Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the conditions in which almost a hundred percent of the population today cannot be compared to what is happening today. But the situation and analysis of what is going on behind the front lines are equally important in the occupied territories that are now under the control of the racist fascists. We were able to see for these difficult months only part of those horrors after the liberation of the territory of Kiev, Montenegro, parts of Kharkishte, the substance. We can only imagine what is happening in the occupied areas of Hersonian, Zaporozhye, Donetskina, Lugansk, part of Kharkishte. Those passages that we can get from these very areas that are now controlled by the Russian fascists allow for further action to be taken in order to predict and, on the one hand, to protect the patriots that remain in these territories as much as possible, but on the other hand, that everyone who went to work with the invader would now understand what it would be like for him after all the territories of Ukraine were liberated. That is why our faction insists that at the next session we return with you to the Cooperation Law. Because it may result that those who work with Russian invaders today walk under their protection will continue to make sacrifices, and those who today have opposed themselves to Russian invaders will be victims, according to the reports and statements of those who cooperate with the Russians today. This is a matter of a variety of occupations, such as medical professionals, teachers, those who provide for the vitality of cities, villages, and villages, while in this occupied territory. And that's why it's so urgent that the pots don't become heroes, and the heroes don't turn out to be the last ones in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u15	The word is given to the National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, the MP's platform for life and peace. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Our parliamentary group will certainly support those legislative initiatives, 29 of them today, which are aimed at economic, social development, addressing budgetary deficits, other crises. But I would like to pay attention first of all to the fact that in the last plenary session we had, frankly, unacceptable things for the military state, such as cancelling VAT for audio books, or what used to be canceling VAT for premium cars. So these standards need to be removed and moved on and supported. Now it's about supporting the real economy, the small sector. micro, small and medium-sized businesses. 17 percent of the enterprises reported by the National Bank have not been opened today, 60 percent of the companies remaining are working for less than they are, 23 percent of those that are small and medium-sized enterprises are not working today, according to the European Business Association. And so today, one of the key issues to support the national economy is the support of small and medium-sized businesses, the reduction of the overall tax cumulative burden on small and medium-sized businesses, the real economy sector as a whole, given that the budget of Ukraine is being largely shaped today by external borrowings, we have the opportunity to compensate for this reduction in real-sector taxes. The next moment is, of course, the heating season. We have always emphasized that in the summer, prepare for the winter. You've seen all of the NAC's Naftogaz data, which published the figures on three times the price of gas for thermal power. This means that for today's budget, we're going to have to anticipate compensations and equalize this difference to energy for local budgets, to cover these utility payments. So, from this point of view, today it is necessary, if we are to make changes to tax legislation, to also collect VAT from the price of gas that goes to the needs of the population and the heat utility in order to at least partially raise municipal tariffs during this difficult period. The next moment. Today you have been told and heard in your speeches that we have integration aspirations, support for European integration. But this requires not a determination to take, but to open up a list of Copenhagen criteria in the economic sphere and see where and what we can achieve, to make this a financial and economic justification. Then it will be a real product for Ukraine's economy to be successful and European. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Let's move on. Today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian National MP, Maria Mikolayovna Ionova, European Solidarity. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the day’s vote. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote and click on the "Z" green button. I'll be right back. You need to hold down the sensor button and click on the "Z" button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the vote, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, we're starting a signal vote. [[12:34:47]] For 240 Dear colleagues, and I can ask everyone to the hall and we'll have another signal vote, because I can't understand what's going on. Please invite the national deputies to their direct jobs. Dear colleagues, once again, I'm calling for a vote. People's deputies, please, we're working with a sensory button, don't forget. Please, signal vote, one more time. [[12:35:27]] For 275 Oh, it's a different matter. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that we will first have questions that, without discussion, we vote either in the first and in general, or in the first. After that, we may still have a few laws, then we'll have an address for the guest invited, and then we'll keep working on it. In addition, there was a 125 national MP initiative on one human resource issue. The committee's already doing this, as far as I can tell. And that's a human resources issue that we're going to vote on today, and then we're going to end the agenda. Dear colleagues, please prepare, we will begin immediately with questions that we have agreed on without discussion. This is 7413, excuse me. 7413: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. We need to include this issue first in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, please vote 7413, inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[12:37:00]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed on this issue without discussion. So I'm proposing to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2022 (registration number 7413). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:43]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 7363, is a bill amending the Ukrainian law on volunteering for volunteering. Dear colleagues, we need to get it into the agenda first. I would like to propose to include Bill 7363 in the agenda of the day session. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is it? Dear colleagues, 7363. Once again, we are now in the order of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:48]] For 305 Dear colleagues, we agreed, without discussion, to accept this bill as a basis for further elaboration of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116. So I'm proposing to take the basis for the drafting of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of Law 7363, this is a draft law amending the Law on Volunteering in Ukraine on Volunteering in Support of Volunteering. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:34]] For 312 Decision taken. Next 7364. We also need to get into the agenda of the day session first. I therefore propose to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Promotion of Volunteering and the Activities of Nonprofit Institutions and Organizations in the Conditions of Armed Aggression of Russia against Ukraine (Registration No. 7364). [[12:40:19]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed without discussion to adopt this bill as a basis, so I propose to adopt Bill 7364 as a basis. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to promote volunteering and non-profit institutions and organizations in the context of Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:41:03]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but I'm still proposing that we cut back on the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of Bill 7364. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:41:33]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I've missed a previous cut in time, if you'll excuse me, it's a procedural decision, and we can vote on it as well. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of Bill 7363. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:07]] For 315 Decision taken. Let's move on. The next bill, 7280, is a second reading. We made a deal with our colleagues, no one's going to make any amendments. So, dear colleagues, I make the suggestion to accept it in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, there's a misunderstanding, I'm sorry. 7394. You'll have to take care of yourself, please. 7394. Dear colleagues, this is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for the depriving of the Russian Federation of the status of UNESCO member state (7394). Dear colleagues, we agreed not to discuss voting on this issue. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft regulation as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. I propose to include in the agenda a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) on the depriving the Russian Federation of the status of UNESCO member state (7394). Let's put it in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:44:01]] For 317 Decision taken. The next decision on the same bill. I propose that, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) on the disqualification of the Russian Federation as a member State of UNESCO (Project No. 7394). Please vote. [[12:44:42]] For 311 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next draft of the Law amending the Code of Taxation and other laws of Ukraine on the promotion of the production of ethyl alcohol denatured. This is Bill 7401. I'm proposing to include it in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:17]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, at the agreeing meeting of faction leaders and groups, a decision was taken without discussion on a basis and in general. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and other laws on the promotion of the production of ethyl alcohol denatured (Law No. 7401). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:02]] For 315 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7347. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing on Auditing for Wartime Auditing and Post-war Economic Recovery. I'm proposing to include this Bill 7347 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:41]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council of factions and groups, a decision was taken without discussion on the basis and overall with regard to the committee’s proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing Activities of Ukraine on Auditing Audition for Wartime Activities and Post-War Recovery of the Economy (Act No. 7347). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:47:30.]] For 316 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, this is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws in the field of education on the settlement of individual issues of education in the context of martial law, is 7325. I'm proposing that this Bill 7325 be included in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:48:07]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer. I'm just saying, given the committee's proposals. You don't have to read them. They're on the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to take the basis of the committee's proposals in the committee's decision, Bill 7325, which is the draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws in the field of education to address individual issues of education in the context of the state of the war. Once again, we vote on the basis of the committee's proposals. Please vote. [[12:48:57]] For 322 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals, amendments and preparations for the second reading of Bill 7325. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:22]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 7367, is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation (to provide additional safeguards for the protection of journalists working in areas of military (combat) action. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:50:00]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I will report that a decision was taken at the meeting of our leaders of factions and groups without discussion on the basis and in general. But the faction of "European Solidarity" is still asking to be accepted only on a basis, but then we're going to cut the line. Dear colleagues, I therefore propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for the provision of additional safeguards for the protection of journalists working in areas of military (war) action (registration number 7367). People's deputies, please vote on the basis. [[12:50:49]] For 322 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of Bill 7367. People's deputies, please vote. Please. [[12:51:15.]] For 321 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 7332, is a bill approving proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) against representatives of the Russian Orthodox Church. We need to put this in the agenda. People's deputies are requested to vote in favour of the inclusion of Bill 7332 in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:51:58]] For 303 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to accept, in general, the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on Approval of Proposals for the Application of Personal Special Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (Sanctions) against Representatives of the Russian Orthodox Church (Registration No. 7332). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:52:38]] For 292 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Next. Dear colleagues, we also agreed without discussing 6485, but we accept only on a basis. Therefore, honourable colleagues, Bill 6485, is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine to create conditions for the introduction of complex thermo-modernization of buildings. I immediately propose to adopt, on the basis of the redrafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, Bill 6485. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:53:32]] For 313 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to cut back on proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the creation of conditions for the introduction of complex thermomodernization of buildings (6485). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:54:07]] For 297 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, what has ended without discussion, we are now moving to the work of the Supreme Council more traditionally. 5656. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the inclusion of individual administrative congregations for state registration in the area of urban activities. Someone will, this is the second reading, someone will insist on repairs? No one will, dear fellows? Nina Petrovna. Now I'm going to find this bill, just a second. Yeah, then let's go like this. Bacon, 1 change. Don't insist. Skull, 2nd Amendment. Don't insist. Royal, 4th Amendment. Don't insist. Gettmans, 5th Amendment. Don't insist. Vasilchenko, 6th Amendment. Don't insist. Gwarenecki, 7th Amendment. Don't insist. Minko, 8th Amendment. Don't insist. 9th Amendment, Savichuk. Don't insist. 10th, Bacon. Don't insist. 11th, Chulak. Don't insist. 12th, Royal. Don't insist. 13th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 14th, Savichuk. Don't insist. 15th, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 16th, Zmerenecki. Don't insist. 17th, Minko. Don't insist. 20th, Savichuk. Don't insist. 21st, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. Yeah, don't insist, don't insist. That's what I understand, just Nina Petrovna. What will be your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u18	For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u19	Oh, just for confirmation you'll bet. Is someone going to make any adjustments? Oh, well, tell me you don't have yours. For confirmation. Please, Nina Petrovna. Oh, Alexi Hotcharenko, please. Tell me the correct number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u20	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, number three. The thing is, it's actually a technical adjustment, but we haven't had the opportunity to make a budget statement. And that's why I'd like to say a few words in general about what we need to have a different economic policy today. Stop all these attempts to squeeze something out of business, from citizens, and stop saying that some of our businesses aren't like that. Today, every person who gives at least one job is a holy person and is really our patriot and the person we need to support. That's why it's supposed to be our job to support everyone who works today, to stop having sex with someone, and, on the contrary, to completely liberalize everything. In any case, the State's main hope today is in a financial sense to support the West and our partners. So let us support our entrepreneurs rather than make the last of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u21	Thank you. Alexiyyovich, I understand you're not insisting on breaking this amendment? Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. People please. And Nina Petrovna, please, which one do you want? Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u22	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, please note the 26th amendment. First of all, we can't allow such laws from one line and then make changes to the Tax Code, it's forbidden by the law of Ukraine. Therefore, I ask that the 26 amendments apply precisely to allow Ukraine to make a budget commitment of up to 70 billion dollars, provided that such contracts are deferred until the full tax rates that you cancelled in March are refunded. Dear authorities, well, you definitely let go of the shore, you didn't control your actions, you canceled the excise and excise duties of oil producers in March, you understood that this was the only source of the road fund. Today you understand your mistake, but you have covered up the words of the high officials. Please do not vote in favour of this amendment, let it be worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the 26th Amendment. May I have your attention, please? She's supported by the committee. At the same time, Nina Petrovna, a respected man, puts her in charge of confirmation. The committee insists that it remain in the law, as I understand it, by looking at Yuri Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 26th amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[12:59:32]] For 248 Correction supported. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. No one's betting on confirmation anymore. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the National Registration of Urban Activities (project No. 5656). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:18]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next bill, 7307. Dear colleagues, 7307. We agreed that there would be a father's papers, Nina Petrovna's regulations, Julia Klimenko's regulations. This is a draft law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act "On certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex – participants in the Ucroprom State Company and ensuring their sustainable development". Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to have to ask you to consider this for 20 minutes, because we're going to have a guest. So, honourable colleagues, I take it, we're going after the amendments that are proposed. Someone will put their corrections into account? They will, I can see. Let's do it this way: 2nd, Nadvajchenko, Kirilenko. Ivan Grigorovitch, please 2nd. Two minutes, Ivan Grigorovitch. Please. Ivan Grigorovich. Oh, I'm sorry. Petty Officer, two minutes, please. Ah, Nastawajchenko – 2 minutes, Ivan Grigorovich – 2 minutes. Let's start with the landlady. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Now we need to understand what to start Ucroborprom means to start the Ukrainian defense. We're proposing an effective path as "Fatherland" as a team in the Supreme Council in order to get the weapons, the tools needed to win Ukraine, and produced and repaired in our factories, and thus the defence engine to work on full power. The other one. We've gone almost completely to NATO standards in the use of weapons and tools. This means that Ucroborinprom too has to be given weapons and ammunition licenses from our international partners to repair the same military technology and weapons. Now is the golden moment to do it. And we're turning to power, to you, to help you do this right now. Why? But in order for the Ukrainian Armed Forces to be constantly and fully equipped with howitzers -- yes, tools -- yes, technology -- yes, missiles, yes, and to be repaired, I will repeat everything that is necessary, also in Ukraine. The other one. We insist that the Ukrainian missile developers, who, unfortunately, did not receive support for missile, anti-aircraft systems from 2014-2015, will now receive this assistance. And this is called the contract for the production of the Dnipro missile complex, for the production of the Grim missile complex and the others that the Luc and the South Bank have, developed and waited for.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. Please, Ivan Grigorovich – 2 minutes, then 1 minute – Zimbaluk Mikhailovich. Who else is going to put it? Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! A few days before the outbreak of large-scale racist aggression in this room, a bill was considered that we forgave the government for repeatedly violating the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering and did not make proposals to the Supreme Council for prioritizing development, which means financing, scientific and research. It would seem that a mere routine event, but as they dug deeper, it turns out that as a result of such inaction, for several years, there were no priorities in either the defence complex or the agrarian sphere. What this has turned out to be today for the fate of the State, our people, is too much to say. If you do not believe, read Gorbulin’s recent interview. Something like this law. In this extremely important and sensitive area, the defense complex offers standards that present real corruption risks to this country’s fate. Yes, in accordance with part three of article 2 of the Law on State and Municipal Rental, renting provides for the fulfilment of basic principles such as openness, transparency, equality and competition, protection of economic competition, the provision of competitive leases and other types of contracts. Instead, the new part of article 3 of the law, which contained and contained corruption risks to second reading, was proposed in the first reading, quietly transferred by the committee to article 4 of the “Final Positions”. And it's not clear from the bill for second reading whether the corresponding additions of the households that have been converted into state-owned unitary defense companies are relevant. Friends, where corruption at this difficult time and even in defense, the Fatherland faction will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u28	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, by valid legislation to list the main elements of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex, are also referred to as state-owned enterprises. State administrations, institutions and organizations. At the same time, the bill proposes to grant authorized entities the right to transfer property free of charge in cases where such transfer is made in order to ensure the business of the defence and industrial complex. Thus, the free transfer of property is unjustifiably narrowed down by the defence and industrial complex, for which the free transfer of property is possible, I stress, because the wording of the bill leaves the authorities of the government, the institution and the organization that is wrong. We can't vote for such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, I think, Julia Klimenko, will you be two minutes too, or will you all make your amendments? One minute is Julia Klimenko and then Nina Petrovna Jujanin. Please, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I had many rights to this bill, some included. But the regulations of 20 and 40 concerned that all leases or property management contracts would be made public after the end of the war. And that makes it transparent for our citizens to see what Ucrobornprom was doing, and also the Cabinet of Ministers, and see all the contracts that were made during the war period. We have no right to hide this information with you after the war. It is agreed that during the state of war this should be closed information, but within four months of the end of the state of war, this information should be published, and we should see the real prices at which the leases and other contracts of Ucrobanprom were made. Unfortunately, it was not counted, so I understand that transparency is not in time. I wish these contracts would be published anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u31	Thank you, Julia Leonidina. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin, what is the correction? Will you take time to perform too?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u32	No, we'll go after the amendments. Amendment 19. Dear colleagues, I was pleased to hear what you were insisting on, and very strangely, we conceptually, when we first read it, I realized that we would approach the second reading more constructively. Because first of all, it was our job to keep the Ucrobornprom companies from stealing what they are, doing no distractions, or taking our technical documentation. The 19th amendment indicates that the agreement of such agreements should not only take place with the Ucroborprom, as we have already heard and have already characterized this body, but also with the Cabinet of Ministers as the governing body. This is an additional control to prevent anyone from going there and to ensure that our Ucrobanprom company is operating. Why is this amendment not supported? Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 19 amendments to the National Deputy of the South. The committee's offering to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:41]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u34	Next Amendment 31. After all, colleagues, I'm going to ask you again for your sanity. If we understand that there should be companies in this territory that will help us produce military technology and various products, why not consider such an amendment, where I said that the renter could be the sole person who does the manufacturing, development, modernization, repair or maintenance of weapons, military special equipment and has the necessary permission to work with the state secret? You know, we're not gonna make any jewelry there. We want to secure and help our Ukrainian Armed Forces. I very much ask you to support the 31 amendments. Remember, the more we're going to do for the Armed Forces, not for any "hotels" there, the better it will be for all of us, so we're going to speed up our victory. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, the position of the committee is short.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u36	Thank you, dear Nina Petrovna. This amendment is rejected, as it suggests setting too strict standards for a future tenant, which may lead to unnecessary procedural complications. This will complicate the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 31st amendment of the national deputy of Jujanina. The committee proposes to reject it. You've heard an argument from both sides. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:42]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, have you finished or have you? Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u38	I've finished mine. I want to put 42 amendments on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the committee, I have great respect for you, but you haven't done everything in your power to prevent what we have in practice. Well, maybe you don't have the experience. But now it's a big challenge to infiltrate these businesses. You're saying that my demands make the procedure more difficult. No, it's our reliability. 42 revisions. Look, you wrote out, you took into account one of my amendments. Once again, however, an unacceptable mistake was made regarding the timing of such agreements. As I'm told by the companies and the directors of these enterprises, no renter can be legally within this term of the contract – during the state of war and three months after it. We have to find a new structure, because we use this very often. But here's the thing, then you don't do that business.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Please take the 42 - way position of the Committee, which Nina Petrovna puts in for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u42	Nina Petrovna, thank you. They worked with the committee, with the defense, with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, and decided to leave it there. If there is a favor, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, because this amendment for confirmation is 42 amendments. She was a committee. At the same time, Nina Petrovna asks for confirmation of this amendment. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:00]] For 232 Decision taken. The amendment remains supported. All right, we're done here. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose the adoption of a draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex – participants in the Ucrobanprom State Company and ensuring their sustainable development (project number 7307). Once again, take a second reading and generally with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:03]] For 238. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we have a guest in 15 minutes. I'm going to have to leave now, so let's do it this way: let's call it a 10-minute break. But I very much ask, at 13:25 everyone in the hall. Ten minutes off, 13:25, everyone in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u44	Asking to take your seats, prepare for the meeting of honored guests.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u45	Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] The President of the Slovak Republic, Zuzan Chaputov, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to invite you to the meeting room, Madam President. Hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that Mrs. President of the Slovak Republic, Zuzan Chaputov, will speak today. And allow me to address you, Madam President. On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, we express our sincere gratitude to the Slovak people, the National Council of the Slovak Republic, the Slovak government, personally for Ukraine’s consistent and decisive support. Your country was there for us and for our nation, and it immediately gave out a friendly hand. Thanks to your help, we give back to the aggressor and draw closer to our victory. Your country has accepted over 400,000 of our fellow countrymen who, in connection with the war, were forced to leave their homes, of whom nearly 80,000 have filed applications for temporary protection in your country. Every concern of friendly Slovakia about our people is always in the minds and hearts of Ukrainians. Thank you for, in principle, your position on the imposition of sanctions against the Russian Federation. They firmly believe that the full - scale sanctions against Russia can quickly deprive Russia of the resources needed for the continuation of the war. We highly appreciate your strong faith in us, the belief that Ukraine is worthy to be with you in the European Union. Your country is one of the powerful drivers in the process of getting our state's status as a candidate for accession to the European Union as soon as possible. For the Ukrainian people, full membership in the European Union is an omrian strategic goal. Right now, in fierce battles, our best sons and daughters stand for the value of democracy, human rights and freedom, the rule of law, the European future of our nation. We hope that your confidence in Ukraine's ability to make the European Union better inspires other EU member states to think and act in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Slovak Republic, Zuzan Chaputov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Ladies and gentlemen! Before lunch today, I was in Irpen and Borodianca, and I saw this horror caused by the Russian army. One thing I had in mind was, what right could have caused you such harm as you could have been so offended? There is no normal answer. If everything were to follow Vladimir Putin's plan, today your country would be under the control of the occupying forces, and in Kiev would be ruled by a puppet government governed by the Kremlin. Vladimir Putin’s plan failed. Instead, I now address you, the representatives of the Ukrainian people, chosen by free and democratic elections, to the great people of the great state. In the suburbs I saw in yours. They are the tragic souvenirs of the Putin fantasmagoria, the idea of a world that exists only in the conditions of those who do not believe in human freedom, those who do not believe in the right of people and countries to choose their own path and destiny, an idea that is dangerous not only for Ukraine but also for the entire democratic world. Dearly present, the reality is clear: Russia has long fought against the Ukrainians. The conflict didn't start with the barbaric rocket strike of the dark February 22nd, it started long before the massive propaganda that denied your nationality, your national or cultural identity, your language. The dehumanization of Ukrainians and Ukrainians was initiated long before Russian soldiers committed war crimes in Butch or Mariupoli long before the Green Men and None invaded Crimea and Donbas in 2014. The reality is that over the past eight years, we as the West have not done enough to stop Moscow. Many thought that they would have enough Crimea, that Russia would please part of Donbas. Slovaks know this scenario very well. Adolf Hitler commanded the world at the beginning of World War II that Czechoslovakia, free and democratic, was not part of his plan for a new Europe. He aggressively took over our territory while our allies in the West kept their eyes closed. They thought that the Munich covenant had sown peace, but they had reaped shame. The wars that have destroyed millions of our lives and the lives of people and your country have not been prevented. Since February 24, 22nd, it has become clear that many areas of Donbas or Putin Crimea are not interested. He wants to destroy Ukraine because you are different. You were building an open society and an economy, strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption. By your way of life, you have proved daily that you no longer want to have anything to do with the homosexuals. [[Applause]] One of Putin's own propagandists at your address said, "You're anti-Russia." Dear Ukrainians, dear Ukrainians! Today, you are protecting your country, your life, your future, and your right to make your own decisions. You defend the rights and rules that guaranteed our continent a decade of peace, the rules that the Russian Federation is about to see. By your struggle you protect us, and we thank you for this, your war is just and defensive. In this war, the whole democratic world is on your side, and not just the rhetoric that you've been listening to for a long time, but now is the time for action. As your neighbor, we feel the direct consequences of Russian aggression against you, we do not close our eyes. Today, we are among the countries that, given the number of people, help the most. We can't fight with you with guns in our hands, but I want to say what we can do and what we do. First, we'll take care of those of you who, as a result of the war, had to go abroad, your wives and children, as long as they needed it. [[Applause]] I am proud of the powerful wave of solidarity of my fellow citizens. In the early days of the invasion, I greeted your citizens on our border and saw the consequences of the hell that Putin made on your earth. I saw fear, pain, and great determination in the eyes of those to whom we gave shelter. And I want to assure you that fear is disappearing, we help them control their pain, but integrity is always there. Your loved ones, your wives, your mothers, your grandmothers, your children think about you and pray for you. They believe that they will soon be able to return to a free country. Secondly, we know that the invaders of your country will not be expelled from our packages of medicines and products. Your protectors need military equipment and equipment, so we help and help in this direction. [[Applause]] Recently, it was a C-300 defense system or exchange equipment and ammunition, and soon it'll be Zuzana's hub. We also talk about this with our partners and allies that Ukraine needs not only humanitarian but military assistance. Thirdly, we will not shut our mouths, we will not keep our mouths shut when Russia commits war crimes in front of the world. I saw today that Russian invaders were left behind in the suburbs of Kiev. A month ago, forensic experts and police officers from Slovakia began to assist your prosecutor and experts. I know that documenting the crimes that Russia has committed in Ukraine will not bring back to you your loved ones, but it will enable you to tell the world what happened and to accuse those who did it. [[Applause]] Fourthly, we will also help you export grains and other goods that today the Putin regime is cynically confiscating or blocking in Ukrainian ports. He hopes that this will break you even more economically and weaken the free world's determination to sanction Russia's aggression by threatening a global food deficit. But he did the opposite: Today the whole world sees who is being blackmailed and who is being attacked. Our determination to help you did not diminish, but it did. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, many of our mothers and parents still remember the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 68. Then came tanks to smother our efforts to humanize and democratize the totalitarian regime. At that time, the entire civilized world condemned this invasion. Mass demonstrations took place in many large cities. However, the world has done little to make a difference. The demonstrators were also at the Red Square in Moscow, and eight brave men were then opposed to the occupation of Czechoslovakia with the words "For Our Freedom and Your Freedom." Today, we are not only standing in many areas of large cities for your freedom, but we are helping and helping you not to make the same mistake the world has made in 68. We're with you, you're close to us. More than 100 years ago, at the beginning of World War I, the first Czech wife made a solemn oath in Sofia Square, which was later joined by Slovaks. They lived in the Mikhail Monastery, and they were taught in the Volodymyr Mountains. Your capital was the foundation of our Czechoslovakian resistance movement, even though the then authorities did not take it seriously. And you know what happened? From 1918 to 1919, she controlled the Trans-Siberian Highway, controlled the entire Soviet Russia, and gained international respect. Today, your supporters and you all deserve our great honor. [[Applause]] Dear Ukrainians, dear Ukrainians! I believe your country will win this war, and Russia must pay for its huge mistake. Those who today call for the cessation of military assistance to Ukraine are calling for your surrender, those who believe that reconciliation is possible even without the withdrawal of the Russian army, have learned nothing from history – 1938, 1968 or 2014. And to those who today call for the preservation of Vladimir Putin's face, I recommend that you read a biographical book about him called "The Faceless Man." Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Today, debate continues on whether or not to grant Ukraine candidate status to join the European Union. The answer for us is clear to you. Ukraine belongs to the European Union and will be an integral part of it. Slovakia and I will personally do everything we can to make this happen as soon as possible, and I will continue to talk about it with our European leaders. We will help you on your way to recovery. When this horror is over, Ukraine will flourish again as flowers flourish among the destroyed buildings in Borodjanec or Butchi today. Never do we need to negotiate with a feeling of fear, but let us not allow fear to prevent us from entering into negotiations. We all want peace, and you Ukrainians want it the most. Slovakia will support all efforts towards a peaceful settlement of the war that Russia has begun. But only if you define yourself -- the people you attacked -- the Ukrainian people who are heroically defending themselves. We will continue to support you so that you will be as strong as possible in these talks. As your famous poet Taras Shevchenko said: "Fight! God Helps You! For you are the truth, the glory and the holy will are for you."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the distinguished Madam President for taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u48	We're continuing our meeting. Once again, we thank the President and the Slovak Republic for the more peaceful Ukrainian sky. [[Applause]] Colleagues, please take your seats, we'll have a vote right away. We're moving on to Bill 7129. Draft Act amending the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the holding of remote meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To get to the bottom of this, we need to put it in the order of the day of our session. Therefore, it is a request to prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the Hall. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill for registration number 7129: draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the holding of remote meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:51:54]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Let me show you through the factions. The bill is not included in the agenda of the day session, so we can't look at it. Next bill under registration number 7402: Draft Act amending Chapter X of the Act on Protection of Economic Competition (to monitor the concentration of economic operators in connection with the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine). We vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill (registration number 7402). Please vote. [[13:52:47]] For 238. Decision taken. Let's move on to the bill. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[13:53:12]] For 222 Decision taken. Colleagues, we used to have this procedure that no one was speaking from the authors, no one was speaking from the committee, only the factions who wanted to discuss it. So I suggest you sign up: two for, two for, please. Please, Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u49	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to determine the bill by way of a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u50	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich, for your fineness. Cuba's Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity". Please, Stepan Ivanovich. And Alexy Hotcharenko? I could've taken it from here. Well, you can come from the rostrum. Please. Someone can take you on a smartphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, of course, our task today is to raise, as far as possible, the economy of the state, it's another front, extremely important, so that we can preserve our state, so that we can win that war, for the independence that we are fighting today. Yet, my friends, unfortunately, I hear and see, including from our colleagues in this room, absolutely strange things: wanting to squeeze something out of business, beating up some of those who are still working, some talk about business being guilty and so forth. I want to remind you that today it's the Ukrainian business, the responsible business, the entrepreneurs who are financing armor and helmets, cars and thermal visions, and even drones and almost airplanes, all that our army needs today, our movers. This is what our business is doing today, all of which our entrepreneurs are doing today, small, medium and large, all together. And that's why I want to turn around and say, we have to stop all of these ideas about let's do something else. We have to stop this "hemmantic" when we say let's get something and print it out. We need to stop this right now. Today, every person who creates at least one job is a hero to be supported. The main task of the state today is to give people a job, give them a place to go, give them a place to work. That's the most important thing. Anyway, we're dependent on you today on the financial assistance of the West, so what difference does it make to us 20 to 30 million when I hear we're going to squeeze a billion dollars? Is that, is it worth, like, 30 million dollars? Absolutely not. So, my friends, we support entrepreneurs and economies. Get the hell out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u52	Please, Dubil Valery Alexanderovich, Fatherland. Who's gonna be from Fatherland? Ivan Kirilenko, please. Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u53	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The "Fatherland" faction at its meeting has considered the bill and certainly has some positive effects, particularly the simplification and acceleration of the state's military control over enterprises that operate in the field of energy and housing services. If the purpose of control is to prevent the occurrence or removal of the consequences of emergencies or a breakdown in heat, electricity, and electricity. At the same time, the acceleration and simplification of the mechanism of forced removal of property rights of the Russian Federation and property rights of its residents for reasons of social need, including cases of which this is constantly required by military necessity in favour of the State of Ukraine. We believe that this bill can only be voted on the basis that there may be situations where the imposition of sanctions as a result of the violation of the requirements for concentration of operators after the end of a state of war and the provision of time for the operators to comply with such requirements should be extended for a period of time, such as six months after the end of a state of war. Therefore, we will make appropriate adjustments to the second reading. We hope that they will be approved. And this bill is going to be voted by the Fatherland faction on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u54	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, dear colleagues! I would also like to highlight, in support of the previous speaker, that we will support, on the basis of this draft law alone, in order to also make appropriate proposals. Because I would like both our colleagues and the audience to know that the project is being proposed during a period of war, that there will be no need to agree with the Antimonopoly Committee with a view to obtaining control, non-admission, emergence or elimination of the consequences of emergencies or disruptions in heat, energy supply, natural gas and so on. So from this point of view, there's a rational grain here. I've already talked about today, and I'll also remind you that today we have to prepare with you for the start of the heating season, just in the summer, because the pricing offered by Naftogaz three times above is, frankly, unacceptable, and the very principle of pricing and that formula is unacceptable. And what we have today in the country, of course, is to overcome the negative consequences and the overall results of the state of war, and what we have today in the country, we have to get to the heating season with as much resources as possible. That's the first one. Second, economic concentration, economic policy and so on. I would also like to point out that so far there are no bills in the agenda that are fundamental or institutional in order to address urgent economic issues. We see with you all the $37, fuel under 60 bracelets, and a number of other things that don't allow people to survive anyway. So when we made, unfortunately, there was no budget discussion today, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when we take such significant and borrowing is 1.1 trillion dollars, and when the budget deficit is almost 800 million, and when we return, almost 600 billion dollars, it is also necessary to index the minimum pension, the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum wage and the minimum wage. Then we'll have a real purchasing class that can run the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u56	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Colleagues, "Trust"? Sergei Shahov, right? Please. Will someone be from Future? Nobody yet. Please, "Trust," Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u57	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, our group will support this bill in the first reading. We have to look at business from another perspective today, because there is business and there is a second army that is fighting on the fronts today, but we have to give as much air as possible today and make benefits for all businesses that are still in Ukraine and help the military in the east and on all fronts where the war is going today. We should give business the opportunity to develop today, the industrial base that the Orcs took on Donbassa today, we should move to the center of the country, to the west of the country, to give jobs, to give development to Ukraine, and to give the opportunity today to make business believe that we are working for the future, for the sake of confidence in parliament. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u58	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Did all the groups express themselves to the factions who wanted to? Ah, Voice. Please. I don't see it from there. Please. Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u59	Please pass the word to the Engineer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to caution against voting on this bill as a whole. Regrettably, I was unable to convince my colleagues on the economic committee on this matter, since I was disconnected, out of touch. And I want to warn you that the amendment or observations that are made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate are just talking about the risk of acceptance as a whole, and somehow they weren't taken into account during the committee, as I understand it. So we can actually open Pandora's box after the war. During wartime, this law is clearly necessary. It is therefore dangerous to vote in general. We need to make it possible for the Antimonopoly Committee to regain control, and we need to make it clear, either after the war was canceled or at another point, that there should be no concentration of business in which we can guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u61	Thank you. Everyone's already, yeah, like? Then let's go to the vote, colleagues. Asking you to take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law (registration number 7402) amending Chapter X of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on Protection of Economic Competition (to monitor the concentration of economic operators in relation to the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine). Please vote. Colleagues, voting. [[14:04:28]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Now, just a second, me. Show the factions, please. Colleagues, there is a proposal for rereading the first reading to direct it, and in the course of the term that we have between the meetings, the colleagues are working on it, and perhaps even in general, we will accept it from a second attempt. This is us and Motovilovac, we're working out, okay, with Andry Viktorovich. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the bill for registration number 7402. Please be supportive. [[14:05:47]] For 203 The decision is not taken. We can take back the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. I'm betting on the vote to return the subject to processing, please register number 7402. [[14:06:30.]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected, the bill. Thank you. Next. And let's make a signal vote, because here some colleagues say someone doesn't have a system card and so on. Colleagues, please vote in the alarm vote. Please vote. [[14:07:26]] For 251 The factions? You can do it in factions. There are more than 226 deputies in the hall, so we can continue to work. Then we have a bill for registration number 7345. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of individual powers by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting in terms of state of war. First vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[2:08:21]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, or we could invite factions and groups to meet me for a small meeting, so that we can identify those bills that we can vote on today, we can vote quickly, and we can split up so that we don't waste our time. Please approach the factions and groups for one minute. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on what bills we will now consider and what will have the potential to support them. Please go to Bill 4225: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Please, Hanna Veychaevna Bondar. If you are, please come to the rostrum. And we have some adjustments. Dear colleagues, who insists on law enforcement? Windstorm. What are the numbers? Tell the microphone because we don't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u62	I insist on confirmation of 23 and 30, and two speeches, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u63	Place two revisions on the confirmation. Please, Veitatrovitch, "European Solidarity"
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the Law on the National Military Memorial Cemetery is really important. Given the situation that Ukraine is in right now, unfortunately, we have a loss every day among the dead heroes who are protecting Ukraine. The text that we voted in the first reading of the law contains an important position that there cannot be buried on this cemetery by persons who quote, "encouraged the leadership of the Communist Party, the higher authorities and the administration of the Soviet Union, the Soviet Republics, the workers of the Soviet State Security Authorities." By amendment 23 taken into account by the committee, this rule has been thrown out of the bill. Colleagues, we can't turn a cemetery into a cemetery for our heroes to a place of respect for the Chegebists and party secretaries. So I ask you very much to return this important norm and please put Amendment No. 23 to the vote and do not support it. This is very important for us to honor those true heroes who are now dying, protecting Ukraine's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u65	Thank you. Are you just 23 or something? Let's talk about both of you right now, and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u66	No, let's vote for this one, then the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u67	All right, let's go. Okay. Please, Hanna Vechaslavina, do you have anything to say from the committee, from the authors?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u68	Yes, I can comment. Dear colleagues, at first we have a bill, which was adopted in the first reading, containing certain norms, of which there were exceptions, not exclusions. Accordingly, the committee decided to establish a specific list of those who had the right to be buried. Apparently, there are no Communists there. So the point is that this is the Military Memorial National Cemetery, where people who protected Ukraine, their sovereignty and independence can be buried and are involved in hostilities. Thank you. Please confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u69	Thank you. I'll bet you the license number 23 of the People's Deputy Klochka. The committee takes her into account, the committee asks her to leave her alone. Please vote. [[14:14:41]] For 209 No decision taken, no correction counted. Please, Mr. Vitatrovitch, second revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u70	Dear fellows, Amendment 30 is also requested for confirmation. It has to do with Amendment 23. Thank you for not supporting the previous amendment. It also makes it impossible to bury in the military cemetery of the Chegebists and leaders of the Communist Party, the Communist totalitarian regime. Please also place it for confirmation and do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u71	Please bet approval number 30. Please, the position of the committee, let's hear it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u72	Number 30 counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u73	Is there anything you can do?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u74	Basically. So I want to remind you that we have three different projects in Ukraine. This is the bill that we're looking at: the creation of the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Since 2015, the Ukrainian President’s decree has provided for the creation of a memorial for Ukrainian heroes. And there is a separate decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2015 that will be followed by the creation of the Ukrainian National Pantheon as a burial place for Ukrainian independence fighters in the 20th year. I want to remind you that this bill has a long history. It comes out of the 2011 Supreme Council Regulation. At that point in the decree, really, there was a position on the fighters for independence, but today we are considering the bill on the National Military Memorial Cemetery. So in fact, the first reading included independence fighters, and 30 revisions exclude this rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u75	Please bet on confirmation number 30 of the national MP Klochka. The committee's listed, the committee's asked to account. [[14:16:48]] For 235 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. Are they still willing to apply? Can we move on to the bill as a whole? I would like to vote on the second reading and in general the bill for registration number 4225 to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the National Military Memorial Cemetery with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please vote. [[14:17:33]] For-286 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, next bill 7342. We agreed to a discussion. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes on asset management during the War State. Dear colleagues, I propose to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:18:27]] For 270. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:18:49]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please register: two in favour, two in favour. For discussion. Please. Please, National Deputy Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u77	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, the bill has been discussed on the committee, all the amendments have been taken into account, please proceed to the consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Maydic Oleg Leonidovich, faction of the political party "The Motherland Union." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u79	Kabachenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u80	Vladimir Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u81	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, first of all, there's a very big difference between the text of the bill that was prepared for the first reading and between the text of the bill that we see today. And first of all, I want to thank the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee for meeting them, and yet they've changed the text of the bill and made it the way that the Fatherland faction is happy to support. But the ARMA and the problems with the ARMA today are quite different: the ARMA is now functioning without a head. On the one hand, there's a competition commission, it's already chosen, there's candidates who've already sent their resumes, biographies. And the competition commission is today to gather and choose the actual head of the ARMA, which will implement the activities of the ARMA in a consistent and correct manner. So using this point, I want to go to the leadership of the ARMA and to the people who work with the ARMA and call them to the one. Let the competition committee gather, pick the head of the ARMA, and we'll start working with the ARMA. And the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy will control the activity, the proper activity of this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! It seems to me that all of us should be shocked that we have a loving law that seems to be related to trying to help our Armed Forces and to the fact that we have to do what we need to do with the legislation for this in the hall. This law is also supposedly called for. But before that, you and I were looking at the same Law 7307, where it's absolutely obvious that we haven't fully figured out and started the mechanism that we're going to run in our defenses for the enterprises of different divers and those who are going to be copying our technical documentation. We did not manage to complete it. I'm very unhappy that we stopped discussing draft laws to make changes to the budget. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, please tell me the opacity that we now allow with you cannot be in the course of a war, please understand. Before that, the government budget deficit has increased by 200 billion, now by 278 billion. What can we see? Only the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers, to which we have given the right to form a reserve fund and to manage it, have seen those expenses that are prime. But we don't really see what is funded, how much we really support, we have enough money to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The State Treasury website doesn't work. We're being deprived of our ability to see, and what's really going on with the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Well, that's enough writing on paper. Let us do the things that will really help our army. And also, I wanted to offer you such an offer. Can you still get people's MPs to access the treasury data through an e-signature from the MP? Mr. Head, this will mean that only a national MP can see the report we used to use with you. Understand that only the State Treasury published all the data on spending. If we can see that, why don't we give this right by electronic signature?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, what about our schedule, I'm sorry, "Race"?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u85	Oh, that's scary. Two words out of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u86	But it's no big deal. I'm asking the board, you've been taking 18 more seconds. Please, colleagues. "Rejoice," please, why isn't the microphone switched off in two minutes? Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We are moving on to making a decision on this law. People's deputies please take their seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we accepted it as a basis, but I understand that there is already agreement to accept it as a whole. It is, isn't it? But, Anastasia Olegna, are there any conclusions of a committee that we should consider or not? I mean, are you taking into account the committee's proposals or not? All right, all right, thanks. I got it. Dear colleagues, then I am proposing (preparing for a vote) to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7342. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes on asset management during the War State. Bill 7342. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:25:38]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as we talked about, before we move on, we have a personal question, we already have a committee decision, we have a committee meeting. Therefore, according to the requirements of section 12 of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of War, under the initiative of 125 Ukrainian National Deputies before you, the question of expressing mistrust to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights is proposed to be considered by Dennis's Human Rights Committee, Leontiyevny, which is the result of her dismissal. In accordance with part four of article 20 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. The right materials for dealing with this issue are provided electronically. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been addressed with a letter from the deputy faction of the political party "The Servant of the People" proposing to put to the vote in accordance with part three of article 6, part two, of the Supreme Council regulation 34, the question of today's invitation to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the issue of the reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Vereshtsek Irina Andriyevna, who will give her the floor for the speech, up to 5 minutes. Irina Andriyevna is, isn't she? According to part three of article 6, part two of article 34 of the Supreme Council Rules, and we agreed to do so on the Conciliation Council, putting to the vote the proposal for an invitation today to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Vereshuk Irina Andriyevna, with a statement to give her for the speech, within 5 minutes. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[14:27:33]] For 259. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to invite Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Irina Andriyovna Vreeshuk. Please, Irina Andriyovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! First of all, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. And, with your permission, I'll get right to it. In other circumstances, I probably would not allow myself to evaluate the activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights, but exceptional circumstances force us to take exceptional steps. I apologize in advance if my rhetoric sounds a little harsh. It is not for the purpose of offending but for the purpose of making a clear and profitable statement. So the active phase of the war with Russia caused a huge humanitarian crisis because of the rapid expansion of the war zone, the increase in the number of internally displaced persons and the sharp deterioration in the functioning of infrastructure. We all remember these early days, difficult days, weeks when it was very, very difficult. People expected adequate humanitarian response from the authorities and, of course, from the Commissioner for Human Rights. The problem is (and it's not only, unfortunately, my opinion, I would very much like to make a mistake, but it's not the case) that, even then, in the first days and weeks of war, or now the potential of the Human Rights Commissioner's office is not being used adequately for the demands and challenges of war. Perhaps Mrs. Ludmila is a fine ombudsman in peacetime, but not in wartime. And it's not just my opinion, I emphasize. In the first days of the war, I was forced to do and do a work that was closer to the role of the Ombudsman than to the function of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Reintegration. It's the opening of humanitarian corridors, it's the evacuation of civilians from the war zone, the exchange of prisoners, the repatriation of the bodies of the dead, the return of civilians from Russian captivity, the work of deported persons, especially children. Let me briefly explain what has been done during this time. There were 165 humanitarian corridors in six areas. More than 340,000 civilians have been evacuated, mostly women, children, older people and the less mobile. We had 14 prisoners of war, 303 soldiers were released, and 101 civilians were returned from captivity. They created the National Information Office according to the Geneva Convention, which is currently processing tens of thousands of appeals. They created the office of Commissioner for Missing Persons under special circumstances. And unfortunately, he also has a lot of work to do. In short, the humanitarian direction is also as important as the battle front, because to win, we have to protect the civilian population and minimize civilian casualties. I'm not saying that the Ombudsman is supposed to do everything in the humanitarian direction, but his or her role is extremely important. And unfortunately, today's work, I think, is not responding to the challenges of wartime, and I'm going to talk about it directly. We don't have enough real and adequate humanitarian response, and unfortunately, some of the information waves that are created from the office of the Authorized are directly damaging, are harmful, and are directly damaging to today's humanitarian situation. It's about kids, it's about women, it's about rape. I won't say it again, you know it all. And we can't stop responding to the problem. I understand and realize that the potential of an ombudsman in wartime for humanitarian response must be greater. And to conclude, once again, I would like to apologize for having this inequitable function today to address this very question to you. I know what to do with you, and it'll be your decision. And I want to thank everyone very much. We've been working with you, working with you. I know there's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u88	Thank you, Irina Andriyevna. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the Conciliation Council. A procedure was proposed that was accepted by colleagues on the Conciliation Council: a report by the National MP, one of the initiators of the proposal, up to 3 minutes; a speech by the Authorised Human Rights Council, up to 3 minutes; reports from the Main Committee, up to 2 minutes; statements from the MPs and groups, up to 16 minutes (this is 2 minutes for the presentation); and decisions on this issue. In total, up to 32 minutes. So I'm putting the procedure on the Conciliation Council to a vote. Please vote. [[14:33:59]] For 222 One second, colleagues. 150 is necessary for a procedural decision. Your Honor, what's going on with you today? The Honorable Council, for that decision. Dear colleagues, it doesn't matter. 222 is enough to make this decision. Dear colleagues, we have. [[B in m in s a l in]] They said what? Now we're going to clarify this information for a second. We're waiting for this information, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. The report invites one of the initiators to make a proposal to Ukraine’s national deputy, Olena Alexiyevna Schulak. Please, Olena Alexiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u89	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The authorized Human Rights Council is a person who has to exercise parliamentary control with respect for the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen and the protection of everyone in Ukraine. A human rights authority is an independent institution that should not be under any political influence. This position should then be occupied by a person with a crystalline, clean, and unspotted reputation. This person should have a high level of social empathy, maintain communication with everyone without exclusion from the citizens who ask him to protect their rights, regardless of how resonant one or the other is. Finally, this person has to ensure the efficiency of the work and the performance of the tasks that are so important to the society of the institution. This is especially important today when the full-scale aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine is being carried out in our territory, unprecedented in numbers, cynicism and insolence of human rights violations. We need to prove violations of such rights, codify and draw the attention of the world to such crimes. That is, we need both national and international confidence in who is in this position. So in today’s situation, the Authorized One has a double burden of work and a double responsibility for the result. Unfortunately, when we talk about today's situation, we can't find out the effectiveness of the Human Rights Commissioner's Institute, especially during the war. The faction of the political party "The Servant of the People" has endorsed the decision to invite parliament to express its mistrust to the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Deniss’s Humanity Leontiyevny, because of the numerous shortcomings in her work. I'm only going to pause very briefly on some of the facts that cause the most anxiety. First. We have a public announcement at the end of April by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights in social networks and the media about the location of 58 orphans in a church in the city of Herson. This publication led to the fact that these children were immediately identified and exported in an unknown direction by Russian security forces. Even so, one fact would be sufficient for the Human Rights Commissioner to resign voluntarily. We impose penalties for the release of our troops and other military information. We have detected and applied administrative responses to people who are stupid and otherwise not, published images and videos on social networks of rockets and bombs in the neighborhoods of our cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear National MPs, the statement is given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights of Ludmila Leontiyovna Denisova. Please, Sophia Leontievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The mandate and mandate of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined in accordance with article 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Authorized and Parisian Principles Act of the General Assembly of the United Nations of 93. This is parliamentary control over the observance of human and citizen rights and freedoms and the protection of everyone in Ukraine and within its jurisdiction. It extends to the relations of citizens and public authorities, local self - government, legal and natural persons. Authorized by status "A", full compliance with the Paris principle and recognized as a legitimate, reliable, independent and effective institution. This also testifies to the authority of Ukraine as a State that guarantees respect for human and civil rights and freedoms. The level of trust in the Authorized Society is confirmed by the increase in the number of people who turn to it. If it was 25,000 in 2018, it was over 62 in just five months this year, taking into account the 49,000 who turned to the hotline only on March 4. This is relative to 95,000 people. As part of the implementation of the Paris Principles, the Authorized Authority is obliged to inform society, citizens of the violations that plague the territory with regard to them, to inform international society in order to respond accordingly. I get all this information from people who give such a witness to my employees who work in all regions of Ukraine, including in occupied Herson, reports from partner law enforcement organizations, interviews with citizens who have been returned from temporarily occupied territories and from captivity. According to article 4 of the Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, it is established that the activity of only the Authorized, Complementary, is the activity of the public authorities. And it's in the powers of the Ministry of Reintegration that there is the organization of humanitarian corridors, the provision of humanitarian aid, and the exchange of prisoners. I only used to deal with prisoners when I was with them. And I was admitted by the President's Office. I am not going to lecture now on the fact that article 12 does not correspond to article 10 of the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u92	Thank you, Sophia Leontievna. Please take your place. Honourable National MPs are invited to the floor for the report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of the temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk-Lugansk region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, the national smaller and international relations of Dmitro Valeriovich Lubinec. Dmitry Valeriyovich, please inform us of the results of the committee's review.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u93	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Presidencies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine, Ludmila Leontiyevna! Today, we have received an order from the speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we should immediately convene a committee meeting. We have done so, the Committee on Human Rights, the Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories of the Donetsk-Luhansk Region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the City of Sevastopol, the National Minor and International Relations, addressed this issue at its meeting on 31 May, initiated in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Legal Regime of the State of Ukraine, by the 125 People's Deputies on Distrust of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights of Dennis's Human Rights, which will result in its release from office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from human rights, and endorsed the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary to vote on the initiative of the Ukrainian People's Deputees. So, honourable national deputies, I'll tell you from our committee. At today’s meeting, virtually all the national deputies present expressed appreciation for the work of Ludmila Leontiyevny. She was with us at each meeting. We've had a lot of travel meetings, monitoring visits. So our committee thanked for the work and made a decision, if there is such an initiative, the Supreme Council can and should determine whether there are enough votes for such an initiative. Thank you. Thank you, Sophia Leontiyevna, for the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u94	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Dear colleagues, we sign up for the performances by MP factions and groups. Please, Galina Mikolayevna Tretyakova, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u95	Please pass the word to Bardini Marina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u96	Marina Bardina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u97	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In fact, the Human Rights Commissioner's Institute is a vast institution, and fortunately, in Ukraine over the past decade, a powerful structure of law-abiding social organizations has developed. Therefore, we too need to listen to and make appropriate decisions. Since this initiative has arisen and this initiative is justified, they have already been sounding and our colleague, Helena Schuljak, today, so I propose that we really consider this issue, support it and move on to the definition of a new candidate. And the new candidature should actually be offered to that right-wing environment that I'm talking about. It must be a competent, professional person who works in a law-enforcement environment for a long time has an appropriate reputation and recognition in this environment. And you and I are going to have to support someone like that. To this day, there is a proposal for a statement of mistrust to Mrs. Dennis. I think she needs to be thanked for the work she's done, but also to give an assessment because it wasn't done or it wasn't done effectively enough. And I hope that the next Authorized or Authorized Human Rights will respond appropriately, including to parliamentary requests and appeals, by providing comprehensive information rather than just sending a copy. Thank you. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u98	Thank you. Please, Yuri. Oh, my God, Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Our parliamentary group will support the statement of mistrust by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. I'll explain why. Look, this isn't the first question, we've discussed this with you even at the TSC in peacetime. We observed this person, who, in my view, was not fully effective in carrying out her service duties. Why do I have the moral right to talk about it? Because I always read this special report from the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. I always monitor the positions and performances that are on the most pressing issue. What can I say? Which is absolutely political engagement. It would seem that the Supreme Council for Human Rights is authorized, and there is full political engagement. How does this show up? For example, the media question. We have quite often, and the Freedom of Speech Committee is looking at attacks on journalists. We have the right journalists, and we have the wrong journalists. One can be attacked, the other can't be attacked. Today, an article of the Constitution was quoted as saying that everyone has the right to protection, regardless of what political, other views. Only a court can determine who is to blame, who is not to blame. And so today we're talking about that there hasn't been a proper response in terms of attacks on journalists, attacks on our colleagues, attacks on other people who have the same protection in society from the same person, this time. One second. The same is true of times of peace when we talked to you about why we had our comments. Because we had sanctions in our society, political repression was carried out against individual politicians. There have been a number of points that are unacceptable today. Did we hear a word, though, from the Commissioner for Human Rights? None. There was no media monitoring in particular, no response to these moments. So in my opinion, people who are politically motivated and engaged do not have the moral right to take such a position. I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Ariev. Princess, Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u101	A disgraceful farce is now taking place when a coalition of former pro-Russian MPs from the pro-Russian parties and a part of the majority want to lift an ombudsman unlawfully contrary to the Constitution, contrary to Ukraine’s international obligation. What are the reasons? You've referred to the decisions of law enforcement organizations, to them? All as one law-enforcement organization have stood up for Dennis. Yes, we have a claim to it, but a huge number of people, soldiers, members of their families thank Dennis, thank the Ombudsman. All law enforcement organizations are now turning to international organizations. Do you want to join the European Union or do you want to apply? You don't just break the Constitution -- a whole series of norms and articles 55 and 64. You are violating article 18, article 85, 101 of the Constitution, freeing the Ombudsman without any reason just because you want to fight for future success. God damn it, we're praying for it. But if we break the laws and the Constitution, break international obligations to the Council of Europe, there will be no success. Who do you want to assign, where are these names? To whom should the wives and relatives of those who are in prison now be approached by those whose rights are violated? Who will take care of them? You want to dump them and forget them again? You can't vote for it, you can't break the Constitution and the law. We'll be absolutely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part four of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of War, put to the vote a motion for a mistrust of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevni, who is the result of her dismissal. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:52:56]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to issue a ruling on the outcome of our decision. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, next question. Next question, 5864. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we accept this as a basis and as a whole. But with the discussion, I understand? No discussion? Dear colleagues, we must vote first. 5864, this is a draft law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code on the establishment of a Day of Holidays – Ukrainian State Day. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:54:07]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart. We agreed, a brief discussion of who wants is recorded. And then we have to support this Presidential initiative on the basis and in general. Please don't go away. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please record any factions or groups that wish to speak. Please, Laba Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u103	Please proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u104	Thank you. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u105	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u106	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, this project continues President Zelensky's initiative, which was announced in the President's Order of 24 August on Ukrainian State Day. Regrettably, experts here have been completely ignored, and neither the Institute of History nor the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory has been added to the draft decree. The President’s decree then produced a completely artificial design of the Russian Russian Russia, which was designed by Russian historians just for the Russian empire’s possession of Russian history. The day of Statehood is Russia-Ukraine's Day of Baptism, although at the time of baptism our country has existed for over a hundred years. Today, we are asked to support this initiative with a bill that will make this day even the weekend. Thus, instead of organizing a calendar of national festivals, where, unfortunately, there are still Ukrainian religious old Soviet festivals, we bring further turmoil into it. We add the fourth to the three weekends of the summer, and so we make business more difficult, and even though in Ukraine we make economic problems more difficult on the weekends. Moreover, Statehood Day as a state holiday and a weekend less than a month before Independence Day can lead to the development of the importance of this one, the second holiday – the Independence Day, which is today the main celebration of every Ukrainian. It is July 28th that this day develops a very important festival for the Ukrainian Church — the Day of Baptism to the Russians of Ukraine — that is the day of the birth of the Ukrainian Church. Finally, this is like following Russian patterns, where Statehood Day is the main national festival in Ukraine. So please don't support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u108	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. We'll vote on the basis as a whole. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. I think it's a very important decision for our state during this period. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u109	Thank you. It is on the day of our baptism that our great ancestors made their choice, and it is perfectly logical that this is the day we are linking the creation of our Ukrainian State. Kiev will always be Kiev. And we won't let anyone steal our story. Our group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear friends, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code - Ukrainian Statehood Day (draft 5864). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:58:22]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I understand. Dear colleagues, the final piece of legislation that we will consider today, please join forces, 6070-1. This is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on technical regulation in the field of agri-industrial complex and machinery for agri-industrial complex (this is second reading). 6070. I'll find him now. Dear colleagues, we agreed that the amendments would be made by the Fatherland faction and the Trust Group. Right? "Trust" took out these amendments, I understand. The "fatherland" got it, too, didn't it? All of it. Dear colleagues, then we vote. God, thank you for your compromise. Thank you. Dear colleagues, then I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on technical regulation in the field of agri-industrial complex and machinery for agri-industrial complex in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, Bill 6070-1. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:00:15]] For 283 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u111	Colleagues, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council sign the bill as a whole without delay today. Please support the offer. I'll bet you a vote. [[15:00:45]] For 277 Decision taken. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-31-m0.u112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. We're not closing the plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of our next meeting in advance. Dear colleagues, we continue to protect our homeland together. With us is the truth, God is with us! We believe in victory, we believe in the Forces! Glory to Ukraine!
