ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our decisions: on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022, as proposed by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Dear colleagues, according to good tradition, I propose to begin work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, 32 years ago, on July 16, 1990, a landmark event took place -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine by constitutional majority of the people's deputies, with 355 votes in favour, adopted a historic document -- the Declaration on State Sovereignty. The State laid the fundamental foundation for this declaration of Ukrainian nationality. Sadly, in the 21st century, the Ukrainian people were forced to defend their sovereignty on the battlefield. By defending sovereignty, we prove that Ukrainians will not deviate from the idea of the assembly of the Ukrainian people and their lands. I'm sure we'll protect our nation from the encroachment of the Russian Federation and continue to build a sovereign, independent state. And today is the 145th day of daily terrorist rocket attacks. The recently treacherously shot down beautiful peaceful city of Winnitsa, resulting in the death of 24 of our citizens, including young children, many victims. The Occupyant carried out rocket attacks on Dniper, Odessa, Mikolayev, and other population sites of our nation. The enemy does not understand the simple truth: The Ukrainian people do not fear, the Ukrainian spirit does not break. Therefore, I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of peaceful citizens innocently killed as a result of terrorist attacks by the Russian Federation. We also honor the memory of soldiers who have fallen for Ukraine. Heroes don't die. Their eternal glory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to work. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give within 3 minutes of the opening of the day-to-day agenda for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Members of the MPs and groups who wish to speak will be invited to attend. The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy, Borzoi Irina Naumunni, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u3	Welcome to Ukraine's home, strong and invincible country! Russia is carrying out terrorist attacks on Ukrainian cities and civilians. Winnitsa, July 14th, at 10:43 p.m. Russia lost the lives of 24 peaceful Ukrainians, including three children. Dozens of people with injuries, burns, and explosive injuries in hospitals. Three Russian Calibr missiles hit Victory Square. It is a densely populated area, near a maternity home, shopping centers, public transportation, parking area for cars, residential homes, the market, and no military facilities. A solar girl named Lisa, four years old, Russian rocket took her life in the square when a child and mother went to a speech therapist. Seven - year - old Maxim was tested at a medical center at the time of the rocket attack with his mother. The boy and mother died. Eight - year - old Cyril was in a parked car, and the boy died. By the end of April, Cyril and his mother had come from occupied Herson to visit relatives in Winnica. In Winnitz, Russian troops and the political leadership of Russia became the home of officers. In fact, it's a house of culture where there was a concert hall where for many years there were tours and concerts and a house on the first floor of which was a diagnostic clinic. The officers ’ home stood in World War II and became a symbol of stability in Winnice. The barbaric behavior of Russia, which completely ignores international humanitarian law and human rights laws, must be stopped immediately. Those responsible for these crimes must be held accountable for their actions. Russia's terrorist state has to recognize the world. Today, I want to thank all those who participated in the rescue operation in Winnice. Rescuers, doctors, police, psychologists, investigators all worked as the only mechanism. We are in pain for our city, as is the pain for Butch, Irpine, Kremenchuk, Dnipro, Kramatorski, Kharkiv, Odessa, Kyiv, Sumi, Mariupol, Mikolai, and all the Ukrainian cities where Russia kills peaceful people. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of all those who died from Russian crimes, all those who died.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u4	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimenko Yulia Leonidini, the "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u5	Please pass the word to Jurchisin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u6	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! In the events that are currently taking place in Ukraine, it is important to remember what happened before full-scale Russian aggression to understand how relevant the problems that we have not yet solved, even though they can be solved by literally breaking down a single pen. On September 2, 2021, a historic meeting was held between President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine and President of the United States, Joe Biden, at which the parties agreed to ensure the appointment of the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office without delay. However sad this may be, this is still a serious decision that has not yet been implemented. And once again, the President was forced on July 17th, recently, literally yesterday, the day, to say that it is urgent to conclude the competition, that it is unknown who works on the committee, that it is unknown who until recently led the Attorney General's Office, that it is unknown that, in fact, those people who are in the Office of the President, Mr. Tatarov, are obstructing the appointment of the Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. I would very much like to hear about such things as the removal of the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, not from the evening news, but to get a report on why this is happening, an explanation of why this is happening, because, in fact, like Parliament, we are responsible for the appointment of these people. I very much hope that the next assignment will not be delayed, as was the appointment of the head of the State Bureau of Investigation, and that the acting Attorney General will not work the year he was appointed, that is, the head of the State Bureau of Investigation. 'Cause if it's even a contest. today will be the decision of the court, and tomorrow will be the decision of the competition commission to appoint the director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, not to appoint him until the Attorney-General is present, because only the Attorney-General, not the acting prosecutor, has the authority to confirm the results of the competition. So, my friends, don't play the shuttle, don't put Tatar people in positions, and finally let anti-corruption infrastructure work independently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u8	Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Future Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Parliament, like the entire country, are impressed by the latest personnel changes that await the state. We do. We understand that this can explain much about what happened and why it happened in the first months of the war, I'm talking about the surrender of Ukraine's territory, the potential surrender of Ukraine's territory, certain military failures that we had on the front and so on. So it's not just about Lee Quan Yu when the president gets rid of part of the corrupt and not just his military. Your environment, but it's also about potential treachery that we can't keep quiet during the war. I want to say that, in this case, we, as a Parliament, have to follow the entire discharge procedure provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, so we are waiting for an appropriate submission. And we will certainly be supporting these submissions in the sessional room of Ukraine. Cleansing should take place not only in the echelons of the State’s legal system but also in the Ukrainian Parliament. And I'm talking here not only about the blacksmithing, but also about those who have been actively going around Moscow in the previous years and trying to get bilateral cooperation. Today, as colored foxes, they sit still in the Ukrainian Parliament and vote with us. Because if this cleanup doesn't happen soon here in the hall, it will happen through the involvement of Ukrainian society. I am deeply convinced of that. In this case, we support the President of Ukraine, who is taking these big steps towards preserving Ukrainian statehood and his personal example shows how courageous it is to hold the high mark of Ukrainian independence, of Ukrainian sovereignty. Friends, we have important bills this week, including the preservation of natural gas tariffs that apply to every citizen of Ukraine, especially the poor, to thermal energy and hot water. And we're going to increase the revenue portion of the budget by external lending to 264 billion dollars. I would like to draw your attention, Ukrainian society, to the fact that some of the highest public service payments were among the inhabitants of the occupied territories of Ukraine, particularly the Hersonian region in recent months. This indicates that their faith and return, the liberation of these territories, are not diminishing. And we have to do everything we can to get this territory back. We're also introducing a moratorium on tariff hikes. A moratorium on the state of war and six months after it was suspended, realizing that the burden lays on the state budget, but there is no other way out. We're going to these forced steps, realizing that we have to support low-security sections of the population. That's all we've been given.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u10	The word is given to the people's MP, Scorch of Mikoli, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u11	People's MP Skork, Platform for Life and Peace. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Since February 24, when you and I voted in favour of the state of war in this room, there have been great changes in Parliament. I believe that this division of parliament for the most part and the opposition, it remains February 23rd, and after February 24, we are the Ukrainian Parliament, which makes important decisions on the military component of protecting our state and on the socio-economic protection of our citizens and the economy. When we are in the regions of our country, you can see how many questions remain. This is also the question of our movers, which now, just the internally displaced, millions, we have to answer their questions from the point of view of helping them, providing them. It's also about preparing for the heating season, and our utilities, and our housing, and our educational facilities, medical facilities, etc. It's also about protecting our crops, from the point of view of blocking our ports, from the point of view of fertilizer prices, fuel prices, final production prices for our agrarians, the ability to sell final production and the understanding of what will happen next year. It's a question of protecting our small and medium-sized business. It's a matter of rehabilitation, both our military and those who were in the zone of military conflict, civilians. This is a huge number of questions. And all of these questions are related in one way or another to expenditure from the local and state budgets. And when you hear from our economic bloc the problems that are now in terms of filling the incomes of our budget, there are a lot of questions about how we are all these issues that are facing our citizens, in terms of the socio-economic sphere, before the state as a whole, how we are going to solve them from the perspective that there are problems in the money market, there are problems from the point of view of tax and customs coming. Because we're offering? What does our group for Life and Peace propose? We suggest that we restore, in order of the day of our meetings, the time of the government. To make it possible that this communication is closed. And to really discuss these issues openly, to Parliament and to the government, because we are the Ukrainian Parliament, even during the military state, we are the parliamentary-presidential Republic and we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. It's Vadimovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Good day to you all! Indeed, we are a country of soldiers and volunteers. I thank every Ukrainian for supporting our Armed Forces and for every contribution you make. Now the Dusty Foundation is working with volunteers and doubling every bracelet donated to our army. Only recently did the powdery fund and volunteers purchase 11 Italian armored MLS S.H.I.E.L.D. First export. For the first time, the export licence for the supply of military attributes was granted to volunteers and funds from Ukraine. This really shows a high level of trust. Unfortunately, this will not be discussed in the censored news of a single marathon, which is to be understood. So when I take this opportunity, I thank everyone involved for their help from the rostrum. In addition, 350 autotel drones were shipped to the U.S.S.S.A. for days in Estonia, including drones with thermal visions for reconnaissance. It's day and night. The purchases of 42 trucks from Britain, 50 new JAC and L200 pickups, and 2.5 thousand helmets, including 3,000 vests. This week alone, $5 million of aid will be transferred across the border. We are, indeed, protecting our warriors together and helping to destroy the enemy, including me and my Hospitalier unit, for eight years now, we have continued to save lives. And now, unfortunately, we have to save a few hundred people a day. This is a very large number of wounded. And I thank every fighter of mine for what he does. There's no more important mission now than supporting our army, providing it, preparing it for counterattack and fighting together to win, because we as a nation have no other way out, and only after us must there be a victory, otherwise we'll just cease to exist. And really, taking this opportunity, there's a situation here today in the Council, which has been very surprising to me, I don't understand why other deputies don't say this right now about a man who came in military form today without having the right to do it, who didn't serve or serve. And if he is serving, why are those who support the collaborators who support Lukashenko, who, in addition to everything else in March, tried to escape from Ukraine, how can this person possibly be here in military form? Please think about it, colleagues. And let's not embarrass our military.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. After that, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and we are moving on to the day - to - day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u15	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. First of all, our group wanted to express their deep appreciation and respect for those who today defend the territorial integrity and independence of our country, who, day and night, risking their lives and health, showing real examples of courage and heroism, is carrying heavy service on the front and back to ensure the lives of Ukrainian citizens. Our respect goes to the better sons and daughters, the soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Police, the National Guard, the Border Guard, emergency services, the battalions of territorial defense, our medics and volunteers! Of course, we all look forward to a long - awaited victory. On matters of the order of the day. The "Trust" MP will undoubtedly support important bills that address national security and defence issues. 7510 is the implementation of state policy in the field of active anti-aggression in cyberspace. Let's stress, an important bill, it's about the functioning of an active system of counter-aggression in cyberspace itself. The Bills 7415, Bill 7412, are an extremely important block of legislation relating to the protection of social rights and guarantees for military personnel and members of their families. They are important both in terms of increasing the financial security of military personnel and in terms of social adaptation of veterans after injury or deterioration of health. The 7449 bill on the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons is extremely important. Bill 7436. It is also a matter of exchange of persons who refer to prisoners of war. I want to say that we welcome the beginning of the work of a special commission of the Supreme Council to deal with international humanitarian and international criminal law, because this is an important topic, an extremely large number of crimes committed by aggressors in this area. We must help the law enforcement authorities to complete the investigation and ensure that the perpetrators are punished. And to the end. The Bureau of Economic Security is starting a more active phase of work. We consider it necessary to help him do so and to convey to the Committee on Legal Protection the subject of committee knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u16	Please make the final statement instead of Julia Volodymyrovna Mikhailo Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Dear colleagues, after this we are moving on to the agenda, please invite the deputies to their workplaces. Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, your honor! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Today, there is another very important component of Ukraine's state policy, other than defence policy, which is social policy. It should be borne in mind that in the country today nearly 8 million Ukrainians have been internally displaced and nearly 5 million Ukrainian citizens have been forced to leave the country in European countries. It is important that the State remembers them. Today, we have to say that social policy has lost its verticality, where there are insufficient social workers in united communities because they are kept at the expense of the local community. It is important that the State, by guaranteeing the provision of social services in the Constitution, allocate material resources to this effect, since it does not transfer money to places by handing over authority. There is an important thing about people demobilizing from the Armed Forces and other power structures, and they now need social rehabilitation. The Ministry of Social Policy maintains eight such rehabilitation centers. Unfortunately, however, there are attempts to convert these centers into a calculated way, which may be the loss of central funding and the failure to provide full service to those citizens who, at the cost of their own health, protect the territory of our State, their integrity, and return to their homes, do not receive social services. We have to finally hear, and what is the minimum of living and how we can live on the pension of 2,000 to 200 at this level of inflation. We expect the government to finally talk about the real subsistence minimum and bring all the social payments today into line. We also have at last, as a government, whether to encourage the government to adopt the Order on the so-called consumer basket, which forms many components, or to propose other approaches. We don't hear that today. There is also a problem with the unemployment system. We expect government specific answers to specific questions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u18	Heroim Slava! Irina Volodymyrna, 30 seconds out of procedure. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, each time we meet, we honor the memory of the fallen heroes. And respect for the army in this room must begin with respect, including military uniforms. Jan Zinkewicz, of our faction, expressed indignation that there is now a man in military uniform who has no right to wear it without performing military duties. I'm sorry, General Zabrodsky is not coming into the military room. People who have now signed the same contract with the U.S.S.S.O. and the others don't come here in military form. We demand that the man, we have Kovalov in the pixel tomorrow, come and say that he is the GUR in the occupied territories? We demand that the man who came into the military room, who was kissing Lukashenko yesterday, immediately leave the hall and change his clothes. This is a requirement of our faction. This is respect for the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Now!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, as always, I propose a signal vote. I'm reminding you that the sensor button and we're voting for the "yes" green button. Dear colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues! Ready? People's deputies, please. What Is the Response?Oh, my God! What do you suggest I do?Oh, my God! You said, man heard, man must make a decision. What kind of questions do you want? You want me to take him out, or what? Again, what does it mean to react? I gave my word, the man said it, the other man heard it, everything. What questions might there be? There would be questions if I hadn't given my word, right? May I announce a successful signal vote? Thank you very much. People's deputies, please proceed to the signal vote. Take your seats and go to the vote. Stop, please, dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to step aside in order to allow a man to leave this place? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. Please hold a signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:24]] For 299 You see, Chewchenka was taken away, it would be 300. Thank you. Let's go, dear fellows, to the day-to-day issues. We can cross, can't we? Dear colleagues, the list of questions you have been given is previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. Let us go to his consideration. For your consideration, there is a question of discharge from the post of Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, article 12, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be released from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. On July 15, 2022, according to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Lazebna Marina Volodymyrovna filed with the Supreme Council of Ukraine a request to accept her resignation as Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. The relevant materials are provided electronically through SEDO. Previously, we added the following procedure: a report from the profile committee -- up to 2 minutes, statements from MPs and groups -- for 2 minutes for the performance (up to 16 minutes), for the decision-making process. Just 18 minutes. Is that the order of the day? Let's move on to the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I understand. Well, people want to say something. Let anyone not take the floor. The head is invited to the speech for the report. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakova, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights this morning, under the Order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyyovich of 15 July of this year No115606, considered the application submitted in accordance with part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by Lazebna Marina Volodymyrni of 15.07.2022 on the resignation of the Minister of Social Policy. The committee decided to agree to the release of Lázebne Marina Volodymyrovna from her post as Minister of Social Policy on her application for resignation, and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the resignation of the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine of Lázebne Marina Volodymyrovna. I would like to add that this morning, when the committee met, the members of the committee thanked Marina Volodymyrian for her leadership of the Ministry of Social Policy in the very difficult working times of the Ministry: at the beginning of 2020, the coronavirus, 2022 -- a corresponding invasion, a large-scale invasion of the aggressor. We've had to make a lot of changes before the legislation, work with the Ministry, the government, with the Office of the President, to make the legislation fit for time. I want to thank Marina Volodymyrna again. And I ask the deputies to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u22	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. I also think that we will all join in thanking Marina Lazebny for her triumphant work. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a two-minute performance from the MP factions and groups. Those who wish to speak are recorded. Please log in. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u23	Your Honor, your fellow Members, of course, the "Trust" MP refers to the Minister's statement as if with understanding, and we will support her resignation. But in turn, I would like to say that this position -- the minister of social policy -- is very important today. Who doesn't talk about what economics, finance, issues today that are related to the provision of Ukrainian troops, law enforcement and so on, they're like priority and important, but believe me, if social policy with all its components in support, the regulation today of the activities of individual population groups that need special attention, if this system doesn't work, then we can get an extremely complex, or even crisis, situation, including during the period leading up to the new heating season, when we have problems with the complexity of funding. So I'm now paying attention to the future head of this ministry and this direction that we need to work actively with the MPs, with representatives of local governments today, the territorial communities, the professional ministries in order to fully assess the situation and anticipate all the risks that will arise in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u24	Please, Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, let us thank the minister for the work she did in the most difficult times for our country. We all realize that difficult times require as much concentration as possible. And the need to strengthen the team of such a dutiful ministry is obvious. So let's move on to making decisions and less politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, Galina Ivanovna Vasilchenko, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u27	Please give my word to my colleague, Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u28	Julia Leonidina Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Of course, we can long thank the previous ministers, the existing ones, the future ones, but we do not particularly see the result. The Minister of Social Policy is one of the most important roles in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because the work of this minister applies to virtually all Ukrainian citizens, beginning with pensioners and ending with those who are to be born. Regrettably, we do not see any meaningful policies or policies regarding internally displaced persons in Ukraine caused by war. Nor do we see any program targeting people — 9 million people who have left Ukraine and 6 million who are now abroad. No program in five months of social policy was designed to bring these people back. And as a result of the survey: 65 percent of the 6 million aren't going back to Ukraine anytime soon, it's mostly young people, it's economically active people, it's children, it's our future. Therefore, dear colleagues, we will not thank the Minister of Social Policy, who has been swimming for all these years. We want the next Minister of Social Policy to have enough power to bring back fundamental social policy, to send it back to the development of families in Ukraine, and to return our six million citizens, and to create conditions that would be better for them under the conditions they now have in Poland and elsewhere. We need to get our people back, otherwise there will be no economy, no social policy, and there will be no one to fight for in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u30	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor! Now we have to take a quick look at this question. It's a coalition issue, it's determined. Therefore, our esteemed minister is a woman, and men must satisfy all the petitions and petitions of our colleagues. We ask that the new minister be nominated as soon as possible, because such a direction cannot be without the master. We vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u32	Please, Lopushansky Andry Jaroslavovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u33	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u34	Andrew Jaroslavovich, do you pass the word or refuse the word? Well, he didn't tell me anything, Irina Volodymyrna. Well, please, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" is the only faction that did not vote for any of the personnel assigned to this power. Because most of them are based, not on professional qualities, but on loyalty to the President's Office. And it's obvious that respect for Parliament requires a report from a minister who resigns from the Supreme Council, especially taking into account how long we've been discussing this resignation with you, so that it doesn't look like an escape from a ship that's under a storm. And so we are expressing our complete disagreement with what is happening today as the so-called exclusion from our positions of Attorney-General and Head of Security of Ukraine. All of this is actually done under the guise that under the terms of the state of war they've adopted changes to the law that the President can remove, but only if it's about his authority. I would like to remind you that we are here, more faithfully, you are systematically reviving Parliament, when today you do not require all the layoffs that are to take place, especially when it comes to such serious accusations with the participation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because, according to the Constitution, and this is the Basic Law of Ukraine, it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that appoints and releases the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine as well as the Minister of Social Policy, but at the request of the President of Greens, and so does Henprocuror. And that's why we demand, our faction, that all those persons to whom there are questions. And there's this version that they're all on time, these questions that we've been dealing with, not just in social politics, but with territorial integrity, with the deployment of the terrorist forces to report to Parliament, with answers to Parliament, and with Parliament not avoiding responsibility for personnel decisions. But if you'll excuse me, it's your responsibility to vote without a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u36	Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u37	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is indeed an archival issue that is being addressed today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the absence of a Prime Minister, in the absence of government members. This suggests that the Supreme Council, unfortunately too large, ceases to be the center of decision-making. We're becoming statisticians. Dear colleagues, for example, like many people, I would like to hear the report of the Minister of Social Policy on the work done. Indeed, there is something positive to say, but there are many things that the minister has failed to do. Perhaps we would have heard the problems and reasons why this happened. The fact that she did not come to Parliament tells us that she probably did not have a clear release. Because of this, it is a bad tradition for ministers to leave their posts without reporting, sorry, during an unforgivable period. Lazebna worked during the challenges of the Coronavirus, a large - scale war. Then indeed the Ministry, and these are the tens of thousands of people who work in places, who have done their duties conscientiously, they should say "thank you." And to the end. Dear colleagues, social policy is the main thing, I stress once again, after the defence sector. These things need to be brought to the attention of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is probably already on his way to retirement, since he did not come here today to explain why.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Once again, I'm asking all national deputies to take their seats. In accordance with paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of the first article of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to release Lazebne Marina Volodymyrovna from the post of Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for her resignation. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:34]] For 277 Decision taken. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision we have made with the Apparatus. Thank you, colleagues, we've completed the personnel question. Let us move on to other matters of the order of the day. As always, we have a number of issues that we are voting on without discussion, so please ask the national MPs not to disagree, there will be several. Yes, dear colleagues, Bill 7545 is a draft decree for the execution by the chiefs of the Dryzkowska, Kostinej and Slovenian City Military Administrations of the Kramator Region of the Donetsk Region of the authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:54:41]] For 310 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the implementation by the Chiefs of the Friends, Constantine and Slovenian City Military Administrations of the Kramator Region of the Donetsk Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of military status (registration number 7545). Once again, take the basis with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:29]] For 313 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next question is 7550, without discussion, we include in the agenda and shorten the deadlines for introducing alternative bills. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda of the day the draft Law on the establishment of legal and social guarantees for citizens of the Republic of Poland who are in the territory of Ukraine (registration number 7550). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:14]] For 315 Decision taken. I propose to cut the deadline for introducing alternative bills to Bill 7550. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:41]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Then we have a series of ratifications. We agreed, first, we're talking, everyone else is voting without discussion. We turn to question 0156 of the draft Law on the Ratification of the E5R Grant Agreement (the Energy Efficiency of Public Buildings Project in Ukraine) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and the Investment Grant Agreement (the Energy Efficiency of Public Buildings Project in Ukraine) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:36]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this bill. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u40	Another Romanovna Sosun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u41	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, such a decision that is now being made must be supported. Because energy efficiency is what we have declared and promised to go this way. We passed laws in this Parliament, including for energy efficiency. In principle, we have done a lot to ensure that energy efficiency as a goal of government policy in the country is working. But problems at the same time are, very serious, at the level of executive power. Look, tomorrow, and I'm sure, the whole room is looking forward to this, we're going to be looking at bills that include looking for $8 billion to buy gas to somehow go through the next winter. But at the same time, we are not doing anything to reduce the consumption of gas -- those are the things the government should be doing now. We could take steps right now to come up with a little less demand for the amount of gas we need in the next winter. But what is happening now in this direction? In short, nothing. I understand that now, in wartime, much is very difficult to do. But at the same time, the minimum steps, such as electric heating, heat pumps, are something else that we can do right now, at least in those areas that are less militarily affected by war. But unfortunately, these things aren't there, we don't see them, but we're still trying to figure out how to find money to go through this winter, instead of systematically preparing for the winter, including by reducing consumption. So, colleagues, this kind of deal is good, it's great. But let's see how they're done, because so far, we're not seeing a reduction in consumption. And unfortunately, we need to start honestly telling our voters that the next winter is going to be very difficult and, unfortunately, not even this agreement will help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u42	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u44	Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will obviously support this bill, this ratification. And we hope that the money for the energy efficiency of public buildings will be used quickly and efficiently. And this is really the approach that we would now have to apply all over the country, both to early recovery and in the future, this approach should be used to restore those buildings that were damaged by the Russian terrorist state. At the same time, we do not really have enough effective public policy to reduce the use of energy resources by Ukrainian society to date. Not the decline that Russia has brought on our businesses, our buildings, but the decline that would be promoted and realized by the government's approaches, by well-designed policies, and by decisions that could be endorsed in this room. So I'm joining those who apply to the government, come out with proposals, and immediately implement maximum energy conservation throughout Ukraine so that we can go through the next heating season more, less, sorry, painfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, I take it, Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, yes, from Fatherland? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u47	Yes. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, dear colleagues, as much as the grants did not make money, bought apartments, cottages for energy efficiency grants. During dozens and hundreds of completely empty conferences, round tables, other events, calling for and calling for energy efficiency. The question is, why isn't she moving away? How much can you do with pharisaism and vote on Saturday on the committee for the allocation of 264 billion dollars in NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" from the budget, while at the same time putting zero to energy efficiency in our budget. So this is a Pharisee we're not going to let you talk about, you little grants. And now, essentially. In 2009, a state-owned housing reform programme was adopted. There were allocated funds -- 25 billion dollars at the time -- that's $5 billion. It is through the government program that this powerful process can and should have been implemented, because any reform is made not by the slogans of empty and round tables, but by two simple things: knut and spice. Knut is supposed to work through an inspection, a police force called Sustainable Surveillance, and a system of prescriptions, a system of fines for non-preparation of energy efficiency. And the spice is really government money and government programs and, of course, the money we support in this vote. But no breakthrough is going to be done by these five million.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u48	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, a simple question. We should thank the European Investment Bank for the grant initiative. Of course, we will expect the State to monitor the efficient use of these energy savings. I call for ratification of the agreement as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u50	Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Dear colleagues, after this talk, we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u51	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Clearly, thanks to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we are one step closer to victory each day. And after winning each of you, every Ukrainian will have to take a step to rebuild and build our beautiful, charming, whole state of Ukraine. So this ratification clearly needs to be supported in the hall, so we need to conduct thermomodernization of buildings, especially of apartment buildings. In view of the fact that it will be both an energy economy that is hard to obtain and will cost, as well as an improvement in the living conditions of our Ukrainians and a closer approach to living in European standards. That's why I'm calling the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats, and I'll make you an offer. One second. I'm sorry, colleagues, because it's a bit of a decision. I propose to adopt the draft Law on the ratification of the E5R Grant Agreement (The Energy Efficiency of Public Buildings in Ukraine) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and the Investment Grant Agreement (the Energy Efficiency of Public Buildings in Ukraine) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (0156). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:47]] For 323 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Ratification of the E5R Grant Agreement (the Energy Efficiency of Public Buildings Project in Ukraine) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and the Investment Grant Agreement (the Energy Efficiency of Public Buildings Project in Ukraine) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Project 0156. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:36]] For 321 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've come to an agreement. Please don't split up. We all vote ratifications without discussion. That's why I'm making a proposal right now. One second. Guys, are we going to vote on the basis, and then on the whole, all the ratifications? Or we could just put it on a base right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're voting in general, aren't we? [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. That's why I'm putting it on the ground right now and generally with the necessary technical law. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I propose to accept as a basis and as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Belgium on the conduct of paid activities by some members of the families of fellow diplomatic representatives and consular institutions (registration No. 0137). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:59]] For 323 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept as a basis and as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Lithuania on amendments and additions to the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Lithuania on Social Security (Registration No. 0139). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:36]] For 325 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next 0153 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the paid activities of members of diplomatic and other staff of diplomatic representations and/or consular institutions. I'd like to make a proposal to take this as a basis, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments. This is Bill 0153. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:18]] For 324 Decision taken. Next bill 0105. This is a draft law on the termination of the Agreement on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters of April 15, 1994. I propose to accept as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 0105. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:56]] For 327 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next 0154. This is the draft Law on Ratification of the Amendment and the Second Amendment to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Trans-border Context. I propose to accept as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 0154. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:37]] For 323 Decision taken. Let's move on, fellows. The next proposal is not discussed either. This is the inclusion in the order of the day and the making of the decision. 7444. This is a draft law amending some laws of Ukraine to increase the control of medical leave. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. 7444. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:18]] For 302 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the strengthening of medical leave control (registration number 7444). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:47]] For 296 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7444. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:13]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is 7509. No discussion either. It's a motion for a decree to rename the Volin region of Volin district. I'm making an offer. 7509. I'll bet you an offer to put it in the order of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:47]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a proposal to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order on the Rename of the Vollin Region of Volin Region (registration number 7509). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:16]] For 327 Decision taken. Next. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Better Governance in Electronic Communications (Registration No. 7486). We agreed, too, without discussion. But first, I'd like you to include this in the agenda of the day session. 7486. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:51]] For 321 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the committee’s proposals, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving governance in the field of electronic communications (registration number 7486). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:20]] For 310 Decision taken. I propose to shorten the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Better Governance in Electronic Communications (7486). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:49]] For 267 Decision taken. Let's move on, too, with no discussion, dear colleagues, Bill 7487. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of conditions for the development and restoration of electronic communications networks. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:26]] For 316 Decision taken. I would like to make a proposal to take into account the committee's proposals, Bill 7487. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:52]] For 314 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7487. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:18]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on, next one without discussion, 7352. This is a bill amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization Training and Mobilization concerning the suspension from military service during the mobilization of scientific, scientific and pedagogical workers. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, Bill 7352. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:56]] For 323 Decision taken. Next question. I propose to adopt draft Law 7352 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:21]] For 318 Decision taken. And the final vote. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments for the preparation of Bill 7352 for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:48]] For 295 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next question to be discussed is Bill 7253. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Geographical Names Act on the decolonization of toponymy and the organization of the use of geographical names in Ukrainian locations. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[13:20:29]] For 315 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[13:20:50]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss the features of toponymy decolonization, please. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u53	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u54	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the war Ukraine is fighting against Russian invaders is primarily a war for identity, for our right not only to survive, but also to remain. After the Dignity Revolution, we took a big step towards liberating public space by clearing the country from the symbols of the communist past. But communism is just one of the kinds of Russian imperialism that continues to threaten Ukraine. It's time to take the next step and decontaminate and decolonize our public space. This process is already unfolding, it's started at the bottom, it's already unfolding all over the country, it's time to give it a legislative basis. Bill 7253, in fact, only prohibits, for the future, from assigning names that promote Russia. But by taking it as a basis, we can work out a really complex law before second reading, which is what a profile committee is proposing. We support the committee's position and we urge it to vote on the first reading. But it has to be understood that decolonization is not just about names. The President's signature month is Bill 7459 on the release of Ukraine from Russian publishing. Why is the Ukrainian Constitution, which gives 15 days to the President to sign? And according to which the President no longer has the right to promise the law and still be obliged to sign it. Procrastination is beneficial only to Russian lobbyists, and I hope the President will find out who the Russian lobbyist is in his environment at a time when Ukraine is fighting Russia. I hope the Head of State will hear us, 306 deputies, and hear the conclusion of the government, the appeal of the leading Ukrainian publishers, writers, and thousands of Ukrainians who called on him to fulfill his constitutional duty to sign this important law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, it's a very time-consuming initiative. We support the vote in the first reading. To the second reading, we ask that we extend this law to not only the use of new names, in fact, analogys or references to the aggressor country and its symbols, but also to make such a link the basis for renaming existing names. That's right: decommunization, decontamination, dislocation should be used actively. Therefore, we urge you to maintain and shorten the deadlines before filing the rights so that this issue can be dealt with quickly in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this law. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Now, one second, the national deputies will take their seats, and it's very sad not to take such a good 226-vote initiative. So let's wait a second, because there's urgent business outside the workplace. They argue in barrels about geographical names, decolonization of toponymas. Toponymy is the subject of major discussions in the towers. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Geographical Names on the Decolonization of Toponymia and the Order of the Use of Geographical Names in the People's Districts of Ukraine (Registration No. 7253). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:37]] For 253 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7253. People's deputies, please vote. Please support, we need to adopt this bill more quickly. Please support the hall, cut in half the feed. [[13:27:11]] For 231 Thank you all very much. The decision is made. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Further discussion 7415 is the draft Act amending article 16-3 of the Ukrainian Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for individual matters of appointment and payment of lump sum) (7415). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:28:04]] For 265 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. — Bill 7415. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:28:28]] For 226 Decision taken. Why are you clapping? This is 150. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovic, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u60	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u61	The "European Solidarity" faction will support Bill 7514 in the first reading with its revision to the second, in particular the reconciliation of payment terms and the expansion of the circle of persons to whom these payments are to be made to the territorial defence fighters. But with the opportunity, in the context of this and the following few bills relating to military personnel, I would like to raise a few systemic questions that require our quick response and a systematic solution. First of all, these bills themselves, which are now going to be voted on, they're all needed, they're all solving problems, but they're all very pointy. And it seems to me that in the area of security and defence with the provision of military personnel with their social security, we have to work comprehensively and work through systems to make changes, creating a normal reality, not deciding, not patching a dot's hole. The second important point is that we have a bunch of problems that are already being raised by the military. It's about expanding the numbers of people who can get paid in the event of the death of a military officer. There are calls for non-payment of salaries. But in the same way, we now have a critical situation with a future winter form that has a 25-position nomenclature, and the amount that is now being embroidered is critically small, the customs office has three weeks to clear the fabric, and the Ministry of Defense documents are not signed for several weeks. Another question is the restoration of the military-industrial complex, which is important not only for the security and defence of the Ukrainian state, but also for the relaunching of the Ukrainian economy. I know the authorities are afraid to talk about this restoration of his work, but we need to look for opportunities to provide our state. And most importantly, there should be no traitors in the highest-ranking cabinets who suspect the security services of our strong partners. So dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Jaroslav, but to Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u64	Jaroslav, but Železniak, Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u65	Mr. Head, of course you've done a bad thing. For three years, we told each other that it was 226 and that we had a secret that 150 was enough. But as for the bill, of course, we support it. There, by the way, the Constitutional Court’s decision is paid more, one-time aid if a higher qualification of invalidity is established for military and related reserves. That's why we're voting. I don't think it's necessary to discuss this for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have another performance. I ask you to invite -- two more speeches, yes -- please invite the people's deputies to the hall while we have two more speeches. I give the floor to the National Deputy Stryharsky Andry Petrovich, and then to Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. And let's move on to making a decision. Please, Andrew Petrovich Stryharsky, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u67	Good day to you all. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Anastasia Lashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u68	Please, Anastasia Lashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This bill is designed to provide additional guarantees of social protection for our military. In addition, it introduces the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families into conformity with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. What are we talking about? Current legislation provides for the possibility of payment of one - time financial assistance in the event of disability or partial loss of employment without establishing disability for military, military, or reserve personnel. It was also anticipated that its size could be revised and increased if a higher disability group or a higher percentage of the loss of employment was established during a re-examination of the disability group within two years of the disability or recognition of the disability. However, if persons with disabilities changed, for example, from third to second two years and one month later, they were no longer entitled to receive increased assistance. Such positions regarding only a two-year period for the review of the size of the previously assigned assistance to KSOs have been declared unconstitutional because they do not comply with the basic law on social protection of military personnel. In addition, the court noted that there was no scientifically established knowledge and experience of health care institutions that would show that the deterioration of the health status of military personnel could not occur after a two - year period. That is why the bill proposes to provide that the amount of pre-appointed disposable cash assistance may be reviewed and raised at any time if a higher disability group or a higher percentage of the loss of employment is established during the new inspection of military personnel, and provided that the cause of the deterioration in health was the injury sustained in the performance of military service duties. It is not possible or justly to establish the same pattern for all periods, which can worsen the health condition of each case as the individual and the distant effects of the disease are manifest in each one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u70	Thank you, Anastasia Alexyevna. Let's move on, dear fellows. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. And then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u71	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I would like to begin by thanking the author of this bill, Mr. President, because this is a good initiative, and she is indeed going to implement the Constitutional Court's decision of April 6, 2022, which establishes social justice for those who have lost their health by defending our state. It is the adoption of this bill that will allow hundreds of people who have lost their health to receive a full amount of money. The Fatherland faction supports such an initiative and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I ask all the MPs to take their seats, so let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 16-3 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for individual matters of appointment and payment of lump sum) (registration number 7415). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:36:51]] For 294 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Project 7415. Please have the people's deputies vote. [[13:37:18]] For 272 Decision taken. Let's move on, fellows. Next two bills without discussion, we vote immediately, please don't disagree. Bill 7412. This is a bill amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Workers and Members of Their Families on a system of transition from military career to civilian life. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Bill 7412. Please vote. [[13:38:00]] For-300 Decision taken. I'm making an offer. I would like to propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on the way from military career to civilian life (registration number 7412). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:37]] For 299 It's about one thing. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7412. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:06]] For 267 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft law 7464. No discussion. That's why we're voting right now. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on equal opportunities for mothers and fathers who are military personnel to take care of a child during a special period. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda. Draft law 7464. Please vote. [[13:39:44]] For-300 Decision taken. I propose to adopt draft Law 7464 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:08]] For 301 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7464. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:39]] For 278 Decision taken. Let's move on. The next one, too, is out of the question. 7481. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization to expand the number of people who are not eligible for recruitment. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:15]] For 303 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization to expand the number of people who are not eligible for recruitment (registration number 7481). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:44]] For 298 Decision taken. I'm proposing to shorten the deadline for proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill 7481 -- this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization to expand the list of people who are not eligible for recruitment. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:18]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next question with a brief discussion is 7345. This is a draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of individual powers by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting in terms of state of war. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:54]] For 246 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:43:14]] For 241 Decision taken. Please, colleagues, let's write this down: two for, two for, two for, and we'll discuss this and we'll make a decision. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, there may simply be few people in the record, and we will not be back in eight minutes, but in three minutes, so count your time. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, may I have the floor to the Prince's Santa Claus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u74	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u75	You know, colleagues, we've been working on this law for a long time on our committee. There are some positive points here, especially the law, that normalizes the situation in which the National Council is faced with military conditions, how they hold meetings, is not always able to gather. At the same time, there are a number of shortcomings in the law. During the war, for example, the Nacrad exercises because of repeated violations of certain articles of the law to send information to military commanders. But the problem is that the law does not say what military command should do with this information: shut down television channels, do not shut down how to react to them, or how they are authorized. All of this is not in the law, unfortunately. The issue of the right of the Nakrad to adopt legislation on the licensing procedure without mandatory registration at the Ministry of Justice in such cases. There's a whole series of other issues before this bill, which, as I said, has positive standards. But you know what the problem is? We are now required by the European Union to adopt the Media Law, and it is well written. But it's not bad for countries where organs like regulators are completely independent. And then you can give the regulator the right to close websites, control content. This needs to be done, especially now that we see military aggression coming and how Russian propaganda is doing much to hinder our country. But together with Nacrad being managed by hand, when we're closed by television channels, three channels are disconnected from digital broadcasting, Nacrad is not involved. We thank them, but they remain silent because they are guided. Sadly, each such bill raises the issue of freedom of speech in our country, and this is important for our membership in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u76	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Sanchenk Alexander Volodymyrovic the faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Mikita Ruslanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the representatives of all the factions who join our committee and worked together on this bill. Sorry that because of a lack of time, it could not be written so that it could be written immediately on the basis and as a whole. But we have an understanding of all the factions that have expressed the desire that amendments will be made before the second reading, and they are actually done. So the law will be good and will not pose any threats to freedom of speech, will not create any problems for the media. I'm going to stop at literally two or three of the main features of this law. First of all, we now have, unfortunately, a situation where some of our media is occupied in temporarily occupied territories, and the invaders are speaking there, covering up known brands, known names. So, of course, we can't do anything about this for the time being, but we have to send a signal, stop the operation of the licenses, there's no such possibility in the National Council. And then we have a very difficult situation in the market, a lot of the speakers can't pay the licensing congregations at the right time, and we're giving the National Council that opportunity. In short, colleagues, not to take up too much of your time, it's a law that, by the way, is also positively appreciated by civil society experts. Because certain procedures are becoming clearer and more transparent, it simplifies communication with the controller. Please support him in the first reading and we will have a real, good, effective law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace. Dear colleagues, before Nestor Ivanovich begins to speak, I would like to invite the people's deputies to the hall, because after that we are moving on to making a decision. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u79	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll say, I'm really glad that finally our colleagues from individual factions began to hurt for freedom of speech in Ukraine. Sadly, though, this question is raised only when it concerns someone specific, not the whole principle of freedom of speech in our country. But let's be honest and honest with each other, there is a war in the country, there is the practice of 1914, World War II, World War I, when everyone understood that information policy is in line with the general military strategy. Propaganda, counterpropaganda, information, misinformation, all must serve for the sake of one: victory in war. That is why we today need to understand the full responsibility of our own by adopting very complex laws that, I emphasize, have the right to act exclusively during military times. Once it's finished, the standards that are now going to be maintained should be unsettled. So I hope that the inadequacies, the doubts that are in this law will be further worked out during the preparation for the second reading, but in general this law must be accepted from the understanding that information policy is part of the overall strategy of victory in war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the specific aspects of the exercise of individual powers by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting in the context of the state of war (project No. 7345). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:51:13]] For 241 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I propose to shorten half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of individual authorizations by the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio broadcasting in terms of the state of war (registration No. 7345). Are the national MPs ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:51:52]] For 232 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next we agreed without discussion, so please do not disagree – this is the draft of the National Register of Disposal and Transfer of Pollutants Act (this is Bill 6477). I immediately propose to adopt the draft National Register of Disposal and Transfer of Pollutants Act (No. 6477) People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:37]] For 296 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6477. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:08]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the next 7510, here with the discussion. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information of Ukraine to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of active counter-aggression in cyberspace. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. 7510. Stop! One second, stop! Stop. Is he in the day-to-day? It's on, isn't it? All right, then I'm sorry. Then we vote in favour of a reduced procedure of 7510. I'm sorry. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:54:19]] For 245 Decision taken. Please sign up: two in, two in. There's no need to discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] And you want it to be wide, right? Okay, then let me ask the committee head of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, Alexander Mikhailovich Zawidnevich. And then two, and two, against that, we move on to making a decision. Alexander Mikhailovich, they want to see and hear you. That's nice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u81	Congratulations, fellows! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as of July 1, 2022, the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, at its meeting on July 15, 2022, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Information and Information Protection Service of Ukraine to ensure the formation and implementation of State policy in the field of active counter-aggression in cyberspace (registration number 7510). As stated in the explanatory note to the project, it aims to ensure that the tasks of active counter-aggression in cyberspace are properly carried out. In connection with this project, some articles of the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information are being amended and are being proposed to expand the authority of the service in the form and implementation of State policy in the field of active counterattack in cyberspace. And to anticipate the task of ensuring the functioning of an active anti-aggression system in cyberspace. The definition at the legislative level of a state body responsible for the execution of powers regarding the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of active counter-aggression in cyberspace will lay the groundwork for ensuring that cyberspace aggression is actively resisted. As a result of the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information of Ukraine on ensuring the formation and implementation of State policy in the field of active anti-aggression in cyberspace (registration – 7510), a registered committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of the bill to be adopted on the basis of the commission of the committee to finalize the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues. I beg you, let's move on to the discussion. There were three factions and groups. That's why we're voting in about five to six minutes. People's deputies please come to the hall. Ivanna Orestovna, please Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u84	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u85	Cybersecurity is the question of how to deal with it later than ever. And what we're looking at today, at last, is the question of the appointment of cybersecurity, of cybersecurity, of cybersecurity, which is a very important moment. And now we're finally going to know what kind of authority is going to do that. I hope this will work. But we have an electronic plan, so to speak, of digital dangers, another one that I'd like to point out. And which has been in the air for almost two months now, no one is giving attention to it. This is the issue of money laundering, including by Russian banks, through cryptographic exchangers. I have already recorded over 150 such cryptographic exchangers in various countries of the world, including three in Ukraine. I've proposed several times, both the BSS and the PNB, so that we can finally bring up the issue and impose sanctions against them. THE U.S.A. even caught some cryptocurricular exchange in Ukraine, but not from that list at all, and they don't touch it. I have a question, why? And now I'm trying to move it through the M.C., that's the question. It's like there's an agreement. But we're wasting our time. We're just wasting our time. And it's not just a matter of cybersecurity right now, it's a question including, because of the Russian Federation's virtual assets, using a grey, such a "cheese" gap in legislation, it washes away the funds and gets all the things that have banned sanctions. So I encourage you to act in that direction as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u86	The word is given to National Deputy Stépi Sergija Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u87	Please pass the word Fedienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u88	Fedienko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Cybersecurity issues are partially settled in our country. It's too bad some colleagues don't know that. But it's the State Information Infrastructure, the State-Criterion Infrastructure, that's what the State Security Service and the Ukrainian Security Service are doing. But unfortunately, the question is a little bit different in this bill. We have already occupied territories and there are still state information resources that we do not have physical access to. These are the resources that, unfortunately, the enemy uses to make appropriate cyber attacks already in our territory. That's why we need this bill in order to give the State Security the appropriate function to remotely, so to speak, influence these information infrastructures, this critical infrastructure that remains in occupied territory. In order to influence these infrastructures, we need this bill. And the State Department has all the appropriate technical capabilities, the personnel, and the staff to do this function in the future. So I'm asking you very much, and I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to support this bill, which is very important right now, because it's not just in the trenches, it's happening in cyberspace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u90	Please invite Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Dear colleagues, and after that, we move on to making a decision. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we can argue a lot when this law has to be passed, but we have the opportunity to adopt it right now, as I call on my fellow national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u92	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this bill and are moving on to a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Relations and Protection of Information of Ukraine on ensuring the formation and implementation of State policy in the field of active anti-aggression in cyberspace (registration number 7510). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:03:01]] For 275 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7510. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:03:30]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is not discussed. This is 7449. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons to bring individual provisions into conformity with the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I propose to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:04:17]] For 299 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons to bring individual provisions into conformity with the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine (Registration No. 7449). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:04:53]] For 298 Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons should be adopted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine (Registration No. 7449). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:05:34]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next question to be discussed is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of State and Municipal Property Objects on Water and Sewerage Enterprises (Registration No. 6060). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:14]] For 245 Decision taken. 245-yes. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, no speeches, right? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please. The word is given to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u93	Thank you. Please give Stepan Kubi the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u94	Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I would like to say that "European Solidarity" supports the proposal of a professional committee to support this bill, which provides for the transfer of free of charge from the state to the utility property of entire property complexes of water-supplying enterprises. But it could have been done much faster. At the same time, the war against the racists and the destruction of our statehood poses new challenges, the challenges of the heating season, which this year will be complex, balanced, and the Ukrainian population in the regions is not entirely predictable today in terms of quantity. A lot of homeless people come back from abroad and, above all, we have to predict the continuity of heat. The launch cannot be centralized in relation to and restore unrealized heat and water supply everywhere. We need to ask the authorities today about conducting test runs. Today we have to model boilers, water purification generators from the technical side and give those risks that are worn-out and lost systems, according to the destroyed cities in eastern Ukraine. The structure of the system of the relevant authorities and the headquarters of the risk assessment of each region and the operational programme of the heating season should function daily. Today, we need to assess and ask the Cabinet of Ministers what are the real reserves that are on the market, what are the problems and solutions to today regarding electricity, coal and the corresponding gas supply for the heating season. What a price and tariff policy that works for the benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u96	Please, Nadajchenko. That's how I understand Sergio Mikolayovich Evtushka, isn't it? Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u97	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I don't want to underestimate in any way the weight of the legislators who wrote this legislation. But at the same time, I would like to say that these are objects of state ownership. And I would very much like to have government representatives in bed right now, Minregiobud, who are responsible for housing utilities in the country. I would very much like to ask them what is the state of those businesses and those who own them, because just taking them and giving them to utilities, to local self-government, that's not going to solve anything. The reason is very simple: we need to understand how much debt there is in these enterprises. Whether a government is ready now because of a specific programme of clear dates of funding, repairs and so forth that it will allow for a normal, seamless work of both water and water companies. I can understand from my own management experience that with some optimisation of these water and water companies, maybe some economy will come up, but will it solve this issue in general, comprehensively, obviously not. We would also like to ask representatives of the local authorities where the legislators are trying to transfer these subjects. There's an Association of Ukrainian Cities, their opinion is now supposed to be dominant, they're willing to take on their balance and maintain business data or not. The Fatherland faction votes in its first reading, and we're going to continue to make the amendments that apply to both the sanitary boundaries and the sanitary zones, because this is the land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u98	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Dear colleagues, and I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, after this speech, we're making a decision on this bill. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u99	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Coltunovich Alexander
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u100	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Our group thinks that during a period of war it is not very appropriate to transfer whole assets to water and sanitation companies. The issues raised during the discussion of the draft Law on the Update of Financial Capability, and so forth, are resolved in a completely different way. If we're talking about system modernization, subsystems more specifically, water supply and sanitation, it's primarily about providing an appropriate resource base for us to transfer to local budgets, so that they can implement appropriate modernization projects and replace these systems, that's the first. One second. If we're talking about the same transmission, we also have to understand what conditions it's going to take, and we don't see this financial and economic justification. And I specifically opened an explanatory note of the added draft law, and there's no indicators there, but there's an amendment that's not going to affect it in any way. I don't agree with that, because when we pass on any infrastructure in a fairly worn-out state, and I think none of you will deny that the state of water and sanitation in the country is in an extremely debilitated state and the level of wear, in some cases, exceeds 80 percent in the country and in certain regions. I think from this point of view, it's the financial and economic justification that has to be fundamental to the transfer of these assets. That's why we're going to stay in this vote. And I also ask you not to shorten the line if you vote as a basis for us to make the right proposals, with corresponding changes in the financial indicators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u102	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. The only thing that cuts or doesn't shortens the hall is that you understand that. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Please take your seats, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of State and Municipal Property Objects on Water Management Enterprises (Registration No. 6060). We're voting on the basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:14:29]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6060. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:01]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Here we go, fellow Members, the next bill without discussion, do not leave without discussion – this is the draft Act amending section XI, paragraph 10-2, of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Enforcement of Decisions on the Requisition of Liabilities for Housing and Social Services during the War Period (registration No. 7531). I'm proposing to include the proposal to include this issue in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:15:59]] For 287 Decision taken. I propose to accept the bill based on the committee’s proposals (registration number 7531). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:16:26]] For 287 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill 7531. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:16:53]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Then we have two bills that are final for today, but this is the second reading, and the amendments will apply. People's deputies, please don't go away. That's what I understand. Can we move immediately to making a decision? I've got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikhail Mikhailovich, do you have a lot of changes there? Can we switch to a performance? Will You Place It? Bill 5125, and we're going in the day-to-day, the loan union bill (5125). Mikhailovich, two minutes, right? Three. Please, 3 minutes Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluku, and we'll go to the vote. I'll ask the national deputies not to disperse. Please, Mikhailovich, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it is regrettable that this bill was again put into the session hall, although we remember, before the great war, by February, how many discussions there were about credit unions. Thousands of people remained unprotected, who previously had a bearing on credit unions. Now there are only a few tens left in this market. To this reading, we thought that by the second reading of the redraft, the bill would be more perfect. Sadly, though, this was not what was supposed to happen. I would like to make only substantial remarks, which remain until the second reading. The bill gives the regulator, and already under the bill this is the National Bank of Ukraine, substantial discretionary powers regarding the regulation of issues related to the functioning of participants in the banking market. In particular, it is a matter of regulating additional information, documents, and explanations when issuing licences to a credit union (this is part of the third article 10). What is the simplification of doing business? Requested a credit union that is required to keep up all the time (this is part of the fifth article). Requirements for the activity of a separate branch of a credit union, whose failure is the basis for the cessation of its activity. Requirements for credit management (this is part of the third article 17). Requirements for the internal control system (this is part of the second 25th article). Required for the content and form of the recovery plan (Part Four). So this bill, if it's approved in general, will destroy those other credit unions that exist today. And I'd like the authors, the chairman, to pay attention to what the Chief Legal Authority is saying. And it's very serious that it's the bill that gives the regulator, and that's the National Bank of Ukraine, enough authority to fully transfer the market into what's called manual management. No autonomy is granted to credit unions. Moreover, there is no protection for those who still cannot afford it. "Paternity" will not vote in favour of such a bill on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you so much for the constructive discussion. Let us move on to making decisions. No one will ever put an amendment to either account or confirmation? Thank you. I therefore propose to adopt the draft Law on Credit Associations (registration number 5125) in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, are you ready? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:21:39]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, once again we can re-send to the second. If he takes off the second time, that's it, I'm sorry, he did. So I'm asking you to support this bill for re-reading. Bill 5125 is a draft law on credit unions. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:22:51]] For 234 Decision taken. And if less MPs were running, they might as well take it. Isn't that right, friends? One day, that kind of logic has to be built in us. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. It's just, honestly, sometimes, well, there's not enough anger. Lose four votes. Dear colleagues, 5161 is the final bill today. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of certain non-standard forms of employment. Mikhail Mikhailovich, you've got some repairs there, I understand, right? Three minutes, huh? Once again, three minutes Mikhailovich. And in three minutes, we're voting for everyone who's not heading to their place of work. Everybody's got it, right? Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u105	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to listen to this for one minute, because in fact the bill is worth it. This bill introduces a new special form of employment contract; this is a contract of employment with fixed working hours; the employer is given special powers not to ensure the employment of the hired worker. Labour contracts with non-fixed working hours are introduced as an alternative to civil-legal contracts. The worker will be able to combine legal work with several employers and have basic social guarantees. But what I'd like to say is that the working group had a job done, but it failed to achieve the result that the bill before the second reading was still balanced. The basic negative positions that prevent us from voting in favour of this bill. First. The employer should not provide workers with work, I repeat. The other one. If there was no need for an employee in a month, he would be paid as 32 hours ’ wages, which could be below the minimum wage. Next. Third. The worker should immediately appear on the call, and there is no minimum time limit for the message. If in the current circumstances the employer in Kiev and the hired employee in the western part of our country. He's told to show up tomorrow, how can he do that? This employment agreement may also include additional grounds for exemption. This is also a serious flaw in this bill. Julia Timoshenko and I tried to correct these fundamental flaws by filing warrants. Despite this, with all due respect to the leader of the working group, these were not counted, which prevented this bill from being balanced and protected by the rights of the hired worker when it was approved. Consider that this law during times of war will in no way protect those who today are in any way trying to have a job. Fatherland won't vote in favour of this bill and invites other deputies to support our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of certain non-standard forms of employment (project registration number 5161). Once again, take a second reading and generally with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:28:03]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Alexander Sergiyovich, please. One second, wait, give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u107	Colleagues, we suggest that we traditionally entrust the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the bills adopted today as a whole of the Supreme Council and immediately send them to the President of Ukraine for signature. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[14:28:44]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-07-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Excuse me. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. The time and place of our next meeting will be announced in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and our victory. Glory to Ukraine!
