ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President of Ukraine Vladimir Alexanderovich Zelenski participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today our video session is attended by the distinguished Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Boris Johnson. Let's say hello to him too. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I remind you that the Supreme Council works in plenary mode continuously. So today, according to our orders to organize the work of the Supreme Council under the terms of the war and to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine on February 24, 2022, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we will continue the plenary session. Dear colleagues, according to our good tradition, we are starting our work with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, it is now 69 days before the great Ukrainian people and their heroic army have given a severe blow to Russia’s full - scale armed aggression. The whole world sees the light of the vast love of the Ukrainians for their homeland, and no Russian darkness will ever be able to overcome that light. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of our fallen heroes and heroes who courageously stood up for the protection of the Ukrainian state and sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. We also honor the memory of the peaceful citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities who were innocently killed by the Russian army. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Ukrainian Parliament has the honour to listen to the video of Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The British people, at times most difficult for us and for the nations, firmly and firmly supported the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity of Ukraine, which has inspired many countries of the world with their uncompromising position on the support of our nation. The Ukrainian people are deeply grateful to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for their help in resisting the Russian aggressor. I am very pleased to invite you to the floor of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Boris Johnson.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. President Vladimir Zelensky, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, honourable Members, it is a great honor for me to address you for such an important hour in history, and I welcome your courage. You continue your sessions despite the barbaric attack on your freedom. Every day rockets and bombs, like rain, fall down on innocent people's heads in the south and east of your country. Putin continues his ridiculous, illegal campaign against the Ukrainian land. His soldiers no longer have excuses for not knowing what they are doing. They are committing war crimes and their atrocities are increasing, wherever they are running away, leaving our land -- Butcha, Gostomel, Irpine -- we are seeing traces of these atrocities, and we are doing everything we can to get them to be held accountable for these war crimes. And at this moment of still ignorance and further fear of doubt in our future, I want to send you one message. Ukraine will win! [[Applause]] Ukraine will be free! And I'll tell you why I believe in your victory. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was approached that year, and I was told that there was very much evidence that Putin was planning an attack, we saw battalion tactical groups, hundreds along the border with Ukraine, I remember feeling terrible, but also as a surprise, because I was in Kiev the previous time, and I met you before the war, I was standing in Midan, and I saw how they honor those who died, defending Ukraine against Russian aggression. And I walked the beautiful streets of your capital, and I saw enough Ukrainian will. I knew that because the Kremlin was supposed to make a terrible mistake, I knew it would be a mistake. He who has ears hears those who have eyes, he sees that Ukraine will fight, he will defend itself. However, Kremlin propaganda said that as a knife to oil, Russian military power would enter. Remember how they announced it, they also said that Mr. President was free to leave the country. He said no more, thank you. And they said you could divide Ukraine somewhere, and the government would be in London or in Poland. And now you've proved them wrong. All the military experts have prophesied that Ukraine will fall, and your peasants have captured Russian tanks with their tractors, your pensioners have gone on the road and have just spoken to their faces, in their eyes, with non-parliamentary expressions to the attackers. And also in those parts of Ukraine that are temporarily captured, your humanity is still in protest day after day, and your soldiers are three to one, always the advantage on the side of the enemy, but on the side of your brave lions is courage and loyalty to your country. And we can see that the myth of roadworthiness, of insurmountability, is blown out like smoke. Instead, it stands as a citadel, like a fortress in your country. Putin’s war machine stumbled upon Ukrainian patriotism, crossed and shattered. Your love for the country stopped them. It is an hour of glory for Ukraine that will be in the memory of future generations, and it will be told to grandchildren and great - grandchildren that the Ukrainians have taught the whole world that the brutal power of the aggressor can do nothing to the nation that has chosen freedom. They will say that the Ukrainians with their stubbornness, their victim, proved that cannons and tanks cannot suppress a nation fighting for its independence. That's why I believe and I know that Ukraine will win. You have proved that the old saying is correct — not the size of the dog weighs, but the size of the battle where the dog fights. I don't know if such an idiot is in Ukrainian, but I think you get it. The friendly forty serpents will plant. So you can see that Kiev is the capital of a state that has the victory of the 21st century, the highest height of that victory. You've shown the historical error of the roadside views when a leader relies on fear, when he cheats on elections, when he resists to play his critics, when he's surrounded by flattering dishes, he's assuming a catastrophic mistake. And this is because we understand this danger in Britain and Ukraine. It's because we're democratic countries, and we have free media, free elections, free rule, and we have healthy, strong parliaments like the Supreme Council. We see in this our most powerful safeguard against attackers, against arbitrary power. And when the autocrat is going to break these institutions, it seems like a giant to us. Someone may believe this colossus, but he sows the seeds of his own defeat, the catastrophe, because there will be a moment when he makes the worst mistake. Putin’s worst mistake was to come to Ukraine. You see now, the snags are burned in the pitiful tanks and armored machines that rule for proof of his great error. And this is the best commercial for democracy. Putin wanted to own Kiev here. But instead, I came and found out who the real masters of the country and the city were, and they accompanied me. And I know a lot about the heavy price that Ukraine has already paid and is still paying for its heroism. Today, at least one of the four Ukrainians had to leave his home. Two thirds of Ukrainian children became refugees, living somewhere outside their home or country. No one on the side can speak fully of how to resolve this conflict. Ukraine must raise its voice. There can be no compromise in the face of Vladimir Putin. We know what happened to the people who were left in this attacker's lap. We are your friends, and we need to talk very modestly about what happened in 2014. Because then the first race of foreign power to Ukraine was taken away by Crimea, then the war for Donbas began. And the truth is, we were beginning to understand too slowly what had happened. We then failed to grasp this immediately and failed to impose the necessary sanctions on Vladimir Putin, and we no longer have the right to repeat this error. And it is also because your courage, your courage, your sacrifice has enabled the Ukrainians to be masters of their own destiny. You are the masters of your future, and no one should make you think or think about the Ukrainians. We're in the UK to follow you, you lead the way, and we're your loyal friends. We're proud of that. And I am proud that our Ambassador Melinda Simmons returned to Kiev, and our embassy began to work again. In January, as Mr. Speaker of the Supreme Parliament mentioned, we sent you both anti-tank missiles, and NLAW, which have now become very popular in Kiev. And we are increasing this aid, accelerating it, working with more than a dozen countries that are supplying it to your country. We're sending a thousand tanks and armored machines. And in the coming weeks, we'll send you Brimstone (this is anti-ship missiles, missile systems) and also bulletproof machines to evacuate people from occupied areas and fenced areas to protect those who have to maintain critical infrastructure. We have a new support package: 300 million pounds, radar to determine where the artillery is, targeting your cities, drones to strengthen your infantry and your offensive forces. To provide you with weapons along with other friends of yours, give you humanitarian assistance so that we can reach our goals in order to strengthen Ukraine in such a way that no one will ever dare to touch it. Here in Great Britain, in my country, you see Ukrainian flags everywhere: on the tops of churches, in the windows of our shops, in our streets. There are many reasons why your country feels this way about the British. This conflict, which has no moral dual force, has no doubt about who has the right. You stand up against the murderous aggression of Putin, you defend your right to self-determination, against the fierce rematching of the Putinian. It's a democracy against tyranny, it's a will against oppression, it's a right against lawlessness, it's a good thing against evil. And that's why Ukraine has to win. And he's going to win. When we see the heroism of the Ukrainians, when we see their bravery and the personal courage of your leader Vladimir Zelensky, we know that Ukraine will win. And we in Ukraine will do everything we can and everything we need to get Ukraine back to being an independent, sovereign, unhindered country. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you all, and God bless you. We're with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u3	The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u4	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I want to thank the leader of Great Britain, Boris Johnson, and all of the people of the United Kingdom for the words we hear, for the actions we see, for the support we feel, for the help we are really getting, for the victory we will win together exactly. [[Applause]] On October 8, 2020, our countries became strategic partners, and on February 24, 2022, our partnership was not on paper -- our partnership in the field of battle, the battle for common ideals, the battle for a common future. For nearly ten weeks, the Russian Federation declared a full - scale war and invaded our beautiful Ukrainian land. During this time, Ukraine and Britain have traveled from partners to friends and brothers. And the one who lied, the friend and brother is the way from the neighbor to the invader and the terrorist. Is it sad? Yes. Is it scary? No, it's not. For these nearly ten weeks have proved that it is not a big deal if you have such an evil enemy, if you have such a good friend with you as Britain and leader Boris Johnson. [[Applause]] And those words, you know, are not flattery, not kindness, they're reality. We're together, we're almost there every day, every day. If we don't have a conversation today, it's just one thing: we're busy with what we agreed on yesterday. And so almost all these weeks, all this difficult time for one purpose, for one moment -- the first seconds of victory and for one era, an era of peace in Ukraine, and so in Europe, and so on throughout the world. I want to thank Britain, which with us is approaching this moment and an era that is ready to guarantee our security. And this is my thanks, it's not a formality, because I know that the guarantees of Great Britain will never be a formality for Ukraine. Because these almost ten weeks have proved your word solid, and actions are determined, without any nearness (I hate the word "almost"). Just like our interaction and the support of our British allies, above all, these are weapons and technology for our military, which protect us from Russian invaders and Ukraine, and Europe, the whole world. I'm not going to sound all the details in general, let this become an unpleasant surprise to the aggressor every day. Instead, I can speak openly about all other forms of support. It's humanity and assistance to our refugees and internally displaced persons, it's medicine, it's food, it's fast, it's fire trucks and other great humanitarian aid. It's justice and promoting the investigation of Russian Federation military crimes in Ukraine, it's stability, it's macro-financial assistance for our economy, it's cancellation of duties, it's cancelling quotas for our bilateral trade. And this is the reconstruction of our land, this is the reconstruction of Kiev and Kiev, to which Britain will join. These are important global things. Sanctions against the Russian Federation: embargo, energy supply, asset blocking. These are common, very simple human but no less important and sign, things: blue and yellow flags all over Britain: in Trafalgar Square and Downing Street, when we are supported by London, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Belfast, we are supported by Liverpool, Manchester and hundreds of other cities of this great state. When Ukraine is supported by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, by Paul McCartney, Elton John and Sting, Richard Branson, Joan Rowling, Beckham, Benedict Campbell, Queen, Pink Floyd, Deep Purple, Ed Chiran, Hugh Lori, Stephen Fry, Keith Harrington, Emilia Clarke, Daniel Radcliffe, and, of course, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. [[Applause]] That's also very important -- the return of Melinda Simmons. [[Applause]] And a recent visit by Prime Minister Johnson at a very difficult time and in a very needed moment. Our walking through the Kiev streets showed the world how the heart of Ukraine really feels, and that is pain. But the people we met there, their words, their eyes, their smiles, their gifts (by the way, already famous cocks like Borodianca) -- all of this showed the world how our Ukrainian soul feels: inviolability, inviolability, and therefore the hope of victory. [[Applause]] Today both I and our Parliament and the entire Ukrainian people can say one thing: We thank Britain, thank you, friends! [[Applause]] Just a few more words. A few words, I'm short. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, please accept that when such unity prevails in this room, it is priceless. Over the past ten weeks, I have been addressing the House of Commons, the United States Congress, the European Parliament, the Bundestag, the Knesset, the Seima, many other parliamentarians and parliaments of various states, but I have not addressed you. And it's not disdain, but it's a lot of trust. You're here, and you know exactly what's going on in our country. We are all citizens of this great state, and you know very well what to do. I believe that hasn't changed in nearly ten weeks. I'll be happy if the next one becomes obvious to you. You are the national MPs of the world's largest state, of the present, of course, you are the national deputies of Ukraine. Key words: People and Ukraine. [[Applause]] I think we'll forget anything, little things, politics until peacetime. But it's better to forget forever. The order of the day of the Supreme Council is obvious, the key word "order." [[Applause]] I don't think there's time for spam, fights and pyars, and everybody knows you. [[Applause]] I think it's important to us today that we have wise, wise rationalism and healthy nationalism. You're part of the great Ukrainian army. Your front is a legislative field on which you must work for our people, for each of us, for our nation, for our victory. Both our army and the whole country work 24/7, no weekends, no unnecessary emotions, slogans, etc. Today we have one party with you and this party is Ukraine. One faction is Ukraine. [[Applause]] We have one majority: Ukraine, one, strong, independent. And anything that doesn't help or, God forbid, worse, it hurts, weakens or splits. It's got to be, no, not in the minority, it's got to stay in the past, just like the hope of someone out there who's not here right now, staying somewhere. Now, the absence of an MP, I think, justifies only two things: his work abroad or in regions for the sake of our state or his death for the sake of the state. Another for Ukraine today is of no interest; it does not need another; it does not need another; it follows the Russian warship. [[Applause]] Last but not least, please don't waste time on unnecessary laws, there are important priorities for the state. I know you're professional people, you'll do it, the state expects it. Don't waste your time and my time and the people of Ukraine on secondary initiatives and unimportant things. It seems to me that laws should be timely, like land-leasing, suitable, like our "steel" and "bairaktor" and useful as Neptune. [[Applause]] And to bring glory as our army, and to be such that they will enter history as the people of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the President of Ukraine for his participation in the plenary session, as well as the distinguished Boris Johnson for his participation in the plenary session, his firm and powerful support for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, we take our seats, we move on to our work. Please, let's start with a nice one. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Sergey Valeriyovich Bunin, of the "Serve of the People" faction. We welcome Sergey Valeriovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we have agreed, especially that this Tuesday, before we begin our consideration of the agenda, we give three minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. An exit from the rostrum. Please, Fatherland, who's it gonna be? Julia Volodymyrna? You're an outcast. Cosmackin, please. Fatherland, Cosmackin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u7	Glory to Ukraine! Comrades, welcome to all of you! And I'd like to ask, thanks to my faction, the Fatherland faction, for giving me the opportunity as one of today's commanders of volunteer formation to express their wishes and, let's say, appeal to Parliament. Look, I asked the Defense and Intelligence Committee to consider a bill on this. or the introduction of an amendment to the "On the Basis of National Opposition" Act to allow territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of combat. What does that mean? Today, we have a voluntary formation of 120 fighters who have a higher legal education. These are the judges, the prosecutors, the law enforcement officers, the people who can clearly carry out the task of selecting explanations and statements of those crimes, the genocide that was committed in the cities freed by our Orc Armed Forces: Butcha, Gostomel, Irpine. Colleagues, this is a matter that is discussed on the committee, it's introduced, it's a draft law. I'm asking you so that mobile teams of our legal fighters can document it, where the Attorney General's Office and the National Police don't go, they can do it in those places, very far away, in the Kyiv region and in any of the cities of Ukraine. This needs to be changed to paragraph 3 of article 3 of the National Opposition Act, which is 13 points, and this is very important. I'm asking you to do this and bring this bill to the attention of 6521 today. It's important than any of them are still standing there, there are five or six projects that nobody's interested in today. And what the President has said, accept what is needed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u8	Please, Voice, Osadchuk. Rudik. Kira Ruddick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u9	Kira Ruddick, Voice Party. Colleagues, today we are going to vote on an extremely important decision -- a decree to recognize Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. It's not just a political definition, it's a clear term, a clear legal term, like a maniac, a terrorist, a murderer, a rapist, a thief. Russia needs to be recognized as a sponsor of terrorism because such are recognized by Libya, Iraq, Syria, North Korea, Iran. And Russia surpassed them in its crimes. Russia needs to be recognized as a sponsor of terrorism. It'll let her become even more toxic to the countries of the world, to anyone who even intends to help her. The sponsor of the country of terrorism is the terrorist himself. Russia needs to be recognized as a sponsor of terrorism, because these are sanctions for the supply of arms, the oil embargo, long-term economic aid sanctions that cannot and will not be removed quickly. Russia needs to be recognized as a sponsor of terrorism because it is true. And we Ukrainians have learned to speak the truth very clearly. Russia is a country sponsoring terrorism, Russia is a terrorist and has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u10	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nekludov Valentin Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u11	Dear Mr. Speaker, Your Honor Mr. Head, I ask you to give your word to my colleague Yegor Chernev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u12	Yegor Chernev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u13	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We have heard and seen a great deal today from our real partner, the real partner, the United Kingdom of Great Britain. And that's not just in words. I recently came back, literally yesterday I came back from Western Ukraine and I saw with my own eyes how we were getting heavy weapons that we had waited so long for our partners: from the United States, from the United Kingdom. And after Ramstein, after the meeting of the 40 countries that have undertaken to help Ukraine to the end, until our victory, I am absolutely confident that we will win, Ukraine will win, the Western world will win, democracy will win totalitarianism. I am absolutely sure that unfortunately we still have many trials, many more weapons in our enemy, many more soldiers in our enemy. But that weapon that we have is a new generation's weapon, and it will give us an advantage. And it's very important, and it's probably the most important thing that, apart from us, the entire civilized and Western report believes in our own victory, and so we're definitely going to win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u14	Heroic glory! The word is given to the People's Deputy to Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, faction, trust MP, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Head! People's deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! Congratulations to all of you on your Christian greetings, Christ Easter! Today, from this high rostrum from the entire "Trust" MP group, I want to thank you first, thank you to whom we are with you and everyone has the opportunity to work in their jobs. To thank our soldiers, our protectors, and our protectors, who, without fear, stand firm in defense of our homeland, in defense of our home. Today, too, we want to thank those volunteers, volunteers, and our international partners who have seen the strength of a Ukrainian soldier who, by believing in the power of the Ukrainian nation, continue to help us more and more. Today, we thank Britain, which brings us closer together to this long-awaited moment of victory, as the President of Ukraine says today. Today, we are looking forward to signing the Land-Lise Act, which will enable us to receive more and more weapons from the United States of America. Today, we thank the German Bundestag, who also approved of helping Ukraine with heavy weapons. The international definition of Russia's actions in Ukraine continues with genocide, and this is decided by the Parliament of Canada, Estonia, Latvia and other parliaments. Today, you and I have decided to appeal to the United States Congress to recognize Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. After that, the whole world will see how brutally their Russian mercenaries, the invaders, destroy our Ukrainian cities and villages, how cruel they are to the peaceful, unarmed Ukrainian population, especially women, especially by killing children. They clearly need to be recognized internationally as terrorists, and there is a clear need to reinforce sanctions against this occupying country. We believe that together today and in the coming days, each one of us, working in his place, will gradually help our soldiers and all of us will draw our Ukraine closer to this long - awaited moment of victory. Praise our Armed Forces! We believe in them, we are proud of them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u16	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, a group called Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head! A venerable Ukrainian community! A war nation and an unspeeded nation! The war that struck the world that changed this world radically. Ukraine and the world have been dealing with the harshest aggressor since World War II. These Russian bastards, who came to our land and plundered it, must be punished. Sooner or later, they were punished. And punished personally. That's why it's important to us today that we have voted in this room to cooperate with the International Criminal Court (ICC), which will allow us to find anywhere any Russian aggressor who's been trampling on Ukrainian soil. Russian expressed fascism must definitely be defeated. And we're not alone in this fight. Because the war in Ukraine is the end of the Putin regime and its followers. Regrettably, the price of the great sacrifices of the Ukrainians. The President rightly said, and we fully support the President's efforts to combat the Russian aggressor, that there is a single majority in the Ukrainian Parliament today, and this majority is called Ukraine. The correct comparison. But we would certainly like to recall once again the offer of our fellow national deputies from various factions -- and colleagues from the EC, and colleagues from the Voice, and colleagues from the People's Service -- that in such an important time for Ukraine, representatives of the Russian Peace, may not be part of the legislative work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know what fraction I'm talking about today. So I ask my colleagues from the regulatory committee, Mr. Calchenk, not to delay or divorce, but to make the right decision, firm conclusions so that this decision will not be taken for you and for us by Ukrainian society. In general, I want to thank all of our international partners today, from our "For the Future" MP group, who are not only returning to Kiev today, but they are very supportive of us, thanking Prime Minister Johnson for this fantastic support he is giving us today. I mean, we're with the world, and the world is with us. And Ukraine will definitely win. Glory to Ukraine! The glory of the nation! Badgers, you're steel! The Armed Forces of Ukraine are invincible! I thank all of us, and our great task is to stand and win this war.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u18	The word is given to National Deputy Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Speaker! Dear National Deputies! In 2014-2015, about one and a half million people left their homes and became internally displaced. About half of them settled in Donetsk, Lugansk, near their homes. Today the situation is much scarier. Today, it is estimated that 7 million people have left their homes and are in the country, and over 4 million are abroad. This is a huge problem and a huge problem for these people first of all, because they have to get a signal that they can do next. They are assisted by local authorities, assisted by volunteers, and paid off by the state. But when you communicate with them and when you ask them how you are doing, they ask the first question when they have left the shock and all the horror: What will happen next? And I'm absolutely sure that we need to move to the state and create an organ on the central body that will deal with these problems, because the complex is very large, starting with how to document the housing that's lost, starting with how to get compensation, how to get the documents lost, where to go then, where to get a job. All of this together is a colossal problem that the state can solve if it takes care of them. And I think we need to do this today and we need to build it at the central level, whether it's the Ministry of Reintegration or something, but it's not political, it's basically a humanitarian human decision that we need to make, and Parliament needs to support it. And I'm sure it'll be a very good signal for people that we haven't forgotten about them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u20	The word is given to National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of "European Solidarity". Porcelain Peter Alexiovich. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u21	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! The tenth week of war ends, which Putin, his call and the second army of the world have resolved against the sovereign, independent Ukraine, a war that they were about to win in two days. And the Armed Forces of Ukraine, created by all of us in eight years, since 2014, have destroyed this myth. Moscow was disgraced because of the low resilience of its troops and because of the war crimes of its soldiers, bandits, and barbarians. We thank Boris Johnson, a good friend of mine and a good friend of Ukraine, for the inspiring talk we have just heard. We thank you for your special assistance to the United States, President Joe Biden, for their leadership, for your decision on land-lysis as a result of your long, long-standing work together. Arms are scarce, and Ukraine is likely to grow stronger in the coming weeks. But we need even more, and let's dream about missiles that can reach not only Moscow, but Moscow. We're going to continue working with the anti-racist sanctions partners: the oil and gas embargo, the full commercial blockade, the recognition of Russia as a terrorist country, its total isolation. The sanctions must be from today not only for the Russian top, but also for the so - called deep people of the distant provinces, which is the social basis of the Gulf regime, which supports its bloody crimes and which is to share responsibility with its Fuhrer. Not only did the war take thousands and thousands of lives of Ukrainians, the war destroyed our economy, it should not just be kept floating, it should be reinstated in combat conditions: in one hand, a sword, in the other, a plow. And if land-lease becomes a reality, we're going to get Marshall's plan. We have to ensure balanced economic decisions and strict control over the use of every bracelet, dollar, euro that goes towards economic recovery. This means that it is time to return to transparent NABU-led competitions and the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, other reforms that are needed in view of the fact that we will soon become an EU candidate. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. People's deputies, please, we're moving to our work. I'm asking you to take your seats, so I'm traditionally saying that the vote is being conducted by the Ukrainian National Deputies by means of a sensory button. Dear colleagues, take your seats now. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we will conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the daytime voting. People's deputies, please take part in the signal vote, press the green "yes" button. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button and click on the green pros button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the vote, i.e. until the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Now we have, once again, a signal vote. Signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:04]] For 287 287 is a signal vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. And so, dear colleagues, we're going to have some questions that we don't have to discuss, some will be discussed, some will be discussed for a long time, so we're working. Dear colleagues, the first question is that we have a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Transboundary Effects of Industrial Accidents (registration number 0140). We agreed, this is a question we are voting on without discussion. I therefore propose to adopt the draft Law on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Transboundary Effects of Industrial Accidents (project registration number 0140). We vote for acceptance as a whole. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:57:14]] For 317 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next bill 0142. We've got it. This is a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Society, on the other hand, on Ukraine's participation in the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon Europe, and the Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy Society (2021-2025), which is complementary to the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon Europe. Dear colleagues, this is 0142. I'm asking you to consider this with a reduced procedure. [[12:58:20]] For 285 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: we give only from the Committee of Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze and after that: two for, two for, two against. And we vote. Please welcome me from the Committee of People's Deputies, Joanna Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union, at its meeting, considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, of the one part, and the European Union and European Atomic Energy Society, of the other part, on Ukraine's participation in the Framework Programme on Research and Innovation "Horizont Europe" and the Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy Society (2021-2025), a complementary to the Framework Programme on Research, Innovation "Horizontation Europe" (Registration No. 0142), submitted by the President of Ukraine, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a whole. Members of the committee came from the fact that the adoption of Ukrainian law would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for this agreement to take effect. According to the explanatory note, the implementation of the act requires budgetary funding to ensure payment of annual contributions from Ukraine for participating in the programme. And according to the agreement, Ukraine's total contribution to Horizon Europe and the Eurotome program is the sum of operating and membership contributions. The main science-expert management does not deny the possibility of adopting the project provided it is confirmed or provided that the funds necessary for its implementation are needed and available in the national budget of Ukraine. The ratification of this agreement is also supported by the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation. And that's why we think that the hall should support it, and the implementation of the agreement will have a positive impact on the creation of enabling conditions for scientific research and the commercialization of development, the development of the national innovation ecosystem and the involvement of funding for scientific and innovation projects. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. The word is Frez Irina Vasilini, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u26	Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, obviously, we call on everyone else to support the ratification of this agreement, and we understand that it allows our scientists, our students, to join a large number of new European projects. And this has to be the basis for not only getting candidate status, but it has to become the basis for us to continue to make real progress in the transformation of the country, including in the education field, in order to become a full member of the European Union. And I sincerely hope that all those people who will be involved in this project, these projects, these programs, they will proudly and respectfully raise the flag of freedom, the real values, the democracy behind which our Armed Forces stand today and around which a real Ukrainian society is now united. Because today we are fighting for a democratic world, so that we, proudly called Europeans, also prove every day that we stand on the principles of human rights, freedom of speech, the rule of law and other freedoms and values that are so important for countries that want to join the European Union, and for countries that will make up, and for Ukraine, including the bones of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u28	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bunin Sergey Valeriyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u29	Please support this question and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a wise offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose that the Committee adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Society, on the other hand, on Ukraine's participation in the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon Europe, and the Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy Society (2021-2025), complementary to the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon Europe (project No. 0142). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:29]] For 327 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. It's been accepted in general. Next, colleagues, we have a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives and the Senate of Congress of the United States of America on the recognition of Russian Federation as a sponsor of terrorism. Dear colleagues, this is the registration number of Project 7341. It needs a few votes. First, let's vote for the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the day session, we need 226 votes. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:05:20]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that we address this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:05:41]] For 285 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u31	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u32	Your opinion is on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives and the Senate of Congress of the United States of America on the recognition of the Russian Federation as a State sponsor of terrorism (registration No. 7341). Dear colleagues, on February 24, the Russian Federation began a new phase of illegal, unprovoked, undeclared war with Ukraine, which began with the illegal occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the spring of 2014. In the early days, indiscriminate damage was detected from artillery installations and aviation in the civilian areas of Ukrainian cities and villages, as evidenced by Russia’s open and insolent persecution of the Ukrainian nation and the genocide of the Ukrainian people. This new phase has become much bloodier than all previous actions by Russia against Ukraine since 2014. Contrary to the rules, the customs of war, international conventions signed by the Russian Federation, the occupying forces use cluster munitions, anti-personnel mines, and thermobaric munitions against civilians. From among the territories occupied by the Russian forces came information about the shootings of civilians, the mass rape of women, men, and children, and the creation of conditions for a deliberate humanitarian disaster. Russian troops have been trying to destroy Ukrainian citizens in every way for the support of the Russian command, using increasingly brutal methods. Russia’s aggression against Ukraine is based on Russia’s promoted national authority, a hateful neo - Nazi, chauvinist totalitarian ideology of racism. So all of the actions described fall under the definition of the U.S. Department of State as an aggressor state. Thus, the proposed draft decree is aimed at the recognition by the United States of America of the Russian Federation of a State sponsoring terrorism and imposing additional unprecedented sanctions on it. In view of the above, please support and vote on this decision. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u33	Please, from the Committee of Alexander Alexander’s Network, head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation yesterday at its meeting, discussed the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives and the Senate of Congress of the United States of America regarding the recognition of the Russian Federation as a sponsor of terrorism. By this appeal to our American colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, condemning the war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, solved on 20 February 2014 by an illegal attempt to annex the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, the temporary occupation of the territory of the separate areas of Donetsk, Lugansk and the full-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, with the application of land, sea and air forces, methods that violate the laws and customs of war with the aim of destroying Ukrainian cities and the forces and the brutal and cynical killing of civilians, including children, who have all the signs of targeted acts of terrorism against the Ukrainian people, calls on the US Congress to take the necessary steps to recognize the Russian Federation as a sponsor of the Russian Federation and the Federation of Terrorism against the Soviets. So, your honor, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy to Owl Alexander Georgiyovich, the "Serve of the People" faction. Alexander Georgievich Owl. Thank you. Next National Deputy Sinyutka Oleg Mihajlovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u36	Please pass the word powder to Petra Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u37	Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, we call for support for a draft decision that was developed by European Solidarity and signed by all, without exception, the heads of factions. When we appealed against Russia to the United Nations International Court of Justice since 2014, we found conventions that Russia had broken, that were numerous, but the main thing is financing terrorism and racial discrimination. At that time, the terrorist nature of today’s Russia was quite evident. In Ukraine, we knew this on our own, starting with the tragedy in Volnovas, the tragedy in Mariupola, the tragedy in Kharkiv, Kramatorsky, the defeat by Russian terrorists of MN17. And if the world heard us and had preceded the road atrocities in Ukraine, there would have been no massacres in Borodianca, in Irpine, in Gostomel, the worst in Butchi, and in Mariupola. Putinian Russia is not just a state that finances terrorism. Putinian Russia is a terrorist state, and it's a place on the walls of civilization. We strongly support today’s call by the Supreme Council to the countries of the civilized world to recognize Russia as a state that finances terrorism, a state that undermines the world’s principles for combating this scourge. The State, which is a terrorist and such a state, has no right to trade with the world, all the more with its weapons and dual - purpose goods. Russia's terrorist state is to become a rival with North Korea, and Putin is to a greater extent a terrorist than Usama bin Laden, and Russia is worse than IHIL and Al Qaeda. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u39	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, faction of the political party "The Voice". Clemensa Julia Leonidivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u40	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! I think today we should be considering a decree on the recognition of Russia as a State-to-terrorist and a sponsor of terrorism, because we are calling on different states to do so, but we have not yet acknowledged it. But good, even though we consider this determination and urge the world to recognize Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. Russia has been terrorizing Ukraine for eight years. It terrorizes politically by funding the pro-Russian parties and the pro-Russian movements in Ukraine, which bring us Russian peace, which we see in the Kyiv region, in Mikolayev, in Zaporozhi region and in different regions. They finance the economy by trying to implement the Russian business here, which controls infrastructure and other critical infrastructures. critical infrastructure sectors. He's trying to implement culturally, trying to implement "Russian Peace" here religiously. On all sides, he's trying to get into Ukraine. But Ukrainians, understanding the depth of this cancer tumor and realizing that Russia is and will always be our existential enemy, are fighting on all fronts. That is why today we are considering this provision. Right after that, we're going to be considering the annulment order actually on May 9th, because this is not a victory for Ukraine, this is the day that Russia is going to declare war. That's why we need to consider a decree registered by our faction regarding the imposition of sanctions on members of the Russian Orthodox Church of Cyril and the company that is actually part of the FSB and are not religious actors. So, colleagues, we call for sure support, to address all the countries of the world, but also to do and impose sanctions on themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, thank you. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. People's deputies please take their seats. We are voting in favour of this motion. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to accept, in general, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives and the Senate of the Congress of the United States of America on the recognition of the Russian Federation as a sponsor of terrorism (project number 7341). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:11]] For 344 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, the next decision is the draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's statement on the occasion of the 77th anniversary of the victory over. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll get through this. One second. Come on, let's talk to you, we've found a solution, we don't have to yell. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the occasion of the 77th anniversary of the victory over Nazism and the inadmissibility of the Russian Federation winning over Nazism" (registration number 7343). I ask you to vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:06]] For the 320. Decision taken. I ask you to vote in favour of this issue in short notice. [[13:17:26]] For 302 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the authors of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyyovich, are invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, now like 80 years ago, Ukraine is at war with a sneaky aggressor, but today it is a Putinian Russia, a state that is equally encroaching on our independence and territorial integrity, which is also trying to destroy the international security system and threaten peace and the whole of Europe, which also speaks of its exclusiveness in trying to impose its own outlook on others. The only difference is that in 1939-1945 the last century was the enemy of the Nazis, and today it's the racist version of the modern Russian version of Nazism. And this fight has been going on for more than eight years a day. Instead, the Russian Federation, which has been involved in a series of wars and war conflicts as an aggressor country for three decades, continues to commit huge amounts of war crimes and crimes against humanity, and some of them contain signs of terrorism. By doing so, the Russian Federation has lost all moral right to appeal to the legacy of victory over Nazism, because by its actions it de facto repeats Nazi thefts and defiles the memory of the exploits of veterans and participants in World War II. Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with this decree, declares that the Russian Federation's monopolization of the victory over Nazism in World War II, which has become a joint achievement of the Anti-Hitler coalition and liberation movements. The Supreme Council stresses that the crimes of the Russian Federation must be stopped and the Russian Putin regime condemned. The adoption of the project should demonstrate, at the national level, the contribution of the Ukrainian people to the joint victory of the Anti-Hitler Coalition against Nazism, and will be given political evaluation of systematic practices of disdain, distortion and manipulation by the Russian Federation of the moral heritage of participants in World War II. In view of the above, please support and vote. We have defeated Nazism, we will defeat racism. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u44	The word is given to the national deputy Poturayev Mikiti Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u45	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The meaning of this statement is very simple. The point of this statement is to make it clear that the modern Nazism, which has already received a scientific definition of racism, had no right to privatize the victory of many countries in the world, the huge Anti-Hitler coalition in World War II. The purpose of this statement is to send a powerful message to the world that Ukraine, together with all the countries that have conquered Nazism in 1945, will also conquer racism in 2022, as we all hope. The point is not to allow modern - day Nazis to rape the historical memory of civilized mankind, as they used to do in themselves in the Nazi Moscow Federation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u47	Please give the floor to the colleague Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u48	Please, Vitarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Of course, we need to talk about the contribution of Ukrainians to the fight and victory over Nazism, Ukrainians who fought in the Red Army, Ukrainians who fought in the Ukrainian rebel army, the British army, the French army, the American army. Of course, we have to fight against Russia's monopolization of victory over Nazism, because Russia is trying to hide today's crimes that are totally consistent with the crimes of the Nazis. But remember, the main instrument of monopolizing victory over Nazism from Stalin to Putin is Victory Day, May 9. It was this victory day that brought up boys born in Russia in the early 2000s, killers who killed in Butchi, who continue to kill in Mariupoli. It should be understood that this Russian instrument continues to operate in Ukraine. Remember, a few months ago, from this rostrum, they were yelling, "Get up, big country." Those who now meet Putin shouted. Those we finally called traitors were shouting. I invite you to consider Bill 7297, which foresees that Ukraine, together with Europe, will finally celebrate the Day of Victory over Nazism on May 8th, not May 9th, along with the invaders. We've already heard that the invaders will celebrate May 9th in Mariupola. They will mark it on the bones, on the ruins, in every occupied city. That is why the Baltic countries declared this day to be a mourning day, and in Ukraine it will be a national holiday. I didn't think I'd say that after February 24. But, fellows, I'm ashamed of you for this statement that we're covering up our fear of Putin, that we want this statement to distract us from the fact that Russia and I are going to celebrate the 9th of May Victory Day. We are ashamed because we lack the courage that we, the glory of God, have in the Ukrainians who defend Ukraine with weapons in our hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u50	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u51	Dear friends, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine claims that it is unacceptable for the Russian Federation to monopolize the victory over Nazism in World War II, which has become a common victory and the achievement of the Anti-Hitler coalition and the liberation movement, namely, war in conjunction with the tragedy of the nations of the world. That is why the decree is registered today. Please be supportive. And the Armed Forces of Ukraine will actually win Ukraine. We will have another date in Ukraine's history -- the date of victory over racist fascism, over the Russian war. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u52	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Bobrovska Solomija Romanovna. Pippa Nina Romanovna, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u53	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Ukrainians! Finally, this answer is ours, that we will never be in the Russian world again, but we will be in a civilized world. And this is the key that we've been carrying for so many years, unfortunately, like a cross all these years. Because the Russian Red Army did not have the Nuremberg process. And we have to do it after victory because those who behave worse like animals have to take full responsibility, because the whole world has said "never again" and only Russia on May 9 understood as "we can repeat." We are now putting at the cost of our lives, at the cost of our difficulties, and of all our children, the answer that never again, and we are looking forward to a new day of victory. I expect from this room that the next thing we're going to be voted on is the ban on the Russian Orthodox Church, which is essentially not a church, but part of the FSB. That's why we have to do this. This hall was able to vote on the Law on Cooperationism. There will be no state without strong structures. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u54	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of the draft of this decision. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the occasion of the 77th anniversary of the victory over Nazism and the inadmissibility of the Russian Federation's acquisition of victory over Nazism" (registration number 7343). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:28:19]] For 290 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next thing we know, we agreed on the next bill. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on cooperation with the International Criminal Court. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a few votes to take. First of all, 7304 requires a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the session. I need 226 votes. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:06]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:29:27]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed without a report, just two in favour, two in favour, and we vote against it. Please register as colleagues: two in favour, two in favour, against because this bill will be voted on as a basis and as a whole. Please, dear fellows. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Beerware Evgen Pavlovich, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u55	Thank you. Please pass the word to Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u56	Please, Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u57	I welcome all my colleagues! I'm asking you to vote in favour and support this bill, because cooperation with the International Criminal Court is very important to ensure that no crime against Ukrainian citizens is forgotten against our state and all the guilty are punished. Vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, the Cubans, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity. Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u59	My word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, during the previous five times, I may have been at Donbas 120 times and may have seen all the crimes of the Putin regime. But what has been revealed to all of us in Butch, Borodjanec, Irpen, is beyond the horror that Russia has created in the occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. And we are terrified to see what we can see in Mariupola. Obviously, it is important for you and me that evil be punished not only by Putin, not just by Shoigu, but by every Russian who came to Ukrainian land with weapons, who was involved in violence, murder, torture, execution of Ukrainians, rape, and punishment. So it's very important to make sacrifices. And, indeed, we now have to make these changes to the Criminal Code of Ukraine to decipher war crimes and help Ukrainian law enforcement agencies and our international partners to hold all war criminals accountable. In this context, our political power offers the same, you know, to legitimize such a "list of Butchi" to name all war criminals, and it has to be more than just military. The same responsibility for the war in Ukraine rests with all Russian propagandists and not only with the level of Skabejevo, Solovov, and so on, but with all those involved in the formation of this hate policy, which has been imposed for years on Russian society, which today supports Putin and this so - called special operation, and in fact a full - scale war in Ukraine. I want to address all of you, colleagues, to support this bill, and together we have not only to improve the Criminal Code, we have to do everything we can to fix war crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u61	The word is given to Volodymyr Yuriovich Aresonkov, a group called "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u62	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, in fact, the bill is extremely important, you know, there were very deep and professional discussions around it, and they were considering a bill from a moral point of view, because it was about applying legal norms in a very sensitive area, on the one hand, all crimes committed against the civilian population, against the military, against those who died, protecting the country, they must be punished independently of the time frame, and they must be investigated, including by international and investigators, and by expert groups, experts who, in international courts alone, can lead to a logical conclusion all charges and bring to the responsibility of those who are responsible. But the thing is, it was sensitive enough because it touched the activities of the military and our defenders and our military. That's why the "Trust" MPs worked extremely closely with the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And what I'm saying is that we had serious comments on this bill from the military. Therefore, I am pleased that we have reached consensus, that we have come to the optimum version of the bill, that our military should be protected in their actions, and that criminals will be punished. That's why the Trust MP group is calling for a vote in favour of the bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u63	Thank you. The word is given to Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! It's actually an unforgivable law, it's a law that can stop the next war, it's a law about responsibility, it's a law that everyone who committed a crime during armed aggression, starting with the rank and ending with the highest military and political leadership, has to be held accountable for the crimes committed in Ukraine. The very punishment, the punishment of the guilty, those who have solved this aggression, those who have committed the crimes directly, the punishment of these people can prevent the next disaster, the next aggression. I agree with my colleagues that what happened in Butchi and Borodianca has not been seen in Europe for the last 80 years. What is happening requires legal responsibility. This bill introduces mechanisms for the cooperation of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies with the institutions of the International Criminal Court, which, I believe, sooner or later sooner than later, will bring everyone and everyone to justice, starting with the military and ending with the highest leadership, those who have committed crimes, who have made criminal decisions, who have given criminal orders, who directly carried them out without it. If this law doesn't work, for God's sake, it can lead to very difficult consequences. So I urge everyone and everyone in this session room to support this bill on the basis and in general. And right after the end of armed aggression, after our victory, we have to move on to the ratification of the Rome Statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, this is a very important piece of legislation, please take your seats. Honorary colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court (registration number 7304), taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:04]] For 346 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, look, I've come from all the factions and groups that we can now, without discussion, immediately vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to allow territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of military (combat) action (6521). I ask again, does this confirm the reality? There's a document. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition to enable territorial defence to carry out tasks in areas of military (military) action (project registration number 6521). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:25]] For 338 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill we have is a bill. Wait a second. 7312. We also, colleagues, have agreed with you that we will consider this bill only by discussing "two-for-two-again" without a report. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we'll take it in general, of course. So, colleagues, we need to vote on a few decisions. That's why the bill. The draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act (project registration number 7312) proposes to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:40:25]] For 343 Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question. 343 in favour, decision taken. The next vote, I suggest you consider a reduced procedure. [[13:40:51]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, two in favour, two in favour of discussing this project. Then we go to the vote. Please report to the Nationals. Please, Vladimir Antonovich Watras, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the authors of this bill, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, which has brought its development together with our subcommittee and committee, I ask you to support the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Free Legal Assistance. This bill will enable us to ensure the rights of victims of criminal offences against sexual freedom and sexual immunity, torture or ill-treatment during war or armed conflict, as well as those who do not have documents to certify the person and to confirm the citizenship of Ukraine for free secondary assistance. In particular, according to the legislative act, we will be able to use free secondary assistance to the above-mentioned categories of citizens, which will enable them to receive professional assistance from professional lawyers, and for those who have lost their documents and have no opportunity to recover them, on a case-by-case basis, to receive free secondary assistance. Please support this bill. It's really important under military conditions, and it's going to help our citizens in terms of armed aggression. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national MP Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u69	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, my colleagues and I have been dealing with gender equality and violence for many years, and in fact we very much welcome this initiative, because Ukraine and the world today are shocked by the scale of sexual violence perpetrated by the invaders in Ukraine. I believe that, along with the State's efforts in international institutions to hold Russians accountable, we also have to provide adequate legal protection for people inside the country already. And the bill proposes to include in the list of subjects the right to free secondary legal assistance of victims of criminal offences against sexual freedom and sexual immunity, torture or cruel conduct during war or armed conflict, as well as those who do not have documents certifying the person and confirming the nationality of Ukraine. This is the right and necessary initiative that is really going to help establish justice and bring the responsibility of the Russian executioners closer. At the same time, I would like to refer to this room so that we do not forget that in this context it is of principle important to us as parliamentarians to protect the rule of law in a broader context, in particular to protect freedom of speech, and to stop using war to cover our mouths with opponents. This is our real country war for values, for freedom, for human rights, not for anyone else's ratings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u71	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Jurchisin, Voice faction. In fact, a very important bill, as co-author, is asked to be supported as quickly as possible. At the same time, we realize that this is just the first step. Unfortunately, because of the duration of the war and the continuation of Russian crimes, in fact genocide, we will need to expand the list of categories of persons who may claim free legal aid from the State. But the beginning is right. Please support and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. Please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u74	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, our group will vote in favour of this project. We, too, support voting in general. It is important, of course, in view of the fact that every citizen must be provided with all the necessary level of assistance, including legal ones, in difficult situations where he is subjected to an act or a crime against him. That's why the bill is important. It extends the mere list and categories of persons entitled to free secondary legal aid. But the only moment we worked, the representatives of our group, in preparing this bill, was when we failed to reconcile a few moments. For example, those who do not have documents but are entitled to help, we wanted to clarify the matter in more detail. Nevertheless, we believe that we have found agreement and consensus. So the Trust MPs will vote in favour of the bill, and we're also asking our colleagues to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies of Ukraine please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 14 of the Law on free legal assistance (registration number 7312). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:36]] For 335 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next bill 5050 and 5050-1. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Protection of the Honor and Dignity of Workers of the National Police of Ukraine, members of public formations from the protection of public order and state border and military personnel. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, two in favour, two in favour. And we vote. But first, I would like to ask you to consider this with a reduced procedure. [[13:48:23]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's do it now: two for, two for, two for. We have discussed and made decisions. Please sign up: two for, two against, colleagues. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Sergio Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u77	Sergey Alekseev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, this bill proposes to increase responsibility for the insult of police, military, persons involved in the protection of public order, since now, think of it as a fine for such an administrative offence of 51 to 119 dollars. It's just funny. This has been the norm since 1997. This is especially important now, because right now in times of trouble for Ukraine, in times of military aggression by Russia against Ukraine, when military officials, law enforcement officials, risking their lives to defend our state, it is particularly important that they be treated with respect, and in case of offenses, there is a great punishment. That's why the faction "European Solidarity" will, of course, support this bill in the first reading. There are some legal nuances, some shortcomings that can be corrected for second reading. Therefore, it is suggested that we vote for him in the first reading and then, in the second reading, vote on legal shortcomings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u79	Thank you. The word is given to John Ivanovich Krulk, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u80	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please give the floor to General Zimbaluuk Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u81	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Dear colleagues, give us a chance to get there. Dear colleagues, I apologize as Michael Mikhailovich prepares, I would like to send you to the words of the President of Ukraine who he spoke in this room, that the order of the day is primarily order. Let's keep order in the hall and give each other a chance to hear each other. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! In fact, Bill 5050-1 is extremely important at this unforgivable time for Ukraine. And the "Fatherland" team, discussing it on an expert council, decided to support it in the first reading and on the basis. This bill protects and enhances the responsibility for the honor and dignity of those who now actually protect both the borders of our nation and protects citizens in peaceful territories, carrying out their service on the roadblocks and on other subjects. The bill also applies to members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard, and also to members of voluntary wives and terrorists. These are the very categories of citizens who are newly created. And it is vital that all citizens remember that these people are protecting the state and that the state protects them. Fatherland's team will vote in favour. And to the second reading, we will introduce a few rights that will improve this bill so that it will be systematic, complete, and truly protect those who today, by risking their lives and health, protect Ukraine and peace. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u83	Heroic glory! The word is given to Volodymyr Yuriovich Aresonkov, a group called "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u84	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Mr. Head, Your Honor, the bill will be supported by our "Trust" group. The only thing I can't understand is why we can't vote on it in general today. I want to remind you that this bill in the Committee on Law Enforcement began to be considered not today, it was prepared by a group, I think experts were involved in serious matters. And all the nuances relating to protection, honor, the dignity of law enforcement officials, border guards, military personnel, and representatives of volunteer organizations were carefully worked out and written. Nevertheless, to this day we are looking only at the basis. It seems to me that, of course, we are working on the second reading, but sometimes, let's say, slowing down the pace of the adoption of the bill may be related to a certain bias in assessing the situation in actions, such as law enforcement, Nazpol's representatives and so forth. But I want to tell you, today we're in a state of war, today we're representatives of the National Police, the National Guard, they're in service and they're doing serious government tasks. Hence, every citizen, all of us, must obey their orders and commands and treat them with respect. Honor and Dignity. Clearly, then, the bill must be supported. The "Trust" MPs will do this and urge you, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u86	The chairman had just reminded, quoted the President as saying that the plan, the agenda, is first and foremost order. I'd like to quote the words in another way: and let's really deal with the questions that are on time. Now for our defenses, and I would like to mention with pride the leader and a large part of the police force of the famous city of Mariupola, the leader of the "troll" of the Vershin, who, along with the fighters of the other formations, is now holding the sky above us, keeping the Ukrainian Mariupol still in Ukrainian. But our defense attorneys are now, and unfortunately, they've been joined by police officers, who are very often abusers of their position, and they don't need this law right now. Responsibility for honor and dignity should not be different for any Ukrainian citizen. In this law, we have some kind of separation of the police. And what I want to remind you of is when the same police, not the kind that's heroically standing right now and holding the sky above us, but the kind that's parasitic in the streets, just grabbing and closing activists. This is also true in Russia, referring to increased responsibility for disobedience or resentment. Is this law in time now? No, it's not. Therefore, it cannot be accepted as a whole, as colleagues have called on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this issue, we're moving on to making a decision. People’s deputies are invited to take their seats and prepare themselves for this decision. Honorary colleagues, the committee's decision to take the basis and cut back on the 5050-1 bill. So, dear fellows, I'm proposing that you take the basis and cut in half the time of your proposal and amendment and so on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I help you? We're voting first on what the committee's decision is, if it doesn't, then we're voting second. Well, it's always been on this council. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're not talking, we're talking about it as a basis as written in the committee's decision, not as a whole. If he's taking the base, it's going to be. All of it. I got it. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to accept as a basis and shorten the deadline for proposals and amendments. You want two votes to go? Oh, you're on it. I thought you wanted 5050. Okay. Dear colleagues, then I make the first proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Protection of the Honor and Dignity of Workers of the National Police of Ukraine, members of civil society formations from the protection of public order and the state border and military personnel. I'm sorry, another name of the law, because it's 5050-1. I propose that the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Protection of the Honor and Dignity of Citizens and Law Enforcement Workers be adopted as a basis. This is Bill 5050-1. We vote acceptance as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:58:48]] For 321 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of draft bill 5050-1. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:59:19]] For 274 Decision taken. From the procedure? Please, Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, why don't we vote without the speeches and go, but there's no broadcast? It'll take 20 minutes to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u89	Mr. Geo, I'm very supportive of you. And every day we work with faction leaders and groups in the format of the Conciliation Council, I suggest that. But the decision is made as it is made. But if, colleagues, you've changed this approach, we're ready to vote in the format that the National MP has announced. But factions wave no. We can't do that, not in those days. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill is the second reading. We agreed to vote him out of discussion. This is Bill 7227. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications to improve the efficiency of electronic communications and/or military service providers. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications to improve the efficiency of the organisation of electronic communications and/or military services providers (project registration number 7227. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:01:11]] For 335 For 355. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill 7313. Dear colleagues, now, just a second, I'll find him. Dear colleagues. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices to restrict the circulation of medical devices located in the territory of the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this Bill 7313. Please vote. [[14:01:59]] For 338 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:02:19]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, perhaps without discussing it? Oh, no? All right, write it down: two in, two in, two in. Let's talk. Should I? No, we agreed that without a report, we would discuss it. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Belenjuk Jean Wensanovic, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u90	Thank you. I suggest we move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Please Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we certainly support this initiative, which will help at least part to ban and stop Russia and Belarus from earning money in Ukraine. In fact, there should be nothing Russian or Belarusian in Ukraine. And I think this is supposed to be about not only the dot things we're talking about today with drugs, but generally about blocking all trade with those barbarians who are committing crimes in our territory. We can't ask the world of sanctions with you. We can't demand the world of sanctions. And in general, any contact with Russia and the Republic of Belarus has to be cut off and shut down. What's more, I hope that after the war we'll go back to those decisions and consider why and who initiated the decision to return electricity from Russia and Belarus and many other things. And I suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine at all approve a complex decision that will finally make all this disgrace impossible, including the shame of importing Russian and Belarusian bitumen onto the roads that now Russian tanks are going to kill our citizens. That is why we certainly support and hope that the Supreme Council will not limit it, but will continue to ban the Russian Rupees in Ukraine, including the Moscow Church. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u93	Please, Rudik Kira Alexandrovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u94	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u95	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u96	In support of Geo Leros’ proposal, I propose to go to the vote and immediately vote on all other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. And I'm also going to cut in half the supply and amendment and preparation for the second reading. We vote by one vote. Dear colleagues, I ask the National Deputies to accept as a basis, to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal ones. Wait a second. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we had a little communication with our colleague. I propose to adopt and shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments and the preparation for the second reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Medical Devices on the Restrictive Circumstances of Medical Devices, which is located in the territory of the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, why do you increase the number of votes if we've voted like this before? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you don't want to cut the line. I got it. All right, let's do it in order. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on Medical Devices on the Restrictive Circumstances of Medical Devices, which is located in the Russian Federation or the Republic of Belarus (project number 7313). [[14:07:22]] For 316 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of the bill (registration number 7313), which we've just adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[2:07:49]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I just want to ask you, we work with you sometimes for a week, sometimes ten days, the final option we make at the beginning when we enter the hall, and we agree on the decision we're going to make. So I'm asking you to talk about it in time, not after we agreed. Please proceed with the procedure. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u98	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! First, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for now voting separately on decisions that we should not vote together when we are working under the Rules. I would also like to address everyone, especially the "Serve of the People" faction, and say that working under the Rules is the decision of the "Serves of the People". Because the consensus that worked for the first weeks of the Supreme Council's work then really for hours every day was the Conciliation Council, and we were sitting for 20 to 30 minutes because every letter was accepted. Now, as decided, once again, I emphasize, "The Servants of the People," we are working on the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u99	Thank you for the consensus that you always bring into this room. Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Let's move on. Please, the following Bill 7307 is a draft law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on certain issues of debt to defence and industrial enterprises – participants in the Ucrobanprom State Company and ensuring their sustainable development. Dear colleagues, I propose to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, Bill 7307. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:09:41]] For 289 Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[14:10:00]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed without a report: two-for-two-again. What's "no"? [[B in m in s a l in]] Something's not clear, is it? Well. Dear colleagues, I follow those arrangements that are on the Conciliation Council. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, please give Nina Petrovna Jujanini a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u101	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u102	Honorary Presidium, esteemed colleagues, most of Ucroborinprom's enterprises, 97 of which are enterprises located in the sub-controlled territory of Ukraine, are regulatory enterprises that have an external protective perimeter that provides an appropriate business regime. Protective internal measures are usually lacking or quite weak. And this has already shown the story of how our companies faced the problem of renters who produced similar products, which they then exported instead of their products -- the production of our defence companies. If we don't have certain fuses in this bill right now, that's just about renting property that will be physically isolated from the renting company, unless there's a clear list of leases that can actually be leased to such areas, there's a huge security and corruption risk of allowing the internal traffic of defence, technical documentation, into the internal traffic of everything that's going on in our defense companies. Without these safeguards, we cannot vote. So we're not going to support this bill in the first reading. If such alerts appear before the second reading, they can be spoken, but there is also a technical need to adjust very many points. What does it mean to pass on at wartime and for three months? How can you physically write a lease, and how can you then get rid of such a lease? I mean, experience is completely unlearned. Instead, the government should use such instruments and instruments that are in its hands — that is, the government’s defense order.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Danilo Alexanderovich the Gethtmans, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u104	Please pass the word Zavávnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u105	Zavodnievich Alexander Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u106	Congratulations, fellows! Thank you, Danilo. Of course, Mrs. Jujanina's remarks are relevant, so in the committee's decision, we said this: Bill on the basis. There are also some comments on our committee, so I invite you to work together. Let's make some adjustments, and we'll take a look. But in general. It's a very nice initiative. There are many examples now of enterprises that actually have both experience and expertise and expertise in some types of weapons or technology. And this procedure, unfortunately, so it was prescribed, renting takes a very large amount of time that we unfortunately don't have with you. We need victory as soon as possible. So please support the law as a basis. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the patriotic issues ended, the skins began. Well, okay, so we have built, unfortunately, the work of the Supreme Council these last days. I just want to address all the deputies, because I have no doubt that each of you firmly believe that Ucroborprom is Ukrainian, where weapons are produced for Ukraine, is the heart of our defense, the heart of our strength. This is essentially going to be one of the most powerful ways of developing our economy and our national security, our resilience. Ucrobanprom can't be embalmed, can't be sold, can't do anything about it. We should, on the other hand, strengthen and gather all the power. However, this law provides that Ucroborprom objects can be transferred free of charge to private entities. You can rent without any specialization in this direction. Well, dear friends, well, there can't be that during the war the Supreme Council voted in favour of such laws, it's against our national interests. And that's why I'm asking you to vote against and not to impose such laws, but instead to legislate on strengthening the Ucrobanprom, on financing, on proper structure and on providing Ukraine with its own weapons. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u109	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimenko Yulia Leonidini, the "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we will uphold this law as a basis. But I want to tell you, this law is made up of one paragraph, but it's written in such a way that it actually has to be rewritten. So we're certainly going to be filing and rewriting it for a second reading, so that it fits other laws and is harmonized with the rental of state property that we accepted with you, I remind you, two weeks ago of the sessional, for all state-owned enterprises the accelerated rental procedure. The same must be done with Ucroborprom. But what I want to tell you is that you want to see a bill on the development of Ucroborprom and start at least with the construction and production of ammunition, shells, the repair of armor, tanks. We're actually buying everything overseas with you. So the main bill should be on the development of the economy through military production, through an Israeli model that is essentially going to pull our economy that is now suffering from war. So let's not give up, the main priority should be not renting Ucrobanprom's power, but repairing the production of all the technology, developing our own production of Ucrobanprom, and then putting the extra space into lease. Because without the government's defense order and our own production, we won't win this war or the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer. So let's take the base and let's do it. Can we go together this time? Turn around, yeah? Okay. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex – participants in the Ucroprom State Company and ensuring their sustainable development (project registration number 7307). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:18:40]] For 285 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of Bill 7307. Dear colleagues, please vote. We've already moved on to the second one. [[14:19:05]] For 272 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Let's move on. Then we have the second reading going on. Dear colleagues, there was an agreement, I want to confirm it again, 7172-1 we vote without discussion. Nobody makes any changes, right? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prohibition of political parties (registration number 7172-1). Yes, dear colleagues? Please vote. [[14:20:02]] For 330. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Alexander Sergiyovich, a brief announcement and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, according to article 60, prime. 1 I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the Interfractional Union "Strategic Force of Ukraine". Headquarters of this union, Žmerenecki Aleksy Sergiyyovich and Upper Victoria Valentinovna. And in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, according to the decision of the deputy faction of the political party "Slut of the People" I report that the political party "Slut of the People" has been expelled from the MP's party "Slut of the People" of Ukraine by Kovalov Aleksija Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the next Bill 7269, is a second reading. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status on the functioning of local self-government during the period of military status (second reading). No discussion, eh, dear colleagues? Will Someone Make Repairs? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I just asked. I tried. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, they'll bet a lot. I understand that "European Solidarity" will put it. What kind of faction are we going to put? One vote. "Paternality" is also the law. All edits or.? Everyone, yes. I see. Well, then let's go after this, let's go after what we have, the ones that I've got that I've got that I've got that I've got that's rejected. Four. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna. Will you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, we are now approaching the adoption of rights to a very conceptual bill. This refers to the basis of democracy in Ukraine, which is local self-government. We all report that during wartime, there must certainly be sufficiently clear vertical control systems during wartime. And we support the introduction of military administrations, giving them very serious powers. But at the same time today, the question arises, How do military administrations and local authorities work together? This is so that we do not destroy local self - government as such by adopting these laws. I'm running out of time for this. I'm asking you to support her. I'll do the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the 4th Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:23:12]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 13th, Cymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u116	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the 13th Amendment, we propose that we complete chapter I of the bill with such a new paragraph. Paragraph 1 of the third article 4 reads as follows: "The military administrations of the population except the city of Kiev are formed in one or more inhabited areas, villages, cities where rural, rural or urban councils or their executive bodies do not exercise the constitutionally imposed and authorized laws, including, in effect, self-refoulement or self-refoulement from the exercise of their powers, or their actual non-execution or termination of their powers under the law." Then this bill, if approved, will be whole - souled and will serve as a support for local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the amendment number 13 of the national MP of Cimbaluk has been rejected. Please identify and vote. [[14:24:53]] For 111 The decision is not taken. I wanted to ask you, you'll even be the ones that are partially accounted for, Arthur Volodymyrovich, right? Okay. Then I'm sorry, they're just not marked, I'll be right back. Seven, Alekseyev. Partially counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u118	Honorary colleagues, 7 states that the authority of local self - government authorities extends not only to populated areas but also to surrounding areas that together form territories of the territorial communities. It is also important to provide for the appointment of the head of the military administration of a settlement, a village, a city head. I insist on taking full account. Please place this item on the full screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, 7th Amendment. It's partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. The committee wants it to remain partially accounted for. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[2:26:02]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Next 8th, Gerasimov. Partially counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I will demand full consideration of this bill. But I'd like to say the following. There are 53 laws, which are well known by colleagues from the People's Service and colleagues from other factions, and for some reason they are not now signed by the President's Office. That is why we now have 69 Laws, which we are currently considering, 7269. This law, frankly, if in two words, is about the construction of North Korea in Ukraine. You know, it's not what the military are fighting for right now, it's not for usurpation of power here, it's not for this law to cover up corruption. Because, you know, there's this clear realization that the district, the city, the district councils are getting away from making decisions with one goal: calming down the costs that our international partners and the taxpayers will spend on the reconstruction of this country. That's why we should refer to this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u121	8 Amendment of the People's Deputy Gerasimov. It's partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[14:27:33]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. 15th. Batenko. Excuse me. 14th, Kabachenko. 14th. Kabachenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u122	Vladimir Kabachenko "The Fatherland". Colleagues, it's very important. At present, there is no need to deprive elected deputies and the heads of the community of places where there is no active fighting. If the bill is adopted by the proposed committee, the capital will be deprived of the right to exercise self-government functions given both by the Constitution and by legislation, because, at the time of the war, all powers, whether they are in occupied territory or not, are passed on to military administrations. Such a rule paralyses the activity of local self - government and disrupts the already well - established efficient work. Edit 14 requests for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u123	The 14th Amendment of the Cabachenka People’s Deputy, the Committee proposes to reject. Please identify and vote. [[14:28:50]] For 118 The decision is not taken. 15th Amendment, Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u124	Thank you. Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, the essence of this amendment, like many other amendments, is to prevent, for example, from depriving settlements such as the city of Kiev, a city of the territorial significance of the right to local self - government. And we're all in favour of having the district councils remain in their power, and we're hoping that the majority will understand, and a number of amendments will then, I take it, bet on confirmation. I would suggest at all that a number of amendments be put to the confirmation now, and then the logic is taken off, while putting to the vote a number of amendments that I'm going to make and a number of other colleagues. Please put to the vote Amendment No 15. And then you can go to confirm a number of amendments so you can save time in the session room right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, amendment number 15, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:00]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Please 16th Aleksiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, there is nothing in this law that says that the city of Kiev is the capital of Ukraine and has a separate status. And the Constitution of Ukraine is fixed as a separate administrative and territorial unit and is governed by the Capital Act. In general, the law does not provide for the city of Kiev. Therefore, by law number 16 I ask that the city of Kiev be excluded from this law so that the law does not extend to the city of Kiev. Thank you for your attention. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u127	The 16th Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Alekseiv, was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:31:00]] For 122 The decision is not taken. 18th. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I would like to continue that our team certainly supports the work of military administrations, but the concept of this law would have to be such that only where part-occupied or occupied territory or if, for example, local self-governance has been dissolved or self-sustained, only in this case transfer the authority of local self-government to military administrations. The same law provides for an entirely different situation that the military administration will be able to take over the authority of local self-government, including in those communities where there is no military action today, no aggression, no occupation, no communities living peacefully and working, but this law alone in such communities will also be able to prevent functions, budgets and transfer to military administrations. This cannot be done, this law is conceptually unacceptable. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u129	18 Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:32:30.]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. 21st. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u130	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, you know, this is the European Charter of Local Self-Government, it was adopted under the auspices of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe, not to be confused with the Council of the European Union. And it was opened for signature by the member states of the Council of Europe on October 15, 85, and for Ukraine it became effective on January 1, 1998. So the decentralization of power, the application of the principle of subsidiarity, is the main idea of this charter. And this is the first document of a kind that guarantees compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. Now, attention: The higher administrative authorities should solve specific problems only if their resolution by the local authorities is ineffective or impossible. That's why this bill, it's not about helping people, it's about usurping power, it's about destroying local self-government, and it's about corruption. Edited please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u131	21th Amendment of People's Deputy Gerasimov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:54]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 23rd, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, in favour of this bill, each must make an internal decision for himself: do you want Ukraine to live, develop, work local self-government or do you not want it to work? No one rejects war. Where there is a war, where there are real threats to the existence of system leadership, please don't mind if war administrations do whatever it takes. This right here is that in all the territories we have now our local heads are obliged for 24 hours under any circumstances to inform the military administration of what they have accepted or what they are about to accept. Well, dear friends, well, that's quite contrary to the charters of local self-government, and generally the autonomy of the local communities in the peaceful part of the territory of Ukraine. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u133	Yes, Your Honor, 23rd draft of National Deputy Timoshenko. Please identify and vote. She's been rejected by the committee. [[14:35:25]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Is it cool? Ivan Ivanovich, 24, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u134	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, you know, when Russian aggression began against Ukraine, it was the right decision that drafts in the session hall were adopted by consensus to unite the session hall rather than to unify it. I don't understand why we've now come up with these controversial bills that essentially divide not only the hall, but they're such anti-personnel mines against local self-government, because in fact local councils are without any authority. And you know, when the city heads decide on a single budget question, how they want it, whether they want to solve the land issue, how they want it, we have very creative city heads who will benefit from it, not to build local self-government, there are different cases. Thus, there is the principle of restraint and opposition when the local council makes decisions and the city’s head signs them. And where there is no war, local self - rule has to work properly, it doesn't have to be destroyed right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the 24th Amendment of People's Deputy Krulka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:56]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Next bill. Next, I'm sorry, Amendment 25. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. Head. Today many quoted the President's speech, so the President said: let's not adopt laws that are not necessary right now. What is the need to deprive local authorities of their authority, especially in areas where active fighting is not taking place? Absolutely not. In addition, we have two cities, according to the Ukrainian Constitution, with special status, namely the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. Kiev has a third specification, Kiev is a capital city that performs specific functions. Therefore, if necessary, if the enemy returns to the siege of Kiev and there is a need for the military administration to function here, there should be a specific feature for the city, which is special, according to the Constitution has special status and is the capital of Ukraine. That's exactly what Amendment 25 is about. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u137	25th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:26]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Amendment 27. Alekseus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u138	It is not clear why military administrations should assume the functions of local governments, local councils, district councils, city councils in places where no active fighting is taking place, places that are now living almost normal lives, almost, and completely capable of managing local self - government in cities, villages, communities, and so forth. And number 27, please consider, it also refers to the separate status of the city of Kiev as the capital. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the 27th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Alekseiv. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:44]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 29, Princely. Don't you insist? You insist. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill foresees that the head receives virtually exclusive powers of council. In deciding on the implementation of such powers, the head should only inform the head of the military civilian administration for 24 hours, but the bill does not establish any other safeguards to determine the legality, justification and non-abuse. In fact, in cities where the situation is stable and controlled, appropriate authorizations can be used to harm the community for the purpose of freeing specific individuals, assigning them their own, and making favorable contracts. The amendment proposes to limit the scope of such decisions, namely, by making changes to the local budget necessary for the implementation of the military regime by military command or by the appropriate military administration on the basis of the request of military command or administration. Colleagues, please support. We're not building a corrupt dictatorship, we're protecting the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u141	29 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Knieżick. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:12]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Next 30. Blue.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u142	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We have achieved great resistance to the enemy and have won our resistance to the aggressor by the unity of our society. Today's proposed bill actually excludes tens of thousands (I want to emphasize, not even thousands, but tens of thousands) of local council members who are legally elected to represent their communities. Which, regardless of political preferences, have united to protect the country on the collision line and to support the state, to support the Ukraine’s Armed Forces in the back. Today, depriving these deputies of the opportunity to represent the will of the communities is wrong and is harmful. In this way we will act contrary to the unity of society that has taken place today. Please support the amendment and do not take over the authority of the local council.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u143	30 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Sinyutka. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:42:38]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 33 revisions. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u144	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear colleagues! Do you know what the adoption of this law means? This means that the Servant of the People and the majority don't trust any of their deputies of the local council. So just read the texts that you're producing right now. You think the district councils, district councils, and city councils can't trust them, so you have to suspend their mandate and then, if you'll excuse me, stop or give these powers to the mayors. I feel that this is not true and that is why this law is harmful today. Just look at it. Because if the powers of district councils are suspended, for example, throughout Ukraine, even where there is no active fighting, well, I don't think that's true. The 53rd Law prescribed a normal edition, where we clearly wrote that only in the case of the capture or surrounding of the administrative center of the area. Why is this done now?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u145	33 Amendment of the People's Deputy Gerasimov. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:44:06]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Amendment 34, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u146	I want to contact my colleagues at the "Serve of the People" faction. Tell me, well, honestly, do you really think that in those areas where there are no active combat actions to be taken to the district councils, to the OTG councils, to the heads of OTG, to take the authority and hand over to the military administrations? Is that really what you think? Do you think that Ukraine, which today supports the whole world as a democratic European country, can take and kill local self-government by law? Do you feel that our local self - government authorities are not helpful enough to the terror, our volunteering? They're helping and they're all with us today. Do not touch the authority of local authorities in areas where there is no fighting. And keep the paperwork, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u147	34 Amendment of People’s Deputies Timoshenko It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:34]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next 35. Blue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! With this draft law, we take the authority of the local councils to administer the budget and transfer it to the one-managed administration of the heads of the urban, rural, and rural united territorial communities. Please tell me, is there at least the only precedent for today in Ukraine when no decision has been made on the proposal and the need to allocate funds to the country's defence, to help the territorial communities, to allocate funds to equip refugees? I'll tell you, there are no such precedents for today. When we take over from the collective authority and hand over the question of how to solve the funds, we're going through potential corruption. I'm sure you can't go that way. So I ask you to support this amendment and not allow corruption in our society.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u149	Amendment 35 of the People's Chamber of Blues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[2:47:02]] For-97 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 38. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u150	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! We're going to Europe, right? We are now filling in a questionnaire on becoming a country or a candidate for membership in the European Union. And it's not easy to say in the local self-government charter that local self-government is one of the basic foundations of democratic society. The existence of local self - government authorities with real powers can ensure an effective and close relationship with a government citizen. We do not object to the establishment of military administrations where this is really necessary. It's really necessary on the front line. This is really necessary in areas affected by Russian aggression that need to be strengthened or mined or infrastructure restored. But there's a very simple question: what is the purpose you want to do this all over the country? The answer is obvious. I'm going to repeat it tens and hundreds of times today. It's corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u151	38. Amendment of the People's Deputy Gerasimov. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:29]] For 105 The decision is not taken. 39th. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, this law has several ways of depriving the local self - government of its functions, powers, rights, freedoms. First. This is usurpation by the military administrations of all powers of local self - government. But there is a second part here where the head of the local self - government body that is elected can do anything without a decision of the council. Amendment 39 gives him the right without counsel, without a decision of the council, to create the structures of the executive organs, to find out the totality, to form the executive structures as he pleases, and much more. But the main thing is that there's no "temporary" word. This can be viewed practically on a permanent basis. And that's definitely unacceptable. And so I'm asking you both to support the bill, and for the law, this is not to vote under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the 39th Amendment of Timoshenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:00]] For-98 The decision is not taken. 40th. Blue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The decision to create military administrations was a justifiable step and needed to move the country to the defense of the rails to make rapid and necessary decisions. But this bill deprives us of the authority of the district council and deprives us of the authority of the district councils in those areas that are far from the war zone today. We're not ruling out the councils that are on the collision line or the occupation that would be right, and we're minimizing and depriving the community's representation of all the district councils, all the district councils that are far behind the collision line. I find that inappropriate, and I suggest that we reject such a rule in the bill. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u155	40 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Sinyutka. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:24]] For-103 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 42. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u156	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, especially the Majorists of the "Serve of the People" faction, I have repeated and repeated this bill of mistrust to your own local council members. Because if you read his standards, that's exactly what he looks like. But do you know what is also important to consider, especially today when we are fighting an aggressor? Very rightly today, many Ukrainians are writing that little Russia will never win, only a great Ukraine will win. And today, you know, remember how in the early 2000s Putin destroyed local self-government in Russia, and that was part of creating that dictatorship and creating that aggressive state that had attacked Ukraine since the 14th year. That's why we don't have to do this in our country, we don't have to build Belarus here today, Russia or North Korea, because only the great Ukraine wins the aggressor.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u157	The 42th Amendment of Gerasim was rejected by the Committee. Please vote. [[14:52:54]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 43rd. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I think we have a very historic time with you now when we are preparing special papers from Ukraine on the accession to the European Union. And there we have to make it clear that we meet those standards, those requirements that each country essentially needs to have in order to join the European Union. If it starts now with absolutely nothing in areas where there is no active military activity, cleaning up local self-government, practically levelling all the functions of deputies, heads and so on, how will we fill these documents with you before we join the European Union, when no one understands and does not understand? And that's why I'm asking you not to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u159	43 Amendment of People’s Deputies Timoshenko The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:54:23]] For-93 The decision is not taken. 44th, Brainy. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Next 48th. Is he insisting? Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill allows the community to delegate authority to local self - government authorities by its own decision. So this allows the head to give all powers to the local council to self-organize the population. Since the Professional Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine does not provide for a list of which powers can and cannot be transferred, it will actually be possible to transfer all powers to the incomprehensible organs of self-organization of the population. So I propose that this rule be excluded from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u161	44th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Razumkova. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:31]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Next 48th. Gerasimov, please. Excuse me, Blue Girl, 45th. Yeah, 45th, Blue. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! This bill provides for the mandate of the executive committees of the unified territorial communities to transfer from council to the mandate of the head of the united territorial community, and this proposal is not understood. Because there are no operational decisions to ensure that the decision is not implemented, and there is no other authority. And it is so impressive that the heads of a united territorial community delegate these powers to create a pocket - minded executive committee that will make decisions that will mainly shape the areas of construction, the areas of land relations, and those areas where community control is precisely needed. Therefore, I find such a draft decision wrong, and I ask that I support my ruling so as not to delegate such powers to the one-headed people of the united territorial community.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u163	45 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Sinyutka, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:05]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Next, 48th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u164	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, if we're going to Europe, the destruction of local self-government, and the law about this, that's just a request to read. You know, cooperation is very serious during the first weeks of the war between all factions just because all factions read all the laws carefully, and that's why normal decisions were taken on the way out. Therefore, the destruction of local self-government will definitely not help us to continue to be a democratic state, to continue to be a state worthy of membership in the European Union and to become a member of the European Union. And you know, I'd like to say that next to how television channels were closed and freedom of speech was limited, this law, this bill is still very much in doubt about the real purpose of Ukrainian power today. So I ask you to support the draft, and the bill is read and not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u165	The 48th Amendment of Gerasim was rejected by the Committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:35]] For-96 The decision is not taken. 49 repairs, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u166	Dear friends, and this is where not only the foundations of local self-government are being violated, but also essentially the basis for the allocation of budgetary resources, because here in section 1, paragraph 1, of section I of the bill, paragraph 4 of part 4 of article 9 provides that when the military administration assumes all powers of the local authorities, the financing of the military administration will be made from local budgets. This simply contradicts the logic of building public finances in general. Because functions such as the functioning of the military administration can only be financed by the state budget and in no way by the local government. How do you even put that in here? In the local budget, there's just every single one of them there, there's not enough of them, and here they're going to take money to finance the military administration. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u167	49 Amendment, National Deputy Timoshenko The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:00:06]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 50 repairs. Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u168	Colleagues, this whole bill could be compromised if you agree with the logic that we have territorial communities that are under the occupation zone in the occupation zone, and where fighting is taking place, on the one hand, and all other communities that live a peaceful life. And for those communities, write clearly for those communities that live a peaceful life, that they have the right to make changes to the local budgets needed to implement the state of war, and so on, and so on, and so on. Unfortunately, the committee went on to do this, and we have to spend time now, because there are more pressing problems, and put these amendments to the vote. I have been asked to support this logic, and the issue of the bill will be solved and we can then vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u169	Let me get this straight, I'll give it to the committee. Please, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u170	Yes, Taras Ivanovich, I support the logic you're talking about. Actually, it's about the revisions that apply to district councils, and the difference between first and second readings. We've talked about this before, like 412ths and 416ths, 426ths and 29ths, which extend to all the district councils, we want to break into the hall and stay in the first reading, when it only spreads in the area where the temporary occupation or the surrounding area is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the only one, if such an explanation is perceived and there is a compromise, can we take it into account? Because we don't want to jump from the right to the right. If everyone supports it, we could do it then. Taras Ivanovich, a replica. You've been mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Vitalia, that's the logic. Only if you can be specific about the status of the city of Kiev, how much does your explanation extend to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u173	Please, Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u174	This explanation does not extend to the status of the city of Kiev. You know that. These are corrections that apply to, in fact, district councils. We've already been through the city of Kiev, and we can keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u175	Thank you. There's no need for a 50th vote, is there, Taras Ivanovich? Let's move on then. 51st, Brainy. Will you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u176	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. In fact, the project foresees that the head of the community can make the necessary changes to the local budget to implement the legal regime. Regrettably, the bill does not define what is allowed to do within such proposals, which may lead to ineffective use of community funds. Therefore, it is suggested that this should not be supported and that it should be more clearly defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor. Do you insist on voting, Dmitri Alexanderovich? You insist. 51 Correction of Reasons. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:03:37]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, was it Taras Ivanovich Batenka's suggestion that if we now vote on the amendments that create the inadmissibility, can we stop the discussion? Will we continue to walk? Next up, your honors say they're going to move on, so let's move on. Blue, 52nd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u178	Indeed, the transfer of powers from district councils to military administrations only in the area of combat would be an acceptable compromise in this bill. But I have a question in this context to the reporter. Please tell me, do I understand correctly that this will also apply to the united territorial communities that are located only in the zone of combat or are surrounded? And all these things that relate to the transfer of powers from council to the heads of OTG, with the approval of the head of the military administration, will not apply to those areas that are in the rear and which are not in the zone of combat?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u179	Thank you, Your Honor. 52 Amendment of the Blues. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. Please. [[15:05:05]] For 101 The decision is not taken. 55th, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u180	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Once again, no one is against military administrations where it is really necessary, where it is necessary to organize the defense of the state. But, you know, in the first days of the war, it was the self-organization of the population that saved the situation in many locations, the self-organization of the population. And the driving force was very often the members of the local councils themselves. And where it worked, where they were able to organize the territorial defenses because of the local authorities, there was a much better situation than where we couldn't do it. And to kill local self-government, as this law says today, I find it fundamentally unfaithful. And besides, let's not forget that right now this bill on its lap is going to be amended by some kind of correction. You can't do that, it's a system bill, if you want it, but it's not just about local self-government, it's about non-constitutional powers of branches of power, there's a lot of other corruption. So I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the 55th Amendment of Gerasimov. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:06:35]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 58th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u182	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, long before the Charter of Local Self-Government there was this city of Magdeburg, if you know, there was, by the way, since the ninth century. And, remember, since the ninth century, our city of Kiev has been the capital of Russia. Moscow was founded, if I am not mistaken, in XII, 1147. Thus, Magdeburg law has been found in many cities in Ukraine. And guess where he wasn't, where he was. That's right: Russia. No city, if I'm right. As for Ukraine, this is Lviv (1237), Kyiv (from 1494), Luck (1287), Kamyanec Podilski, Žitomir, Hmelnicki, Preyaslav, Borispil, Gostomel. And that makes us different from the aggressor country. And in general, from the countries of dictatorship. And today this bill moves forward to the creation of a dictatorship in Ukraine in the form and, let's say, in disguise.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the 58th Amendment of Gerasimov. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:08:05]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 60. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u184	I'll keep it simple. And you know, as far as the law of Magdeburg is concerned, that's the key to what it did. Well, let's just hear it, that's our story with you. The implementation of the Magdeburg Law in Ukrainian lands, primarily protecting the urban population from the claims of royal governors and large landowners and creating favourable conditions for the development of trade and trade. That's where the middle class came in. And this is the guarantee of the normal existence of the state, and this was the guarantee of creating a normal local self-government. Today you want to destroy it. So once again, as far as the amendment is concerned, the request is for support. This bill is by no means to be voted on today. What's more, once again, it's today's collective saltwater of all the bad things that I'm going to talk about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u185	60 amendment of the People's Deputy Gerasimov. It's rejected. Please identify and vote. [[15:09:18]] For-93 The decision is not taken. 62nd. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u186	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Now about the bad things that are in this bill. I've already said that he, his main goal, is to destroy local self-government. We have now heard that they want to counter the amendments that apply to district councils. The simple question is: Who put them there? I don't have another word. Do you want the Supreme Council to come together and beat them down? You know that. Today, the president of Ukraine was speaking from this rostrum about not spending time or imposing unnecessary laws. Fixing them and beating them up isn't too much? Look, it's a mess. And as for other things, you know, they're trying to get the government's co-op right now. Companionship. What else do they want to do in this law? So I'm going to say it, and I'm going to say it over and over again, and I'm going to say it over and over again. First of all, this bill on corruption, please don't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u187	62 amendment, People's Deputy Gerasimov. Declined by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:10:45.]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 64th, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u188	Thank you. And you know, another important moment. We have already mentioned that this bill sets very many standards that are unacceptable to our democratic country, which is a candidate for accession to the EU and who today is fighting an aggressor for the liberation of his territory. But there's another question about how it's all written. Like what? You're saying today that the military administration of the post is headed by a chief who is appointed to the post and is relieved of office as President of Ukraine at the suggestion of the Genstaba Armed Forces of Ukraine or an appropriate government. We can accept that. But have you considered that the number of positions you have placed on Genstab, who is now at war, imposes separate powers on individual military administrations if there is no military administration in the area? Even in these details, we can see how unprofessional this bill is. And that's its difference from 53rd. I'm asking you to support the draft. The bill doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u189	64th Amendment, People's Deputy Gerasimov. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[15:12:15]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 66th, Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u190	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please tell me, part of the fourth article of this bill, as drafted by this draft, that during the period of the military state of the country, the village, the city head, in whose territory there is no fighting, I underline (a large number of my colleagues have spoken about this today) and that no decision has been taken to establish a military administration in a settlement with mandatory information from the commander of the relevant district military administration, can carry out a single-personal range of powers conferred by article 26 of the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to the powers of the local council. And in general, they thought that this legal norm would restrict the competence of rural, rural and urban councils, which, among other things, exercise their powers under the Constitution, I emphasize, Ukraine? It's not just a violation of the Constitution, but, again, it's a mistrust, a mistrust today by the majority and the President's Office, because I'm sure it was written by this law to its own representatives in the city councils. So why choose them if you don't trust them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u191	Yeah, 66th Gerasimov. The committee turned her down. Please Identify and Vote [[15:13:44]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 68th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u192	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. So once again, we're talking about today limiting the competence of rural, rural and urban councils in areas where they don't work, I'm stressing combat. Now, attention, I can tell you that rural and rural councils are exercising their powers under the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, particularly the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. And these are the rules that do not correspond to article 7 of the Constitution, for in Ukraine local self - government is recognized and guaranteed, and in the first part of article 44, where local self - government bodies within the limits of the powers recognized by law make decisions that are required to be implemented in the respective territory. And this inadequacy of the Constitution of Ukraine is unacceptable. So even once again, the question of what's in this law is in this law of North Korea. The question of how it's written is how it's written down by anti-corruption rules. Thank you. Edited please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u193	68. Amendment of the People's Deputy Gerasimov. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:15:17]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 70. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u194	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I've already said that in addition to the main goal of destroying local self-government, and, frankly, after that, I want to examine in detail the list of all those who will vote for it. And you know, I think it's just going to have to be brought to every village, every town and every local council MP who's going to vote in this Supreme Council Hall for destroying local self-government in Ukraine. Because you know when North Korea is being built or Belarus is being built, or little Russia, the next step is the destruction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And by the way, what I'm going to tell you is how today, for example, the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being highlighted, something tells me that the next step after local self-government is going to be exactly the destruction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a sense. So I would like to say that there are many other things that are bad in this law. I've already talked about the compatibility of government officials. And this norm, I think, is going to be taken seriously by colleagues today, too. But there are also functions that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, the 70th Amendment of Gerasimov. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:16:46]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next. 74th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u196	So part of it, I've already said that non-proper functions are given to certain branches of power, and again illegal. So if you want to do that already, what's stopping you from doing it legally? Thus, part two of article 11 of the draft law proposes that the President of Ukraine, during the war period, may decide to withdraw from the office of official, to serve and to be relieved of his office and to appoint another person for an appropriate period of service. It's the right thing to do. That's what you might have to do. But why is this done in an unconstitutional way? Because the Constitution of Ukraine does not empower the President of Ukraine to decide on the removal of officials from positions. So tell me, please, why are all these standards prescribed so freely, even those that, from my point of view, should even be accepted? That's why the law doesn't support the request.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u197	74 Gerasimov's repair. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:18:14]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 76, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u198	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let us continue to talk about the salting of the corrupt desires laid down in this bill. For example, are you aware that one of the elements in this law today is allowed to adopt legal acts by local authorities without carrying them out through Minnesota and to verify their compliance with legislation, even after the martial law has been repealed? Why would you tell me that? We had once stopped such a corrupt norm when it was just during the work of consensus that we stopped the norm when we wanted to sign leases during the war period for 100, 200, 300 years. Stop it. But why leave this rule here in the law? I'm just demonstrating to you that this law isn't just about killing local self-government, this bill about corruption. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u199	76 Gerasim repairs. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[15:19:40]] For-93 The decision is not taken. 78th, Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u200	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. And I'd just like to go on with the last item. These proposed changes to part of article 9 are precisely about what can be done without Minsk and without any scrutiny there, they establish that during the period of the war the requirements of legislation for the adoption and promulgation of legislation do not extend to the local authorities of civil and military administrations and their officials. You know, part of it, of course, we understand that those are related to security and defence. But it's not written about security and defence. This is an excellent example for you to prepare a lot of money, and it's corrupt, no advice, no district councils for a given minute, no district councils, no OTG councils, no city councils. And then even the publicizing of these decisions stops. I'm just explaining what was written in this law. Which is why it was written, I don't think, by the faction "The Servant of the Nation," because the faction wrote 53 laws and it's normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u201	78 Gerasimov's repair. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:21:08]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 80th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u202	We continue to talk about things that are unacceptable. I'm just demonstrating, and I want them to just listen. I'm going to repeat it because I can see that there's a lot of discussion going on between personal and personal issues, but the law is too serious. I'm asking them to hear it anyway. So the bill proposes that the head of the military administration be given full powers of local councils, and the new part of the second part of article 10 determines that the head of the military administration shall exercise all powers of local councils without any restrictions, without any reference to military action. This is a very important moment: without any connection to the state of war. We agreed that it was overwhelming where active fighting was taking place, where replacements were needed, where reconstruction was needed. But please tell me, why do you need this, for example, at Zakarpatta? It's a very simple question. Why is that in French? Why would you do that in Ternopolska? Why is this necessary in Lviv? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u203	80 of Gerasimov's amendment, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:22:36]] For-95 The decision is not taken. 82 revisions, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u204	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I go on, I have a lot more, you know, I read a lot of laws very carefully, you know. And among other things, I am grateful to the colleague of Bezgin and his colleague Zavávněvích, and to his colleague Jonah, for the number of laws I have read in these two months of war in person. So in this bill, he proposes to establish an additional basis for the actual removal of urban heads in places where no fighting takes place and where local self-government authorities can function fully. You know, when we talked about any billing standards in the first weeks of the war, I always asked, and what's the ultimate goal, what is the ultimate goal of one norm or another? And with that in mind, we've prescribed these standards. This, for example, resulted in a rule that would end the authority of the district council if the district’s administrative center was captured or surrounded. Because the goal was not to allow, for example, events that could theoretically have happened in the Hersonian region, although I am grateful for the deception that made a very important decision about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u205	82 Amendment of Gerasimov, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:24:06]] For-96 The decision is not taken. 84th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u206	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I'll just keep going, so I want to understand, honestly, from the committee's ultimate goal of this norm, where you're proposing exactly where there's no fighting going on, there's additional grounds for actually removing the city heads. Once again, it may be true that if the city’s head is breaking there, it does not help the army, it does not help the territorial defense. But once again, it's not just about what, it's about how. For example, the changes to part six of article 9 suggest the formation of military administrations by removing selected local heads in case of (attention!) the existence of a violation during the implementation of the powers. First of all, there's no violation of exactly what. Do you realize what's here now? It says that if, for example, during the exercise of his authority, the head has crossed the street into a red light in the area of this inhabited area, a military administration is created. That's a formal thing to say here. Once again, that's the question before it's written.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u207	84th Amendment, Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:25:33]] For-93 The decision is not taken. 86 revisions, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u208	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. First of all, I would like to say why we're looking at a bill in the second reading, in which there's a lot of rules, you just have to change, because they're written as a minimum unprofessional, read the conclusions of the GNEU and the legal administration. There are many standards, so to speak, not denied, but denied the way in which they were written. And what's most interesting is that I'm most confident that those committee deputies who read this law, lawyers, they understand how bony it is right now. And that's except that this bill destroys local self-government. I won't get tired of doing it again. And even if you throw out the papers today, as Vitaly Bezgin said today, regarding the district councils, let's not forget that the city -- no, they stay, the district -- okay, this can still be discussed, because we know that we have administrative reform, even though it's going wrong. But the bill can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u209	86 Amendment of Gerasimov, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:26:59]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 88th, Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u210	Thank you, colleagues. Now, let's go back to other bad things, for example, coexistence. You know, once again, today we really want to become a candidate country in the European Union, with a real prospect of becoming a member of the European Union. But what do you want to convert this bill into almost half of anti-corruption legislation? Because as soon as you put in a code of coexistence for government officials. Do you even know what you're doing? In general, I can see who missed these amendments, how the committee voted, and how did these amendments appear in this bill? That's why, colleagues, you can't use your left hand to say and do everything you can to go to Europe, and your right hand to do everything you can to become a small Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u211	88 revisions, Gerasimov. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:28:20]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 90. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u212	Let us go back to the bad things of this bill. So the bill proposes to give the city's, the country's, the village's head without it. I repeat, without the control of the relevant council, this is an important moment, to actually make any agreements that should agree with the local council, but without agreeing with them. And now, attention! - Are you ready? And in doing so, you can actually put the contract on any deadline. I mean, do you even understand what free cash you're trying to create right now? Well, listen, for centuries local self-government, generally the principles of local self-government, the principles of balance and opposition, have been created not only by the mayor or the head of the village council, but by the appropriate council that controls these processes. A certain process of how decisions are made through appropriate local councils. And today you're offering it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u213	Amendment of 90 People's Deputies Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:29:49]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 92 revisions. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u214	Thank you, colleagues. Once again, I know that there are live broadcasts of our session and international agencies, including, and you know, it's very sad to tell me right now what we're doing today, not in Europe, but from Europe. Well, how can you do that? How can we do so today and bring this bill into a hall that is not merely a divisive society today but a reflection of the mistrust of all the local deputies today, but of their own population? Are you going to take your weapons to the terrorists today? It's also an element of the same chain of mistrust of its own population. Listen, Ukrainian people, they pulled this war out of the first day, the Ukrainian army pulled this war out of the first day. What are you doing now? And I'm going to keep talking about these contracts. You know, and the question is, not just for any period, but also for what issues. On the other hand, it's a wide circle, to be honest. Now in the next amendment, I'm going to continue this explanation, but just so you know, once again, the name of this bill is corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u215	92 of Gerasimov's repairs. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:31:18]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 94 revisions, Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u216	Thank you. I'm continuing on these famous contracts that we are. Well, I get it, they want to disburse international funds, so, frankly, "European solidarity" will require that every penny of that money, either from taxpayers' money or from international aid from our partners, be under strict control, under strict control. Because we're about to be exposed to grand theft before the war. What is it, then, that the proposed revision of part 8 of article 9 empowers the head to make agreements on matters defined in parts four and five of this article without agreement with the council? What is involved in the agreements that are set out in the article is not yet clear. Yeah, maybe that's the goal: how do you roll the sink so that no one after, let's say, could get hurt? Dear colleagues, I understand, of course, that without proper advice, without its approval, without control, without proper follow-up of the decision of the appropriate council to steal is easier. But maybe you shouldn't do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u217	94 of Gerasimov's repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:32:43]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 96, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u218	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let's move on to the next one. You know, honestly, I think the President's office has already collected all the hotels. Well, for example, how did the bill come into existence as the head of the military administration for, frankly, cleaning up the MAFs? I understand that where there's military action, I understand that, because there's a city to be prepared for defense, there's a quick, urgent decision to make, and now, how do you want to make this combination: first remove the city council from making decisions, and then specifically give the law to the appropriate head of the military administration, for example, which you want to appoint in Lviv, or in Ternopolish, or in Frankish, with the matter of cleaning up the MAFs? Don't you understand what you're doing here? I just have a question: who is the author of this norm, who gave it to you? Once again, the name of this bill is corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u219	96 Herasimov's amendment, it's rejected. Please identify and vote. [[15:34:08]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 98th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u220	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. When we go back to the essence of this bill, once again, I would like to say that when we talked to our colleagues in the "Servant of the Nation" faction, the Bill of the 53rd is a famous one, that's why constructive cooperation was always going on, and it wasn't just the faction's representatives, that's where Mr. Malemyak and Mr. Nemchinov participated, that is, they were the only team that worked together. But the goal of the end was to do everything for that purpose. I realize this may not be interesting, but given what I'm seeing in this bill right now, I clearly understand that the goal is not what you are. is not a key priority, and the purpose of this bill is not to protect the state. Here's the key. Because you're hiding it. Well, it's a great cynicism, covering up the protection of the state, covering up what's going on today's aggression, going to war, doing corruption and destroying local self-government. Keep going the other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u221	Thank you. 98 revisions, Gerasimov. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[15:35:34]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 100, Jubilee, Herasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u222	Well, if I'm not mistaken, we're all 559, so basically, we have a lot of work ahead of us. And there are confirmation papers, Ruslan Alexiyovich, let's not forget. Part of him wants to be called "The Servant of the People," no questions asked. So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, the key target. If you read this bill, honestly, it's made up of two such major parts. First. This is the construction of North Korea in Ukraine. Look, today the whole world is helping us as a democratic country. A democratic country. What does the authorities do today? Closes the channels with opposition. Closes, closes. The authorities today are trying to destroy local self - government. I'd like to remind you who pulled COVID in the first few weeks when the authorities told us everything was okay. Who helped prepare cities in the early days? This is local government. You also want to destroy local self - government. And the ultimate goal, the ultimate goal, is clearly not to support local self-government. And the final goal is to build a small Russia in Ukraine. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u223	100 amendments to the People's Deputies of Gerasimov. Declined. Please identify and vote. [[15:37:04]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 101st, Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, please note that the head of the committee who is currently reporting this law and conducting discussions on the rights, he said that this law provides that only for occupied territories or partially occupied areas or where military actions are going, there will be military administrations having special powers without local self-government. But when you were asked the question, logically, whether the military administration would be taken from Kiev, you said no. This means that this law, when you explain to your deputies, is totally not in line with the concept that you have declared. This means that it will be full self - government and wherever war administrations will be created for their taste. And that's why this law is essentially another step towards absoluteizing power.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, number 101 of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:38:37]] For-86 The decision is not taken. 102nd Blue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u226	Dear Mr. Head, I ask that the reporter answer the question that has already been asked. Because all of these changes that we are currently discussing relate to areas where no fighting is taking place and where district councils are headed, where the leaders of the united territorial communities can work on a regular basis. We have just heard that compromise and the right decision will be left to the district councils. I have a question for the reporter, and, Mr. Head, I very much ask you to get an answer. Whether it would be true that united communities in areas where no active fighting is taking place would retain all authority and would not be handed over to either the heads of OTG or the heads of military administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u227	A brief committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u228	See, first, the bill does not restrict the powers of local self-government to the basic level, if we're talking about rural, rural, urban councils. Indeed, there are a list of seven points where these powers for the duration of the state of war are proposed to be passed on to the heads of the community so that they can actually be approved by one person. The reason, I think, is understood. Even if we now take territories where no fighting is taking place, there are a large number of local council deputies who have left the territory of Ukraine, they are women, and there are problems with the quorum. In addition, there are a large number of communities where most or a large number of local council members are representatives of the pro-Russian parties. Accordingly, it is not possible for communities to make decisions that affect, for example, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because as far as communities are concerned, the central authority does not claim to have them, but we believe that some of these powers should be passed on to the heads of the communities for the duration of the state of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u229	102. The amendment of the People's Chamber of Synythetics was rejected by the committee. We've heard the position. Please identify and vote. [[15:40:58]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 103rd. Cool, please. Don't you insist? He insists. Please. Don't insist. Next 104, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u230	Thank you, Mr. Head. I reiterate, even during the war, even during the functioning of state institutions during the state of war, we must abide, at least not in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and international obligations. The international commitments of Ukraine that regulate local self-government are the Charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government. As far as the Constitution is concerned, the Constitution clearly defines two cities as cities with special status: the city of Kiev and the city of Sevastopol. And that's why in Kiev, the military administration should have a special function, and it shouldn't be the same as in a small town, it doesn't play the role where, in Western Ukraine, in Eastern Ukraine or anywhere else. The capital is a specific city, it is a specific region, and therefore there must be a special order for the establishment of a military state and possible functioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u231	104 Vlasenka's amendment, it's rejected. The committee remains in its position. Please identify and vote. [[15:42:43]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 106. Alekseus, please correct 106.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, even in the title of this law regarding the functioning of local self - government during the war period. That is, by the logic of this law, if in any administrative and territorial unit they can't, for reasons of combat, carry out their functions as local self-government authorities, then these functions are transferred to military administrations. Please tell us why in cities, communities, villages, areas for heating, the provision of hot water is the responsibility of the military administration when all local authorities are able to perform their functions peacefully? Why do we accept these standards? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u233	106 Alekseiv’s amendment was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:44:07]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 109th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you. You know, I'd like to go back now to the essence of this very important law. Now you know that the spread of Hungarian law in Ukraine has contributed to the development of new features of the mentality of the local population, because it's not just about governance. Ruslan Alexiyovich! Ruslan Alexiyovich, Hungarian law -- it's not just about the document or the legal aspects, it's already been written by historians that this has contributed to the formation of new features of the mentality of the local population. This is about us with you, about Ukraine, and this is our distinction from the Russian Federation, where there was no Magdeburg law. So the Ukrainians have become familiar with democracy, with less central government, with a desire to build social life on the basis of legal norms. And in this way, the Hungarian law helped us to form a civil society that went through two courses. Now you want it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u235	The 109th Amendment of Gerasimov, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:45:38]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 112th, Dmitry Alexanderovich. Ah, excuse me, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, right? Well, he just said you'd take it off. Please, 111, Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u236	Ruslan Alexiyovich, the question of what, the question is that, in the light of what is happening today in the country in terms of the state of war and the places where our Armed Forces are now fighting the enemy, we are demonstrating not exactly the right style of work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when we're breaking through these regulations, understanding that we're pushing and failing. This is a backlog, I think, of the Conciliation Board, when we agree on some compromising things and we can't stand them until the end of the session room. We understand that these amendments are not coming through, so I think that at 16 o'clock we should close our discussion of this bill at this stage, and then, within the Conciliation Council, continue to work out the compromise of this bill so as not to show this disgrace at least to ourselves, because society does not see us in any way and does not properly explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And my amendment, 111, please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u237	Thank you. 111. Taras Ivanovich Batenka's amendment, I put it to the vote. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:47:05]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. One more time, 112th, Brainy. It's gone, isn't it? Thank you. 113th. Blue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u238	Dear Mr. Head, we have just heard the reasoning of the reporter that says that tens of thousands of members of the united territorial communities are not responding well to their responsibilities. But please tell me, if we're talking about the fact that we have MPs with the pro-Russian parties and the pro-Russian propensity, it's a good thing that we voted today for banning the pro-Russian parties, we don't have the OTG heads that are set up by the pro-Russians who are already in occupied territories to cooperate with the enemy? We have today the instrument adopted by the Supreme Council, this is the Cooperation Act. Let us allow today those deputies who are set up to cooperate with the enemy to show themselves and to hold them accountable. We will not be able to do so unless we ask these questions in the session hall of the united territorial communities. And one more thing. Please tell me, and there are precedents today when the council is not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u239	113th Amendment of the People’s Chamber of Blues, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:48:39]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 116th, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u240	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Right now, I'd like even the People's Servant, who reads the laws, to listen to me very carefully. This bill is now in the right column of the table, as amended by articles 11 and 12, proposing that the President and the Supreme Council be empowered to remove officials who are appointed or dismissed. Let's just keep in mind that both the President and the Supreme Council are governed by the Constitution and cannot be extended any more than making changes to the Constitution. If there are no powers of exclusion in the Constitution, then there cannot be any in the law. And secondly, the important point is that it's not entirely clear what the suspension and assignment of the responsibilities are. Now, in fact, the President of Ukraine will have the opportunity to remove all judges, including the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and to appoint judges. The Supreme Council, for example, can remove the minister of defense and appoint a full - time minister. Is this the right decision today? I'm not sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u241	116 The amendment of the national deputy Gerasimov was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:50:07]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 117. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u242	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you now seem to be making one of the standard mistakes, you think that if you have a majority, if you have a war, you can destroy the foundations of democracy, the foundations of freedom of speech, the foundations of local self-government, you can start any corruption scheme, you can do anything. This illusion of permissiveness, it's going to end sooner or later, it's just people in war now, in trouble and they really want to hang out and be together in this situation. But you use this unity and community to destroy a country with smiles, noises, talking on mobile phones, looking at it like a circus. I want to tell you that sooner or later, responsibility will come.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-05-03-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, 117 amendments, Timoshenko, is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:51:43]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Unfortunately, because of the large number of amendments and proposals made by the national MPs to the Bill, registration number 7269, we cannot conclude this issue today. We will return to the conclusion of his consideration and other questions scheduled for today at our next meeting. Thank you all for your fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session. The time and place of our next meeting will be announced in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. With us is the truth, God is with us. We work together to win. Glory to Ukraine!
