ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary is resumed, I would like to highlight the need for the continued enforcement of the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the beginning of the plenary session, its passage and the adoption of decisions in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. I ask all Ukrainian national deputies and government representatives to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. The Supreme Council of Ukraine works in one plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposals of the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good tradition, we will begin the work of performing the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 210th day of the Russian Federation's full-scale armed aggression against Ukraine. Our brave heroes are loyally fighting with the Russian aggressor for the most expensive – our Fatherland, its freedom and the right to choose its own future. Regrettably, a brutal war takes our protectors and protectors to heaven prematurely. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of soldiers who have fallen into battle while defending Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity. We also honor the memory of all peaceful citizens who died at the hands of Russian invaders. [[A Minute of Silence]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone listened to the message from the swamp, yes, which was more like a collection of cacophony and gibberish. But in view of the next phase of the escalation of the security situation in the world caused by recent decisions and statements by the Russian Federation’s criminal authorities, I inform you that today the President of Russia has addressed the Russians, declared partial mobilization of citizens of the country, threatened Western countries with nuclear weapons. Once again Russia rises to the theme of pseudoferendums in the territory of our country. We have one answer to all these threats and statements: The Ukrainian people will not be intimidated or broken. We continue our path to democracy, development and European values. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the day’s vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take part in the signal vote by pressing the "Pro" button. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Signal vote. Please hold a signal vote. [[10:24:08]] For 252 252 – in, 6 – against, held – 1. As always. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, our colleagues are celebrating their birthday today. Marian Bogdanovich Zablotsky, "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] And also the Inna Romanovna Sosun, the Voice. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] We welcome our colleagues, our strong health, our life - style, our new achievements in the name of Ukraine, and our victories. Dear colleagues, I again ask all Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the conduct of plenary meetings that have been decided in Parliament before 30 minutes after the completion of our work. Colleagues, a list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board, are given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The first question we have is a draft decree on the execution by the heads of the military administrations of the Donetsk area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. This is a presidential project, 8054. Dear colleagues. Now, come on, there's a proposal without discussion, to vote immediately. Do you have a deal? I'm making an offer, colleagues. First: include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:26:00]] For 270. Decision taken. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the Implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administration of the Settlements in the Donetsk Region of Powers, provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. Registration number for Bill 8054. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:26:36]] For 287 Decision taken. The draft decision was adopted as a whole. Dear colleagues, next bill 8055. This is a draft decree for the execution by the head of the National Village Military Administration of the Corstene region of the Žitomir area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:27:19]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Next, dear colleagues. I take it there's going to be a need to discuss this, so. No, let's first vote on the simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:27:53]] For 237 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, with this discussion, I invite the Deputy Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Kozlovsk Natalija Viktorovna, to report. Please, Natalia Victoriana.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u2	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status, the President of Ukraine introduced a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the execution by the Head of the National City Military Administration of the Corstomir Region of powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. The purpose of the decision is to give the head of the National City Military Administration of the Corostene region of the Gitomir area the responsibilities provided for in part. 10 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law, including the exercise of city council powers, its executive committee and city heads. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u3	Thank you, Natalia Victoria. Please take your place. Dear colleagues, the committee's report. Zavodnievich Alexander Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, reviewed the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation by the head of the National Village Military Administration of the Corestinian Region of the Žitomir Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 8055 of 19.09). 2022), submitted by the President of Ukraine. The purpose of the draft law on the definition of the subject of the legislative initiative is to grant the head of the National Village Military Administration of the Corstene Region of the Žitomir Region the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. Following a discussion of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation by the head of the National Village Military Administration of the Corstene Region of the Žitomir Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 8055) (since 19.09.2022), submitted by the President of Ukraine, the committee approved: First. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include the draft decree in the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and the outcome of the consideration of the decision in general. The other one. In the event of the adoption of the project as a whole, propose to the committee, when preparing the text of the adopted decision for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Period. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to register: two in favour, two in opposition to discussing this draft decision. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u7	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, please have a moment of your attention. We have just voted without discussion that the authorities of the local councils are being handed over from the mayors to the heads of the VCA in the Donetsk region. That's understandable, because there's active fighting. Now you're talking about the back community, the back of the back, the Corstene region, just look at the map. And they want her not to carry out her duties as a councillor, not as a mayor, but instead as a VCA and BCA manager. It's a very dangerous precedent. I'm addressing every national MP in this room, what, tomorrow we're voting for the VCA at Zakarpatta, in Cherniv? Are we going to vote for the VCA in Lvivsky, Ternopilsky or Frankish? So, colleagues, I've looked closely at this determination and I want to ask everyone not to support it. And what I'm saying is that I've spoken to many of your colleagues from the Committee of Local Authorities, they're definitely against this decision, I mean the representatives of the "Serve of the People" faction, because it's a very dangerous precedent. I understand that decentralization in general is now being reduced to zero using the state of war, but the key now is not to create this precedent. Once again, I say to everyone: Do not support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u9	National MP, Maksim Valentinovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u10	Request to pass on the word Zavávněvích.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u11	Alexander Mikhailovich Zavodnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, please support the decision, this is not the first time we've done this. Please. support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u14	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, I know this situation because I have a bearing on Zitomirsk, on the Corstene region. So when I came up with the draft decision, I had this, let's say, double impression. And on the one hand, I understand my colleagues' argument that self-government should be a priority in areas where they don't go directly, let's say, fighting or not being occupied. And that's true, it's really our priority. On the other hand, I also understand the situation that relates specifically to the People’s Region. Today, there is friction in authorities, as it were, structures. The border area, the area specific to what may happen there at any time, may potentially resume any provocations or opportunities for action by our so - called neighbors. So, given all these circumstances, it's probably more logical for the authorities to be there, full authority, strong in the person now the head of the military-civil administration. So it seems to me that as a result, the situation for today needs to be supported. Although, once again, the arguments of those who object, I think I understand, but once again, given the situation, this is a decision that needs to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, are you ready? I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical amendments to the legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the implementation by the head of the National Village Military Administration of the Corstodian Region of the Žitomir Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. Registration number of the Project Regulation 8055. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:36:50]] For 221 The decision is not taken. By factions, please show me. Thank you. Next. Dear colleagues, there's an offer without discussion, it's a personnel question.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u16	Is there not even a man here to discuss, Arthur Volodymyrovich? We're talking about the absence of his deputy, aren't we? Okay, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, Bill 8063, this is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Shenceva D.O. Dear colleagues, we have a very brief question, don't we have to vote? Right now, yeah? This is a matter in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So please write it down: two for, two for, two for. Please, National Deputy Sinutka Oleg Mihajlovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart, because there are only two reporters and we are voting immediately. Oleg Mikhailovich Sinyutka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u19	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u20	It's a good thing we're finally starting Collaborators and those who receive Pushkin's orders and work with our enemy to get rid of them. Moreover, this person has a very interesting biography, linked to both the crime scene and the attack on journalists. What's not there? But, on the other hand, we have them in the hall, they continue to stay in the hall of Collaborators, who, after 2014, always said Russia was a friend until 2014. We don't consider somehow the decree on the termination of the powers of the FMCT, those who have been chosen by the lists of this party, those who have always called for trust and an agreement with Putin, to give up in fact. And this party is already banned by the Supreme Court today. But I understand why we're not considering this decision today that there be no more Collaborators in the session hall, even though there are legal positions to do so. Because a monotonous majority that lacks votes for the majority today selects, as it is now, although not enough, the voices from the wreckage of that OPCW. Not enough, everyone talks to them normally, everyone deals with them normally, and even for freedom of speech today is a person’s responsibility. The committee is in charge of freedom of speech, and the person who called for a deal with Putin, who is the closest associate of Kum Putin. Here's what's going on today. We will certainly vote in favour, but the Collaborators must disappear from the Supreme Council of Ukraine forever. And if we don't vote on it, one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u21	Please, Grishna Julia Mikolayevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u22	Colleagues, I ask you to support this decision and to proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u23	Thank you, Julia Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move to making a decision. Please take your seats. Let's move on to decision-making. I'm making an offer to accept the entire draft of the Ordinance on the Cesseva D.O. People's Deputies. (Registration number 8063). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:41:37]] For 299 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill we have, the next Bill 7668. This is a draft law amending Chapter XX of the Code of Taxation on Excise Taxes for the duration of the legal regime of military, state of emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, will someone please make some adjustments? Look, I know Julia Volodymyrna turned and asked for 10 minutes instead of her amendments. And Eugene Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna is five minutes of performance and two repairs. Uh, five amendments, right? One amendment. All right, all right. Let's start with Julia Volodymyrna. Please, Julia Volodymyr. Please, Julia Volodymyr. We have a reporter for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like to talk to you about our country's management strategy at all. Because the excise you're currently entering is essentially one element at all wrong, wrongly chosen strategy. Please look at all European countries. In connection with the energy industry’s expansion, in connection with the sanctions imposed on Russia’s energy supply, these countries are now reducing the value added tax, removing excise duties, removing all fuel taxes in order to enable the country to endure. What are you doing? You, by introducing excise taxes on fuel, are immediately destroying several areas of life in Ukraine. We're talking about how to rebuild the economy. But when you put the excise on fuel, you practically put the agricultural sector into an even larger system of bankruptcy. And you know that the agricultural sector today is one of the few that can get the country out. But because of the blocked export, the seeds today are in extreme crisis. And you still put an excise tax on fuel. How can a government that thinks strategically of its country, its economy, its war do so? The other one. We all expect the help of our army from the world, and at this time you're taking from the army the specific financial resources that they're going to have to pay in the form of an excise on fuel. Who would call such a government and such a policy wise? It's just weird what you're doing. A third point to be considered. When our Ukrainians go to other countries of the world, they help them to do their best. And you, knowing that the Ukrainians don't have any money today, you put the excise on their fuel, and that's how you get the money out of their pockets. If Ukrainians lose their ability to pay, the result is the economy. You suck money out of the economy, from the army, from the agricultural sector, from the citizens' pockets. And where you're going with them is this question. You know, the excise is filling up a special fund to fund Big Construction. In times of peace, to a full - scale war, it may have been appropriate to build roads, but without turning back up to 30 percent. But today, when every penny can be accounted for, how can we today raise the question of restoring the work of the road fund, in order to do what - to make the pit repairs? Or in order to finance 5-6 mud companies that get orders for road construction? Explain what you are doing. Explain the logic behind your actions. I just want to tell you that the two bills that are now standing, the excise bill and the road fund restoration bill, are talking about what they've been missing. Instead of putting people on roofs where they can't live today instead of putting glass in the windows of those houses that before autumn have remained virtually uninhabitable because they didn't have a few copies, instead of giving every penny to the army today, to the people, to give to our agrarians today, you take it from them. And that's why we can't take this step. I know that I understand perfectly perfectly well, I am adequately looking at the situation in the room, I know that voting today is not a matter of rationality, not rationality, not merit, not of some proper country governance strategies, but of today's voting issue being resolved either by agreement behind the tapes, or by direct order of people to vote. Someone you hold by your throat, someone by your pocket, and someone you hold in future parliamentary elections. But what I'm trying to say is that this is not how politics in the country is built. Our team believes that the introduction of the excise assembly and the renewal of the work of the road fund is, in fact, a terrorist act against the economy of Ukraine. This is a corruption for which we will not be accepted into the European Union today. That's what you're putting your leather interests above the power of the state today in this terrible war, you're putting Ukraine's national interests in the last place, and you're putting the skins in the first place, where you can get rid of them. I strongly propose to vote against this law because it is allogeneic and it is against Ukraine. I would also like to emphasize, dear friends, that there is still such a story as to fuel deficits. You know that excise, all the companies that supply diesel and gasoline, have to pay with a subscription, virtually a subscription. They don't have any circulation costs, they won't have anything to pay for this excise. And that could lead to another fuel and gas shortage at the gas station. I just want to go to the government right now, to the grand majority. If you think you're breaking Parliament's knee, you'll be able to explain to the people what you're doing, don't think that Ukrainians are so ignorant. I'm sure the Ukrainians will give you an evaluation sooner or later. But today, think about the country, not your skins. I urge the entire Parliament to vote against the imposition of excise duties on fuel and to vote against the opening of a road fund. If something is to be paid from the road fund, it is only the restoration of infrastructure that is damaged by war, bridges, and roads that are needed for logistics. But it's not that you called it a big building before the war of the full-scale one. I also, dear friends, want to remind you that today Putin has essentially announced a massive mobilization, in fact a new phase of brutal war is beginning. And you don't have the right, you just don't have the right at this time to solve corruption issues instead of government issues. I call on all the factions, all the MPs not to push the button just, you know, because someone wrote you to push it so hard, and think about the country, think about every person, about the army, about the agrarians, don't make the wrong decisions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, if possible, the brief position of the committee on this matter. And I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. I understand no one's going to insist, we're going to make decisions about this. It will be, won't it? All right, all right, all right. I'm sorry, there's a lot of information going on. Then Nina Petrovna, a single amendment, I remember. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. After that, Nina Petrovna. And Dmitri Alexanderovich, right? How many amendments are you going to make? Okay. Please, Danilo Alexanderovich, then Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u26	Honorable colleagues, a fine speech of opposition, a traditional speech of opposition that calls for tax cancellation or tax evasion in a matter of minutes and at the same time repairs the roofs damaged by military aggression. I think war is a time of responsibility. War is the time of the statesmen. War is a time when all the reserves, all the resources we need to consolidate for the only one -- exclusively for victory. Not to pursue politics, not to engage in populism, but to do what was done in that country for 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u27	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please. Just call the amendment number right away, because we have a big document.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u28	For amendment number 1057. Now, with all due respect, everyone has an opinion, but it's quite obvious that everything that now applies to small farmers, in general our agrarians, well, you're all 99 percent present here in the hall, you feel that a significant increase in the minibars, and in general their absence, unmanaged logistics doesn't allow the small agrarians to harvest crops, they refuse it, and even more so, to sow the osmites. I ask you to consider the reduced rate for agrarians, as foreseen in 19 countries of the 27 European Union: 21 euros. This approach is all the same, and we're going to be implementing it any way we want, because our crops can't compete with European Union agrarians that have reduced rates and subsidies from the state much larger. Please support Amendment 1057.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u29	Danilo Alexandrovich, if possible, briefly. 1057 of Nina Petrovna’s amendment
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u30	We discussed this approach in particular. It's not administrative, it's impossible to control it in any way. And this is both the position of Minfin and the tax office. Moreover, it is not clear why we should give such benefits to agrarians and not give them to metallurgers or give them to other industries, chemicals, and so forth. So let's just say that this is a compromise decision that the committee has proposed, let's support it the way it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's put it to a vote. Yes, Nina Petrovna? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 1057 people's deputies of the South. It's rejected by the committee, you've heard the arguments of the parties. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:53]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Dmitri Alexanderovich, tell me immediately the number of the amendment, because it's a very large document.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u32	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have a request. I have 8 rights, 3 minutes, and I'm going to put one right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u33	What's the number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u34	Number line?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u35	Yeah. Which ones will you consider?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u36	On the count of 1070.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u37	1070, okay. Give it three minutes, then. Then, dear fellows, we move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u38	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, you and I are seeing today, in a mild sense, chaotic policies in the field of taxation. First we completely cancel all the excise duties and taxes, then we start returning them without a transparent procedure, without any clear logic of these processes, without understanding how this affects the price of fuel, without understanding why and where these costs will go. We understand that infrastructure is necessary, but everyone remembers that in the distant 19th year we promised people that we would build clear long-term rules and relationships between power and business. Legislation cannot be changed today. This is also forbidden by the current Ukrainian legislation. Minimum in six months. In the bill, we propose a regulation of 1070 to postpone any changes to tax legislation for at least 3 months after the law enters into force -- adopted to enter into force. Similarly, we cannot constantly change our approach to where money will go. I remind you that in our time, we decided as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after which the President signed this law, to send only for the external obligations of Ukraine and the Ukrainian army. Today we are seeing again the opaque mechanisms and today there is a lot of talk about where these funds are going to go, where they're going to go. Let us conclude this tax policy. You've seen a lot of things with FOPs, you've seen a lot of things with other taxes that change all the time. If we're talking to you about another idea that was very specific, so to speak, the relevant committee about 10 percent on imported goods, it's once again a completely opaque and illogical process, when we first take any of these, then we bring them back, and then we start adding plus 10 percent. What is 10 percent, many know. You'd better forget about it and put the drawer away. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to put 1070 on the table. She's talking about any change.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u39	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm sorry, 1070 is Kostuch's right, it's rejected. You probably meant 1072.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u40	Look, well, it's back before the tables are formed. They're constantly changing. We've taken it from this analogy that there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u41	It's probably 1072, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Your turn is 1072. Then I'll put 1072. Okay? Dear colleagues, the amendment of 1072 people's deputies of Razumkov. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on counting. Please identify and vote. [[10:59:03]] For 115 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains rejected. And the final, I take it, the amendment, is going to be Nina Petrovin Jujanin, the 16th amendment. Dear colleagues, after this amendment has been defined, we vote in favour of the law as a whole. People's deputies, please don't go away. Nina Petrovy, 16th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u42	Colleagues, in view of the fact that the committee had a very difficult table and I accidentally sounded yesterday, but probably for the first time all of the National Fellows who planned the 16th Amendment were 100, 152 and 100, 100 set for the period of war, but not later than 01.07.2023, first. Secondly, biodiesel and biofuels have been added to this list, so they will also apply to the reduction of the rate and the period to 01.07. But there was another mistake: 7 percent of VAT will also be up to 01.07. Neither the government nor the Ministry of Finance have claimed this, nor has anyone heard from the committee. And it's obviously a technical error. Head of the committee, please correct it, because 20 percent of the VAT on all fuel since 01.07.2023.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u43	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u44	Nina Petrovna, there is no mistake, absolutely right decision. From July 1st of the following year, this extended period is ending. If the war ends early, I'll remind you, and when you and I made the decision in the spring, we thought it would end in a month, in a month, it would end automatically before, much earlier. But the term July 1st requires that there be a definition and taxation, a definition of the subjects of farming, a definition of the people when, in fact, the normal order of taxation of fuel is restored. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here we go again, summarizing the 16th amendment of the authorship of Danila Alexandrovich Getmanchev. She's a committee member. Nina Petrovna asks for confirmation, the author asks for confirmation. And the committee expressed this position. As a result, I would like to confirm the 16th amendment of the Guthmannsev People’s Deputies. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:01:57]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded a discussion of this law, the bill. I now propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Code of Taxation for the period of the legal regime of the military, state of emergency (the registration number of Bill 7668-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:49]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, next bill 7669. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the use of State Road Fund funds. Dear colleagues, will there be any adjustments? Please, Alexander Stanislavovich. Two amendments have, I see, the Princely, the Yuzanin -- one amendment and the Ironman -- one amendment, and we vote in favour of the law as a whole. And the Cymbaluk, right? Dear colleagues, please don't split up, a few amendments and we're voting on the law as a whole. Please, let's get started. Who will be the first? Eugene Nina Petrovna, come on. Just tell me the number first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u46	Amendment 47. It applies to that. If you've seen, there's only one line of article 38 on the state budget from this big table. I ask you to consider this part, which will be the only amendment to article 38. Set as an exception to regulation 24.2: State Road Fund costs are primarily directed to the defence sector’s needs. Please support this amendment. We talked about it with members of the majority, and you all understand it and you also support it. So I ask everyone to vote unanimously in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, Amendment 47, she's the author of Nina Petrovna Jujanina, she's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on counting, right? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:17]] For 310 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The amendment is taken into account, the 47th amendment of Nina Petrovna of Jujanina. Please, Princess. Let me announce everyone. Princely, Tzabal, and after that Mikhail Mikhailovich Zymbaluk – three minutes instead of his amendments. And then we go to the vote. And the Ironman. Please, Tzabal. Excuse me, Princess. I'm the Prince's first, then. Princely, Tzabal, Iron, Cymbaluk, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u48	Friends, amendment 335. The amendment suggests that in 2022, as an exception to article 24.2 of the Budget Code, the costs of the State Road Fund are primarily directed to the needs of the defence sector, as we said, (whom) State support for cinematography, ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, including the implementation of the project support fund, as well as ensuring the activities of the Ukrainian Book Institute, support for book publishing, the promotion of Ukrainian literature worldwide. Remember the President who presented the Chewchenk Prize, quoted Churchill, who said that if we don't support culture, what are we fighting for? We have a culture in this budget, and for the next year there are zeros. Please support this amendment, and at least some funds will be allocated to support Ukrainian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to reject this amendment. The amendment of the 335 People’s Deputy of Knieżicky, rejected by the committee, insists on taking account. People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[11:07:21]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Who's next? Ah, another Princess. Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u50	Thank you. Amendment 1197 envisaged by the Government's mandate to bring its legal acts into line with this law and to inform the Supreme Council of the state of implementation of this law. Obviously, neither the Supreme Council nor society want to inform us where the taxpayers’ costs are being spent. That's absurd. At the end of the fiscal year, instead of strengthening the Ukrainian army, rebuilding the cultural heritage and supporting the culture, we are spending huge costs again without monitoring and reporting to society. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u51	1057, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u52	1197.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u53	Uh, 1197, I'm sorry. 1197, now, one second. Dear colleagues, Amendment 1197, authorship of the People's Deputy of Knieżick. She's been rejected by the committee. The arguments were clarified. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:46]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Next, please, the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, 338. I will remind you that during the introduction of the war, we adopted amendments to the Budget Code, which states that road fund money can only be spent for defence-related purposes, and that was true. Now we're trying to undo this and allow, including using money to build and rebuild roads damaged by armed aggression. It's probably the right thing to do, and I support that idea. But the problem is that this is what the explanatory note says, and the bill itself does not specify it. Accordingly, my bill specifies that the money of the road fund can be used for the purposes that we have foreseen during the introduction of the state of war, that is, for the purposes of defence and so on, as well as for the restoration of roads and the construction of roads damaged by the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. So my amendment, it refines and proves the bill to the content of the explanatory note. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, amendment 338 of the Cabal People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please hear the argument, please identify and vote. [[11:10:28]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Please, Ironman, amendment 566.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this bill does not apply either to roads or to the use of a road fund. This amendment is an amendment to the Code of Budgets which has so-called budgetary neutral status. It's not going to affect how much we spend, it's being supported, that's technical regulation, because we're accelerating the budget process. It's about us being able, if there's money, to finance a vocational school, which is probably normal and right, especially when cities like Mariupol and others don't have that possibility. I would now like to argue with the Education Committee, which should present this amendment, and personally with Mr. Koleboshin. This is a negative reference to it in the context, and I ask you to convey the word in order for it to explain why I, not him or the other members of the committee, did not file such an application. And I'm asking you very much to support it. It's a really important amendment. I'm sorry it's not a profile law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u57	Thank you. Let's still vote for this amendment, and then I'll give you the right to reply. Is it the right to a replica first? Right to the replica, please. Sergey's sausage, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Imagine a student at a vocational and technical institute in Mariupola who, for example, plans to work on Austala. But after the occupation of this city, he left and, for example, in Lviv is trying to enter a vocational school to continue his studies and then work for the economy of our state. But it doesn't have that possibility right now, because, I remind you, the profits are funded by regional budgets, mostly district budgets, sometimes urban ones, and it's a story about regional procurement. So this right over here is where these kids can be taught, and accordingly we're going to get quality labor footage that will then be restored, and what then, is now going to be restoring our country's economy. Please support this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, who are in the position of the committee, let us ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u60	The committee did not consider it at its meeting. did not accept this amendment because it does not directly apply to the knowledge of this law. But the room can be decided by a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'm putting 566 amendments to the Iron People's Deputy, it's rejected by the committee, but you've heard the argument. So please vote, Your Honor, 566 amendments. [[11:13:31]] For 315 Correction accepted. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u62	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! We've been trying to get this bill to be improved by the faction's second reading, so that the budget of the warring state is directed, first of all, to the defence sector. Sadly, our revisions were not taken into account. Next. We believe that if the funds were surplus, then they could have been directed towards restoring the infrastructure where it was actually destroyed during the fighting and that would probably be the right thing to do. This is not supported either. Moreover, we believe that a change in the budget of a warlord in terms of a road fund could have been directed towards restoring the housing of those citizens who will be living in multi-story buildings without roofs until winter. Unfortunately, this proposal was not taken into account. Because of this, respected colleagues should be kept in mind that every penny used in the budget during the war period will also have to be reported to civil society, and we are confident that there will be a time when the Supreme Council will be able to listen to Ukrainian citizens as well, and they will hear how the Supreme Council approves certain important bills. These are actually the cost of a road fund that could be directed towards improving the material and technical base of our military. The fall-winter period is coming. Are all the military equipped with warm clothes? There's a question. To what extent is it known that only 300,000 individual warehouses have been purchased today, and the rest? That's also a big question. And that could have been where the money was going. After reviewing the draft for the second reading, the "Paternity" faction concluded that, unfortunately, it was not possible to improve it by introducing rights. And for such changes, unfortunately, we cannot vote. And the "Fatherland" faction on the second reading doesn't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u63	Please, Nina Petrovna, six more minutes. Then another mental amendment, and we move on to the vote. Nina Petrovna, six minutes. Dmitri Alexanderovich, one amendment and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I will now try to unite in one. Because I realized so much that many people didn't realize what was going on with the change. In fact, only one amendment was included in the table — spending on the road fund as an exception to article 38. Now that you've all supported a total of 47 amendments, we've got a text saying that the state road fund's spending is primarily focused on providing for the defence sector's needs, as well as up to 50 percent of the state road fund's funds are focused on building and reconstructing international car crossings. And here you and I have just reached some compromise. But what's very important is that I turn to power. In order for these laws to really be fulfilled, it would require opposition control. And when we suggested that you create a TSC for the cost of a road fund, it's to control these first-line costs. And that would have to be done today, and then we would have realized that we had unitedly solved a problem that seemed to have separated us here in the hall. But for some reason today, the question of creating a TSC to control spending from the road fund is not in the hall. But at the same time, this bill is still difficult. It's important because this resource is being filled at the expense of citizens and at the expense of the economy. And I'm not talking about the previous draft of the law, and I'd like to point out to you that it's the lack of consistency and expectation that doesn't allow the economy to recover. I'm not talking about growth, I'm talking about recovery. After all, when there was chaos in the fuel market, when there was a terrible deficit, we all know that the deficit was simply so, it was overcome by the rapid involvement of the Ministry of Fuel Supply in Ukraine. It was not the monopolies that led us to have a full market, namely, small and medium - sized businesses, which, with neither the resources nor the additional financial capacity, made it impossible and started to import large quantities of fuel. And I've heard from my colleagues and on the air that, oh, they've grown so much, they have some excess income. So right after the adoption of the 68th Law, it's going to be a lot smaller, we're going to go back to the deficit, we're going to mention it in the hall. Because the resources that have now accumulated will be sufficient for several months, and they certainly don't apply to agrarians. Agrarians will not go to three, four monopolistic companies to fuel their agrarian technology. And they were just eating the fuel that these little entrepreneurs were bringing in, and they were quickly getting their bearings. I cannot accept that the authorities have no policy regarding transitional periods. How can you do that? You have just heard a discussion about amendment 16, which cannot be controlled with reduced excise duty on agrarians. So let's then implement the European Union Directive, where exactly the projected reduced rate of 21 euros is not just for agrarians, but actually for all machines, machinery, equipment and equipment that work outside the general purpose. Yes, this is a key article in the European Union directive and it is absolutely obvious that we have and will need to implement it. So why don't we start now? Why not set a consistent, correct, consistent state of the economy, a stage in the transfer of excise taxes? Why is it 100, which makes sense? Who did the bills? Why is it that no one knows the Asians about the formation of excises, the goods for which they are produced, and why are such rates formed? Why isn't anyone doing this? I think it's enough to make such quick, thoughtless decisions. I realize that at the beginning of the war, we didn't know, we didn't know, we didn't know, we didn't make quick decisions, we broke taxes, we thought it was worth it. But the argument that we have war and need money in the budget is not an argument. An economy that can't start a business and put money into the budget, that means that all forces have the power to feed first, to enable them to develop, to rebuild the economy, and then to raise funds into the budget. You're acting to the contrary. And your argument, even for me, that we need money doesn't work. First restore the economy and then we'll raise the money. You can't raise money in advance right now, the economy doesn't work that way. You don't cheat the laws of the economy, they'll beat you, understand that, please. And that's going to lead to a long, long recovery and backlog. So really think about it when you make a decision that is so important to the state. This can't go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final chord of this bill. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov. I get it. One change of count, one for confirmation. Let's start with the one that counts. Dmitri Alexanderovich, number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u66	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Absolutely right, number 43, it's about what the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already accepted. In its time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided that the money of the road fund should be spent on the army -- on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which today protect our country with you and return those territories that were temporarily captured by Russia. So right 43 suggests leaving this rule, and the resources that will come to the road fund should be used exclusively for the needs of the Ukrainian army and for the needs, including infrastructure, if they are needed to secure the defence tasks of the Ukrainian Army and our Armed Forces. So, Your Honor, please support the Ukrainian Armed Forces and our supporters with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, 43 revisions by Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov were rejected by the committee. Please make up your mind, vote. [[11:24:45.]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, another correction to account for. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. We are now voting on the amendment for confirmation and then we are voting on the law as a whole. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u68	Thank you. Amendment 1198. Dear colleagues, please tell us how you got into the state fund in the Road Fund Act. How does it relate to this bill? This is totally out of harmony with neither the Rules nor the sound logic nor the order. Let us make it as it should be according to the legislation in force. Please don't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u69	Amendment 1198. Right, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please tell me the position of the committee has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u70	Committee position. We considered this amendment carefully at the committee meeting. She was supported by a committee. Because the money that comes from the excise tax will not be enough for the last three months for the road fund. And we understood that, and so we added another 2 billion to the reserve fund just to restore critical infrastructure and restore infrastructure as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression. The committee supported the amendment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, amendment 1198 is counted by committee. These are the authorships of the national deputy Aristov and his colleagues. The National Deputy of Razumkov is asking for confirmation. The committee requests that this amendment be kept under consideration. So, national deputies, please vote. Amendment 1198. [[11:27:00]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, final. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget for 2022 on the use of State Road Fund funds. Project registration number 7669. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:27:56]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u72	In factions, please show us your previous vote. Thank you. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the entry of the Ukrainian national deputy, Shevchenk Evgen Volodymyrovich, into the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, next bill 3663. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine. On September 7, 2022, at the suggestion of 156 people's deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to apply a special procedure for the second reading of draft laws, which is provided for in article 119, marked Prim. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the second reading of the special procedure of the draft Law (registration number 3663). The Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights summarized these proposals and amendments that came from MP factions and groups and prepared one refined comparative table for the consideration of Bill 3663. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, the comparative table includes all proposals taken into account by the committee, as well as 13 rejected proposals that are urged by factions and groups. Let us turn to this question. Please give the statement to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to Galina Mikolayivna Trelyakowi. Galino Mikolayevno, we invite you, brief you and turn to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has done everything to ensure that we do not deblood the Ukrainian economy during wartime. I'm asking you to support this bill. He was having a hard time going through the committee, but we seem to have found all the balances to leave or even a little bit to strengthen human protection and do everything we can to make it easier for our people to have social protection. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u75	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Let us now consider some of the issues that may arise. Who will insist on their amendments? The Fatherland faction, I know Yvchenko will be, Tsimbaluk and Timoshenko. Right? Please, Yvchenko, the number. And Volintz. You have five amendments. Who will be the first? Oh, Wolintz, Yvchenko and 3 minutes, because Tsimbaluk raised his hand. Okay. Then Volinec – one amendment, Yvchenko – one amendment and Julia Volodymyrna – three minutes. Please, Volinec, fix number immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I have 107 amendments in this case, because we're following procedure. I've decided on 74 amendments. She predicts the following. That there is no way to combine the Social Insurance Fund with the Solidarity Fund. In this case, it's solid. The pension fund is a system of solidarity, and those insurance payments for insured persons, they're just going to be lost. And at the next stage, the drafters of the bill envisioned, in the interests of large private insurance companies, the elimination of the solidarity system, people will not have a pension. As of January 1, the following year, without any preparation, the law that provides for the introduction of pension insurance will enter into force. In the case of the loser Social Insurance Fund, the pension insurance that is today, you can't do that either. People who now have a pension will be out of retirement, and those who are over 35 years of age will also not have a pension because they will not collect insurance contributions. Therefore, dear colleagues, I ask you very much, in no way, to offend the elderly, not to offend those with disabilities who have lost their health. Very many people with disabilities will come after the war that will need to be rehabilitated, and these funds need to be preserved. Then we'll explain at the European level why we make such reckless decisions. The author of this bill is Michael Papiev, he's got us all a pig and, "Serves of the people," you too.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u77	Galina Mikolayevna, what is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u78	The position of the committee that social insurance management functions are passed on to the Pension Fund, and the adoption of this bill would be contrary to most of the provisions of this bill. The committee proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u79	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. I'm putting 74 amendments to Volintz's vote. The author's position, the committee's position you've heard. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:19]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Please, Yvchenko, correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u80	No. 80. Dear colleagues, the model of social insurance that this bill 3668 is destroying today, and the lobbyists have worked on it, it works in countries like Germany, Austria, France, Denmark, and I can count most European countries. But on July 14, Putin signed the law and joined the social insurance funds directly into the Pension Fund. And then the chairman of the committee invites our Supreme Council to do the same as in the Orc. Colleagues, our Armed Forces today defend our territorial integrity against the enemy. We have to take care of these people's welfare. There has already been an example of such funds being pooled and nothing good has been done. So let's think about it with you: either we go to Europe and we follow the Euro-integration directives, we try to form appropriate legislation, or the person who proposed the Papiev bill and the committee head will tell you that we are proposing European standards. So far, practice has shown that in the Orcostan, Russia directly, on July 14, pools funds and offers an appropriate model. Guys, think about it. I propose not to support this bill as one that is contrary to the interests of Ukrainian citizens, social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u81	Thank you. Vadim Evgenovich, since there was such a general report on the whole of the law, should 80 amendments be made to the vote? You should. Okay. Then I put 80 amendments to the authorship of the national deputy Yvchenka. Please be sure to vote. [[11:36:00]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Three minutes is Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Are you going to make an amendment, Julia Volodymyrna? Please, Julia Volodymyrna, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, just keep in mind that you are now canceling the European model for the functioning of the State Social Fund and implementing the Russian model. Well, just so you know what you're doing. The other one. The committee head said the key words. She said that by combining these funds, social and pension funds, we would save money for the country in a difficult moment. So the road fund opens up, the excises are introduced, and the social costs are reduced to protect the country at a difficult time. Now just listen to the social costs that are now being cleared. First. Instead of today’s full compensation for the loss of salary during a specific leave period, only partial compensation is foreseen. The other one. You're depriving this law, you're completely eliminating everything that's involved in supporting working people who have been traumatized by a company that needs to be rehabilitated, treated, and all of this will be completely eliminated. I can continue here endlessly this list of things that are being destroyed today. But more than 20 payments are being destroyed to the people who are receiving them today, and these are working people. You practically leave these people without help, and you still beat the women who give birth to children for Ukraine. I don't know, it's some crazy, idiotic thing. There's nothing else to explain. But I want to tell you another story right now. On September 27, our team will meet with me at the International Labour Organization in Geneva with General Director Guy Ryder and Director of the International Labour Organization of the European Union. We've just systematically prepared how the rights of working people in our country are being destroyed today, how and what you're doing today with social benefits, how you're clearing the minimum standard of living, as you're eliminating in fact all employment guarantees today. And I want to see how you talk to the European Union after that. And let's add a little bit to the corruption behind this, because 32 billion are stealing from people and going to corruption. All who have a conscience in this room vote against it. You can't turn people in and work on corruption schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u83	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u84	The committee suggests that these amendments be rejected, three. I would like to point out that the organisation of the work of the social insurance system has nothing to do with EU directives. EU directives do not attribute how any country organises a social insurance system, it organises it as convenient for those citizens. It seems to me that we should not assume external authority in our country, particularly against the faction that says so at present. As far as the Orcostan is concerned, I do not see what laws are being passed there. Maybe you're watching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, who will insist on their amendments to this bill? Dear colleagues, who else will insist? Who's there, I can't see. Grigory Mikolayovich's mom, huh? Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, do you think? Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I'm only there for two of the 90 amendments I've made. I want to pay attention to the four positions in the law. First. Notice, let's go back to our experts from GNEU. Read the conclusion, it clearly indicates that the Constitution does not conform to the proposed standards. Under circumstances that essentially eliminate self - control, the work of working groups, employers, and the state. Secondly, I would like to say that the contributions that people make to social insurance and that are essentially going to be eliminated under this law are people's property, and it's easier to own people, and to intervene there and under the kind of shortening of administration it's a system, it's simply impossible. Question three. We often turn to the Venice Commission to conclude the same decision. Why did we write this law that does not live on the Constitution of Ukraine? So when I vote, I would like us to choose with you the Constitution of Ukraine and the interests of the people or the bill that shortens the administration of social funds and social money and the Pension Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u87	Thank you. We take it as an unamended speech. That's why all the factions came out. People's deputies please take their place, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, please prepare to make your decision. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Let's move on to making decisions. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine (registration number 3663). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:43:51]] For 238. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next bill. Show the factions, please. The next bill is Bill 7295. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the payment of money to war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution. I'm proposing 7,295, and I'm proposing to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:44:37]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, why don't we talk about it? Discussing it, huh? Let's write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please. Please give the floor to the national deputy Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u88	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please pass the word to Mrs. Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u89	Galina Mikolayovna Tretlyakova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u90	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, unanimously supported the bill because it was about paying the amount of money they had made by May 5. The committee is proposing to transfer this, first, to the Cabinet of Ministers, in order to determine what our people should celebrate, but to offer it on Independence Day. We had a debate about whether to determine Independence Day or State Day, in any case we could discuss it on a second reading. But this bill should also be brought into the political order that is now in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u91	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u92	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u93	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u94	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Undoubtedly, the idea of moving away from Soviet dates and linking payments to war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution to festivals associated with the struggle for Ukrainian statehood is certainly correct. And October 14th, as proposed by the project, and Independence Day, as the committee concluded, are totally acceptable dates. Unfortunately, other innovations of the bill are less acceptable. First of all, aid is paid in order, the size of the Cabinet of Ministers. As noted by scientific and expert authorities, these rules should be established by laws rather than by regulations. By giving not only an order of assignment but also the size of government assistance, we reduce the level of social guarantees that we cannot agree with. So we hope that this rule will be brought to second reading so that we can support this idea of this right bill. By the way, when we offer to pay for the Day of Independence, we need to keep in mind those who have chosen this independence. So thank you to the dozens of colleagues who, along with me, passed Bill 8032 on the establishment of pensioners for their special merit before Ukraine. I hope that it is on this committee and in the plenary that it will be unwaveringly supported and that the Ukrainian State will finally establish worthy social guarantees for those who have given it years of their struggle and sometimes their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u96	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, the National Deputies! The initiative is definitely positive, and we discussed it on the committee, and it's really appropriate to transfer the payment of one-on-one cash assistance from May to October. This initiative is supported. But indeed, there are a few nuances that experts and representatives of GNEU point to. We're going to need to change our approach to the second reading. For the Cabinet of Ministers, if he makes a payment, he will again, as the colleague had previously said, be demeaning. According to an example last year, these are group I invalids, or group I disabled persons, reduced by 90 bracelets. I mean, they didn't even raise their payments for inflation. As a result, we believe that specific amounts will have to be fixed in the budget before the second reading through the introduction of rights. The rest are clearly transferred to the October month so that those who fall under these categories of single payment will have the right amount and realize that the state remembers them and helps financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u98	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the question is not clear; it needs to be approached, taking into account all the presentations in a responsible manner. And the hall has to be determined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Are there no more willing speakers? Aren't there any speakers? All of it. People's deputies please take your seats. Let's move on to decision-making. Dear colleagues, it was an agreement that we would take it as a basis, and then all of a sudden, I have it written that way. And there's a note, i.e. just on the basis of shortening the lines, I get it right? Well, on the basis of that, and I'm offering to cut the lines, the next room will be defined. Okay. Then we only work with the first offer. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the payment of monetary rewards to war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution (registration number 7295). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:51:37]] For 283 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to cut back on the proposal and amendments for the second reading of Bill 7295. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:52:06]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill is 6067, right? This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on employment reform, social insurance for unemployment, promoting productive employment, including youth, and introducing new active labour market programmes. 6067. Dear colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? No one's going to insist? Julia Volodymyrna, repairs, right? Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please. What are your adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, it is another time for the unemployed to be circumcised as much as possible during the war. So we have 79 amendments, and we all read them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u101	79 amendments, right? So we're not listening to the budget today, are we, Julia Volodymyrna? Okay. Let's make 79 amendments, we'll listen to 79 amendments. Galina Mikolayevna, take your place. Please, where do we start? Who's the author? 8th Timoshenko. Oh, it's counted. Declined ones need to be looked at, I'm sorry. Julia Timoshenko, what's the first amendment? Volentz? What's the number? Mikhail Volintz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, Mikhailo Wolinitz. Our leader, Julia Timoshenko, said that in this case employment issues have already been addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u103	Repair number, Mikhail Yakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u104	So I'm on my way, and I'm on my way. In this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u105	Name the number first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u106	Amendment number six.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u108	This bill is designed to significantly reduce the benefits that today are for people who have lost their jobs. In this bill, people who are refugees and for various reasons cannot provide timely documents will not register as refugees. This bill increases insurance from 6 to 7 months for those who have lost their jobs. This bill takes away the right to be accounted for and to receive support from those who have graduated from school, who have graduated from the Institute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u109	Please, Your Honor, the 6th Amendment of the Volinian, is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:17]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Please, what's the next amendment, who? Gerasimov, 12. Now, I'm watching. Gerasimov, 15th. Don't insist. Please, it's Volintz again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u110	Volintz, 34th Amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, be very careful. In paragraph 3 of paragraph 6 of section 4 and delete in this context. It is suggested that the project’s proposed changes increase the minimum insurance period required to obtain unemployment benefits from 6 to 7 months. I was talking about the increase in insurance from six to seven months. I'd like to remove this from the current project. Justification: This project is not in line with the provisions of article 22, part three, 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where the position of the people employed is substantially violated. Dear colleagues, I urge you to pay attention, read and hear what the Fatherland faction has to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm betting on the 34th amendment of the Volinz People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:52]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Please, what's the next amendment? Who's it gonna be? Volinec, what's your next amendment? Please, I said Wolintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u112	Yes, Mr. Head, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u113	Please. What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u114	I'm 39. My amendment is rejected. It's part of a friend. I suggest that we put it in the paper: to close the differentiation, which is designed to significantly reduce payments to insured persons depending on their work experience. Dear colleagues, people who are out of work today. We have about 50 percent of unemployment, the United Nations International Labour Organization is monitoring the employment situation in the country. At a time when no funds are allocated to create jobs and to keep Ukrainians in Ukraine to develop their economies, measures are being taken in this case to expel people, push them abroad. Clearly, those payments, the payments that are foreseen in.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 39th Amendment of the Volinz People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:43]] For-83 The decision is not taken. What's your next amendment? Tell me, please, Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u116	Ninety-two is my turn. Mikhail Volintz, "Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, this is a case where in this case there is contempt from the state and from the legislative body of the Supreme Council, and there is no account of the situation where people are left out of work, where they are not offered any measures to be employed. People have nothing to live for and cannot prepare their families for. In this case, it is again envisaged to reduce the benefits for people who have lost their jobs in Ukraine. I propose to reject 93 amendments, to reject 93 laws as one that does not correspond to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, you meant 93, right? Because 92-a is not yours, it's Gerasimova. That's why I'm betting on 93, with your permission. No, I can't do ten times, you see what you'll do. Turn on Volinca for two seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u118	Thank you for your attention. I reported 93 directions, I wasn't talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u119	But you called 92. Thank you. I'm 93 of Volinz's amendments to the vote. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:39]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Please, let's go. What's the number? Call it an oxen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u120	I don't have a microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u121	It's already on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u122	I have 235 rights that are counted, and this is the only seven rights that I've ever given. In this case, the employer is obliged to pay the extra to the students.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u123	Mikhail Yakovic, she's counted. Well, what do you report it for, 235? It's counted. What do you want with her? Turn on the Volinz microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u124	Mr. Head, this is the only correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u125	It's beautiful. But what do you want to do with it? You can't take it into account because it's accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u126	I'm just announcing how important this issue is in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u127	No, we all know. You can talk about those adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u128	Next is my 275.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u129	Go ahead, 275.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u130	It's rejected. It is suggested that we return to the current standard that provides for the employer’s responsibility for the failure to set quotas for the benefit categories of citizens. Such a rule in the draft law is deleted. Today, there are, there are quotas for employers, so that people who lose, who have disabilities, who have other problems, so that they can be set up, make a living. And this is also a question of rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u131	Galina Mikolayevna, please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u132	Dear right-holder, we're canceling the quota principle. And if you say we're going to Europe, canceling the quota principle and stimulating the employer is a European principle. And the quota system is in that Orcostan. So you're going to determine what system you're in, whether you're in, or you're in, or you're in, or you're in, European quotas, you're canceling quotas? The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 275 amendments to the Volinz National Deputy, have been rejected by the committee. So please identify and vote. [[12:03:24]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Mikhail Yakovic, do you still have any repairs? Not anymore. Thank you. Julia Volodymyr, please, just first the number of the amendment, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I'm talking about amendment number four. And I'm going to have a few more lines, and I'm going to talk. Dear friends, please tell me during the war, when people lost their jobs, what would be the point of changing the Employment Fund Act, the Employment Service, to support people? The first, realizing that people lost their jobs as a result of the war, would be the immediate loss of their jobs, registration, and payment of assistance. Second, if people have lost their jobs as a result of the war and have nothing more to do with it, there must be an increase in the length of unemployment assistance until the war is over or a person finds a job. Next. If a person loses his job, he has nothing to live for, he has to pay for it. It's not doing anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the 4th amendment of the authorship of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:05:00]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, number of the next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u136	31st. But let's now figure out what's going on. I'll just tell you about it so you know what you're voting for. I've got a few more rights. For each revision, I'll just tell you what you're canceling. Instead of shortening the deadline for a man who lost his job as a result of the war to get unemployment benefits, today it takes six months for a person to wait, six months not to be set up in the employment fund. On the contrary, they increase from 6 months to 7 months because the war goes on for seven months, so why give people unemployment benefits? Do you really support this? You really want people not to cut the deadline for unemployment benefits, and you want them to increase it to seven months to be unemployed for seven months? So you're straight up, not MPs? You're making things worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u137	Please, Galina Mikolayevna. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u138	Thank you. As for the previous amendment, I want to say that six months ago we started unemployment payments from the first day that a person becomes unemployed. With regard to the increase in minimum insurance to 7 months, we should not forget that we have seasonal workers. And it's to clean up the abuse, and it's done. It encourages employers to enter into full - time employment contracts. Thank you. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u139	Thank you. 31 Amendment of the authorship of Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:06:54]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u140	Next 42 revisions. Dear friends, of course, yes, it would be logical if a person loses his job as a result of a war, until the war is over, or a person gets a job, not to stop paying his unemployment allowance. We today have 360 calendar days to pay a person’s unemployment allowance, that is, the total length of unemployment benefits. For different categories of people, this law reduces to 270, 240, 210, and 180 even, and down to 180 young people. Just imagine what's going on. Youths who need to be promoted in terms of employment. And for internally displaced persons who do not have the documents necessary to grant unemployment. I mean, one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the 42th Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:08:22]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, do you still have an amendment? Please, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u142	Yeah, 69th. Dear friends, I continue to quote you on the dragon laws that you want to pass for temporarily unemployed people as a result of the war, including. For example, such a detail is that instead of increasing payments to people who have lost their jobs today, realizing that they have nothing left, they reduce from 70 percent to 50 percent unemployment aid after the end of the first 90 calendar days of payment, that is, part of the first article 23 of the law. So absolutely strictly the opposite is taken away from people even what they have today, do you understand that or not? If you want to be involved in this crime, press the green button as you know how to do it. I propose for this law to vote with red buttons against and develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u143	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u144	The committee decided to increase the duration of payments from 90 to 120 calendar days for young people up to 35 years of age, as well as for VPOs. Therefore, we need to read the law faithfully. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u145	Thank you. 69 Amendment of National MP Timoshenko, she was rejected by the committee, and the arguments of the parties were heard. Please identify and vote. [[12:10:06]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, please, what other amendment have you made?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u146	95th. Dear friends, you're just reading the bill to understand where the truth is and where it's not true. It's a wonderful recipe to find out who's telling the truth. We have a reference to each article. Now, let me make it clear that the reduction from 70 to 50 percent of unemployment assistance after the end of the first 90 calendar days is part of the first article of this law. In addition, there is an increase in the level of unemployment insurance, which will also make it difficult and, in principle, deprive people of normal unemployment assistance. I want to say that I'm going to pass on the word of Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich. Well, I want you to know that we're releasing a newspaper because there's no freedom of speech, and we're going to deliver a newspaper to every apartment where it's written, who voted for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluku. Mikhail Mikhailovich, call the repair number right away and we'll listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u148	Thank you, Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, Fatherland. I've got 173. 173 revisions, which refer to the subject that had already been discussed by colleagues earlier in the case of young workers. We propose to exclude from the draft article 1 paragraph 10 as follows: "A young worker, a Ukrainian citizen under 35 years of age, a graduate of a vocational and technical education institution or a vocational higher education institution, which in the 6-month period after completion of education has been self-employed or under the direction of an education establishment and continues to work for 3 years at the qualification he acquired during his studies, including regardless of the first place of employment." We suggest that we support and protect young professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u149	Yeah, I love our DNS. Galina Mikolayevna, give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u150	The point is, in the Ukrainian Youth Policy Act, there's already a definition of "youth," and that's why the committee didn't introduce the concept of "youth" in this bill, because it's defined in another. That's what this is about. Thank you. That's why it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u151	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 173 of the amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:13:29]] For-74. Decision taken. Mikhail Mikhailovich, do you have much more?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u152	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. 179. 179 refers to the need for expulsion from the bill, the deletion from article 14, paragraph 2, of the first part of the Ukrainian Employment Act, of the words "persons who have reached the age of 15 and who, by the consent of one of the parents or the person who replaces them, may, as an exception, be admitted to work." We believe that the removal of such a standard is unfounded and will lead to a deterioration of youth employment and contradict article 22 of the Constitution, which provides that when new laws are adopted or changes are made to existing ones, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. I'm asking you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u153	179th, right? 179 The amendment of Cimbaluk and Timoshenko was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:14:57]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Mikhailovich, what do you have? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u154	183 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u155	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u156	183 It is necessary to exclude from the draft the removal of part two and part three of paragraph 10 on the employment of the population as follows: "For the employment of those involved in the first article of this article, except those with disabilities who have not reached retirement age, the establishment of Article 26 on the general government pension provision of employment standards with the number of employees of enterprises of more than 20 persons is set at a quota of 5 per cent of the average number of employees in the previous calendar year." We think we should keep the standard, and that would help support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u157	Please 183 revisions by Timoshenko, Cimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:16:34]] For-73 The decision is not taken. [[12:16:34]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u158	Puziczuk was next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u159	Puzichuk. Please, Andrew Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Amendment number 22. Dear colleagues, this bill is fundamentally changing the approach to solving the problem of unemployment. Instead of supporting the unemployed, it focuses on compensation for employers for employment. Compensation is a really good incentive, but it reduces the unemployment pay from 70 to 50 percent. In the meantime, just before possible, there may be some effect on support in the form of compensation. Colleagues, even in less complex circumstances, should carefully consider the matter. And now, during the war, when many people lost their jobs, it's totally unacceptable. I ask you to put my amendment to the vote and Galina Mikolayevna to explain why unemployment is falling from 70 percent to 50 percent in inflation in the country and instead of support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u161	22 Puzichuk Correction. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[12:18:14]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Puziczuk, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u162	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I am addressing you, and Parliament is the place of discussion, and the citizens of Ukraine, and the voters, including those who lost their jobs as a result of full-scale armed aggression, it is important to hear the answer to the question: why unemployment payments are cut down, why, instead of 70 percent, 50 percent is lost if the country has high inflation, people lose their jobs, including as a result of broken businesses. Listen, if you look at job search sites, today the number of applicants per country on average per vacancy is 15 people, before the war it was 5-7. Indeed, an increase in unemployment payments will result in expenses, additional public expenditure, but this is to support people in such a difficult time. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u163	26 Puzichuk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:19:43]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Any more repairs? Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u164	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Amendment number 30. Honorary colleagues, article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, clearly states that the adoption of new laws or amendment of existing laws does not limit the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. By the way, the Constitution’s rule of law has been violated several times in its conclusion. I propose to exclude the situation that increases the length of the insurance period for the appointment of unemployment benefits. Galina Mikolayevna, explain why this bill directly violates article 22 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u165	Galina Mikolayevna, explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u166	Thank you. I'll explain. There is a difference between social security and social insurance. The narrowing of rights under this law is not foreseen, but the fear - inspiring principles are becoming stronger. We've introduced a six-level. Depending on what kind of person you are. The more the insurance, the more the payoff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u167	Thank you. Did you hear your argument? 30 Puzichuk correction, it's rejected. So please identify and vote. [[12:21:31]] For-67 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's just that the DSN sends a greeting to all of you. Since you are many, each one is sent separately. Please, what's next? Andrew Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u168	Amendment number 41. Galina Mikolayevna, I agree with you that the project really changes the conditions and duration of unemployment payments. The duration of payments decreases and actually varies depending on the length of the insurance period. As a result, today's payments will be much lower, and this is now against the backdrop of a sharp rise in prices for goods of primary necessity and under the terms of state cuts, mostly by the majority of employers, not to mention those businesses where people lost their jobs. Well, listen, if a young expert lost his job, he worked six months or a year, but he lost his job by destroying his business, he'll get less than he could get today. Well, what's the point? Where is the protection of Ukrainian citizens? Where is the support of people during the war?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u169	The amendment of 41 Puzichuk national deputies is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:23:10]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Please, Andrew Puziychuk. What's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u170	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 49th Amendment, I'm done. Dear colleagues, if you do not listen to your colleagues, to the opposition, at least read the conclusion of the General Legal Department and note how many times it points out violations of the Constitution, particularly in the revisions to article 22, which reduce payments. I quote: "The proposed amendments to article 22 of the Act do not meet the requirements of part three of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prevent the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed by the adoption of new laws or amendments to existing laws. Dear colleagues, don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u171	Thank you. 49 Puzichuk's correction, it's rejected. Please identify and vote, colleagues. And after that, I take it, we're going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please invite the deputies to the hall. For 49 amendments, vote. [[12:24:30]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken on this bill. We can move on to making a decision. Thank you, colleagues. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Take your seats, please. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on employment reform, social insurance for unemployment, promoting productive employment, including young people, and introducing new active labour market programmes (project number 6067). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:54]] For 238. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the following bill 5795: draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the application of the work of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine. Are there those who would insist? They will, won't they? From Voice, I see who it is. Engine, please. Tell me about the repair number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u172	Dear Head, I have 23 amendments to the unaccepted, I'll ask for about 10 minutes instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u173	Up to 10. Okay, let's give it 10 minutes, and then we vote. But you can finish faster. So, colleagues, please don't leave. Please, Grunchkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u174	I made corrections, and my amendments were rejected in part by the permission to employ foreigners. And I'd like to say that I would insist on them, but now is not the time. War is the reason. The war itself has caused the largest number of applicants to one job in Ukraine right now, so we're not going to accept it now, and we're going to ask for a vote in favour of this bill, although we think it's not too perfect. Not on time, but when? If this bill were only planned for wartime, then it would be understood that later rules would change, but I want to say that if we called this permission the right one, namely: we would call it a ban on employment, because in the natural state of the permit it is usually a prohibition to employ people, then in that case we would have a completely different situation, and we would very clearly understand why we have such a low place in the Doing Business, in the rating. I want to remind you that a single growth rate for Doing Business causes about 6 billion foreign direct investment into the country. Also in preparing these amendments, we held very many consultations and even met with local authorities responsible for regulating these relations, because there would be enough silent agreement or a reporting principle for all the functions of the State. And I'm talking about immediately Bendukidze, who said, "If you don't know what to do, cancel this legal institution and see if it collapses." Well, nothing's going to happen. And most people in this room also agree that things are not going to collapse. But I wanted to give you an example, even in times of peace, we didn't have much of an increase in job offers in our country. Why? Because when a Ukrainian becomes an entrepreneur or an employer, he immediately stops at the wheel of bans or permits, as we have in this case. And I welcome, of course, the desire of the authors of this bill to improve the situation, but to improve the continued legislation of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic is not as productive as it is for me. And I'm offering everyone a little investigation. So we looked for where the legs were growing. This permission was proposed by the Act amending the Ukrainian Employment Act in 97. A brief sample of the explanatory note: The adoption is based on the need to bring into line the existing legislation on the provision of workable young people first place in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine. Today, those who receive a free diploma do not have the right to work, you hear, this is still the case, it falls out of the youth employment information field. Often, too, when graduates are sent as a mere formal act and there is no information on the hardening of graduates in the workplace. I think most who listened to this quote smelled the smell of a planned economy. But of course, these conditions changed long ago, and this law came into existence in God’s eyes. The law that accepted this work permit also fell into God’s hands. And the permit lives, Hallelujah, the permit continues to live. And I want to explain why, because the procedure for adopting the amendments to this bill has led us to have a round table, where we all got together nicely, that there is no basis for the introduction of a permit. But then there was a working group, where there were hardly any national MPs, but all the government was represented. And so the conclusion of this working group. Most of us, most of us, have argued for the need for this permission, we will simplify it as much as possible, we will dijitalize it and so on. So the greatest danger in this is that we don't even violate the balance of deterrence and opposition, and we pass on the right of legislative initiative or the law-making of bills to others, not in the middle of a parliamentary mandate. So the official decides for himself what permission to leave, and here, you know, the hurrah is still there, right? All the arguments that were in favour of leaving the employment permit for foreigners are broken down by the strategy of the Ukrainian Migration Service, which was adopted by the 25th year. And I want to read you the purpose of this strategy briefly. The goal of the strategy is to focus the efforts of the state and society on the formation and implementation of State migration policies that will positively influence the consolidation of the Ukrainian nation and the security of the state, accelerate socio-economic development, and contribute to the slowdown of the rate of depopulation. Look, we're planning to slow down the depopulation rate. No increase, I'm afraid. Stabilising the quantity and quality of the population, meeting the needs of the economy in the workforce. Of course, later on I'm going to submit a bill to reverse this rudimentary and invite all of my thinkers to join in with the bills that abolish the rest of the Soviet system in our legislation and that cause the employer to always be followed and to stand in a position that is not desirable in this country. But life will make us go back to that question, for after victory we will need many workers, a lot of labor, and including a low - cost labor force. And it would be very good if these people, the hardworking people we have, stayed in Ukraine, taught their children in Ukrainian schools, became Ukrainians, and then Ukraine should be the largest or largest European state not only geographically, Ukraine should be a great state, both in the direct and figurative sense of the word. I invite everyone to vote in favour of this bill. But immediately join in the elimination of such rudiments as the permission to employ foreigners in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u175	You're done, aren't you? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, and we'll move on to the decision-making process. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Ready? People's deputies please take their seats. I'm announcing an offer. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the application of the work of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine (registration number 5795). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:21]] For 266 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The following Bill 6458: Draft Law on the Implementation of a Comprehensive Reconstruction of Areas (Microregions) of an Old Housing Fund. It's the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:35:59]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? We will. Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u177	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, the draft law proposes to determine the legal, economic, social and organizational principles for a comprehensive reconstruction of neighborhoods or microregions of an outdated housing fund. You know, if this bill were to be accepted for war, we would definitely support it and it would definitely be on time. But what an old foundation today, when, excuse me, if people have five floors, it is, yes, old, but it has gas, light, windows, roof and they live normal, and you want to spend now on it when we have tens of thousands of lives destroyed throughout the country: east, south, north, Kyiv region, Chernigivsk, Sumska. And you know, given that Russian aggressors have destroyed a large number of housing units, we think that this initiative is definitely not on time. The first step is to have a legislative initiative to provide housing for the victims, to restore what is destroyed, because people have no windows, people have no roofs, people have no doors, and we take something for some builders. "European Solidarity" is not going to support this right now. And you know, just read while the discussion is going on, into the text of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u179	Please, Bujansky Maksim Arkadyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u180	Please pass the word to Oleni Shulak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u181	Helen Aleksyevna Schulak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a government bill that has indeed been tabled to Parliament by the government before the war and answers the very important questions that have not been settled in Ukraine since 2006. There is a law on the reconstruction of neighborhoods, and there is no mechanism to work and to allow for the reconstruction of old housing. To this day, it's very easy and easy to cover up with the words "not in time." But to this day, we must give the Ukrainians an answer and how Ukraine will be restored after our victory. By what rules, by what standards will we build a new vessel? By what standards will we restore old neighborhoods? What will be the requirements for energy efficiency? What will be the security requirements? How will we use European experience and European standards? I ask everyone to support this bill, which will be further developed for the second reading, in keeping with the problems that are currently in the residential area in the housing fund. And we know today that through the state portal, the Act has been submitted by citizens of Ukraine to applications for damaged and damaged housing, that's more than 17.5 million square meters. And that is why this law will set a framework for the restoration of a new and modern European Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Eutuszek, the "Fatherland" faction. I understand he's handing Alexia over to Yuriovich Kucherenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u184	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues and distinguished Mrs. Oleno, colleague, in 2005, here on this rostrum, 17 years ago, 18 years ago, as head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities in the government of Tymoshenko at the time reported this law in the first reading. We actually saw the very real possibilities of launching this full-scale program of complex modernization and reconstruction of obsolete housing, because it had more than just architectural and technical issues. Here's the key question: at what cost we can actually reconstruct an old housing fund, which is now about 60 percent. Because you realize that the poorest of our people live alone in these houses, and they don't pull the upgrade program, the renovations, the reanimation program themselves. And it's got to be a government program that defines government finances, local finances, investors' money, and so on. You may realize that in Kiev this program should move in its direction. There would be no budget, if Kiev had not gone in the stalemate of the block, when instead of a comprehensive block of the neighborhood being allowed to build a candle, there was someone making tens and twenty million dollars, but I'm sorry, the investment potential was gone. And now we're essentially saying that it didn't move, it didn't move, it didn't move. We are ready to support and help you because we know how to do it. But remember, without the new modern - day Housing Code, this problem cannot be solved because we have no solution to the issue of ownership and land. We're ready to work with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u185	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask a colleague to come and we'll make a decision on this bill. Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u186	It's been a while since we heard Vitaliy Bezgin. Please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u187	It's been a while since we heard Vitaly Bezgin. Where is he? Please, Vitaly Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u188	Yes, thank you Jaroslav for the extravagant pass. Colleagues, in fact, wrote the bill as a ministry of war, but the war had a little bit of emphasis on both local self - government and territorial communities interested in making such a tool available to be used during the period of restoration. And really, here's the key point, that when we say about, let's say, Soviet heritage in our neighborhood, there's no point in restoring and building in the same style. Of course, we have to put in place better practices in the world, in Europe, that is particularly what our international partners are stressing and insisting on. Therefore, the request to support the bill today will certainly continue to be improved and will be even better suited to the period of restoration of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft law on the implementation of a comprehensive reconstruction of the old housing fund (registration number 6458) in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:25]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let's move on, fellow officers, next bill 7632. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the exemption from real estate tax, other than land, for destroyed or damaged immovable property. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss this? Then I suggest we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:45:06]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against the discussion. Do you want the presentation to be? Okay. Helen Aleksyevna Schulak will then report. Then Danilo Alexandrovich of the committee's report. And Danilo Aleksandrovitch is from both the authors and the committee. Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, we are presenting a bill today that may not be perfect. We discussed it for a long time on the committee and accepted it for our first reading on a conditional basis. are recommended to be based on the condition that the second reading is further developed. But it's obvious to everyone that the problem that the bill solves exists. This is about the real estate that needs to be decided politically: it is still property destroyed or damaged by the aggression of the Russian Federation; the real estate that is in both occupied territories and in the war zone; and the real estate that is not in the war zone but is somewhere in Western Ukraine, but is destroyed by the attacks. The second question. Should the person who lost his residence pay a tax for the 21st year, if this apartment no longer exists, can we take that tax off of it? It's a matter of more morality and more politics than right, because by law, we really have to take that tax. And that's why we recommended adopting this law as a basis for having a broad discussion before second reading with all the political forces, with the public, and making the right decision, addressing all the issues surrounding the taxation of property in our country that was affected by armed aggression. I believe that the first reading should be supported and further discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, we can sign up now: two in, two in, two in. Please sign up, colleagues, and discuss this important bill. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mikhajlovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u192	Please give it to Juliana Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u193	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u194	Fellows, why are we being so dishonest in relation to each other? This bill is a powerful example of uncertainty, incoherence, even chaoticity. Today, there's a tax code that was adopted together in this room in March months, that the 21st real estate tax is not paid in the 22nd year by natural persons if their real estate is in a zone where fighting or fighting is taking place and if their property is damaged. Two categories, they're different because if there's damage to property from impact and there's no fighting, that's also the category of property that's exempt from real estate taxes. This is the norm. The list of areas where fighting or fighting is taking place should be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as by the criteria for determining what damaged property is. At the end of September today, nothing has been done in Kiev. I don't know, you don't get paid by payers that they still haven't got a pennies tax on real estate? Well, they call me all the time, and I didn't get it. Because some of the taxpayers did the crediting, put them in the payer's office, and some of them didn't, because they're waiting for these lists that I told you about. This bill doesn't specify the norm, and he wants to throw away all the people he's told you won't pay. Does this tax depend on whether I used this property? I can't pay, I'm not in Ukraine. The whole of Kiev is considered an area where fighting took place. What are you saying now? That people have already spent their taxes on immovable property, making these changes that you are proposing? Not in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u195	Please give the floor to the national deputy to Black Dmitri Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Oleni Alexiyevni Schulak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u197	Helen Aleksyevna Schulak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u198	An example of a cynical sequence where business today has destroyed commercial areas, Ukrainian citizens have destroyed housing, but we have such a tax code that they have to pay the property tax. This bill. And they keep paying him, Nina Petrovna. I have been approached by business representatives, representatives of associations, by the way, by letters from the European Business Association to Parliament, citizens are calling on the Supreme Council to address the issue of damaged and damaged property, to which this tax is due today. And I think it's our duty with you to do second reading, as the head of the tax committee has said, and to adopt a just decision for all those who have suffered and are unable to use their property right now to use it, to run business and everything. I'd like a colleague to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u199	Please. Yes, of course. Nina Petrovna, one minute of the lineup, then the Ironman, and then we go to the vote. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, so that you can understand clearly the tax code. The legal persons in charge of the real estate tax account for themselves. According to the Code of Tax Code, they provide clarifications regarding the real estate tax in the two categories of territories, two for which they are exempt from payment. First of all, for those who don't know. With regard to natural persons, the standard is clearly stated. This is an instruction to the tax authority that administers this order. Therefore, if the Cabinet of Ministers has not developed two orders, you should ask questions to your executive body, not to the Supreme Council. We can read, and we know tax laws well. Make a commitment to Kabin to take the necessary action, and that's all. The issue will be settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u201	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, then one minute Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, and we vote, distinguished colleagues. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u202	Let me do this very briefly. Dear Helen Schulak, the problem is not really in the Tax Code. Indeed, at the beginning of the war, we adopted the standards that Nina Petrovna had just mentioned. The problem is the government. There are lists of areas where fighting or fighting is taking place. Your chairman of the committee, Danilo Getmants, Julia Didenko, I, the other colleagues have probably been waiting for this ruling from the Cabinet for months. She's not here, so they pay taxes. That's why your bill came out. Is he perfect? No, we have a lot of notes on the committee, but first reading is better than nothing. What's the problem? We have, apart from the areas where the fighting was taking place, well, of course, Isum, it is clear that there is no need for taxation. But there are other examples. Whoever was walking down Gruszewski's street, they saw we had a cafe called Illy. At least Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk, Jura Kamelchuk, appeared there very often. Now it's closed for access. They don't work, it's not like there's no fighting, it's not just going through, it's closed. So let's think logically, do we have to take taxes from him now or not? It doesn't work because there's no way in. It's just forbidden, so we don't have to tax it. And this bill is supposed to solve these problems. So there's a constructive logical proposition. It would be desirable for you, as a majority of you, to turn to the government, but it would still betray something. Everybody talks about this problem, business associations all the time. But will this bill make it worse? No, it's not. Is it possible and necessary to work on it? Yeah. So once again, there's a constructive proposal: we accept in the first reading, each faction delegates its representatives, we work together. At least, maybe we'll finally kick this decision out of the government, because the status quo, right now, it doesn't satisfy either the politicians or the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Then we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u204	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. There is indeed a problem, but it is very bad that there is no government representative to explain or acknowledge the guilt that colleagues have been talking about. This bill, for me, will not solve all the problems that exist. What about the land of the agricultural assignment now controlled by the rascals for the time being, and taxes to someone? What about the destroyed property and compensation for the movement, I mean, the power plant, etc.? So you have to admit there's a problem. How can it be resolved? - Let's talk about it. But the government is responsible for making these mistakes, not all of them to the Supreme Council. I don't think we should vote for such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, we have discussed all the issues related to this bill. Let us move on to making a decision about him. People's deputies please take their seats. And I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the exemption from real estate tax, other than land, for destroyed or damaged immovable property. Bill 7632 registration number. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:31]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill, 7559. This is a draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Air Code to ensure the stable functioning of the State Specialised Fund for the Financing of Public Expenditure on Aviation and Ukraine's participation in international aviation organizations. Let's talk about whether we can. Let's talk. Then I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:57:19]] For 234 Decision taken. Please sign up: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u206	Please, "Serve of the people," Schwaczko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u207	Please pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u208	Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u209	Comrades, good afternoon! The bill deals with civil aviation. The problem is that Russia’s full - scale aggression towards Ukraine has caused civil aviation problems. The only body that implements civil aviation policy and the use of airspace is the State Service. The funding of the State Service is made at the expense of the state’s specialized fund. The proceeds to the fund are the costs derived from passengers and cargo carried by aircraft. However, in connection with the war, transportation ceased and the fund was stopped. This led to the need to amend article 12 of the Air Code, and the only amendment is to supplement article 12 with the fifth possibility of completing the fund with grants, grants, and charity. This is the only change to the Air Code. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend the adoption of the law as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u210	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, the law is very simple. In fact, it is the filling up of a specialized fund to enable Ukraine to repay its debts to international organizations and to support civil aviation in general. It is usually filled with congregations from passenger transport. Since passengers have been transported since February of this year, we do not actually have a fund, so it is also empty, but it is necessary to pay international organisations and maintain the civil aviation sector in a row and properly prepare all documents if we want to fly even within a month of opening air space. And if we don't pay those fees now, then it's going to be very difficult to reinstate our membership in international organizations, it's going to be very difficult to pick up again, to put together all the documents in general, in order to speed up the air traffic. So, actually, please. We will support on the basis and in general, the law is very simple and we must meet our international obligations even during the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u212	Thank you. The Fed Sofia Romanovna, please, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u213	Please give my word to my colleague, Mikola Veliczovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u214	Mikola Romanovich Veličkovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, after a full - scale military incursion, our civil aviation sector faced great difficulties because it was impossible to fly. But as my colleagues really said, we still have to pay contributions to international civil aviation organizations. And that's why we think that if we want the aviation, the civil aviation that we do when we complete the military, we need to create conditions for this fund to finance Ukraine's international participation in civil aviation structures to be filled. So we urge everyone to support this bill on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u216	Thank you. Please. And I was told that instead of Yvchenk, there would be Sergey Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u217	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we are making changes in article 12 of the Ukrainian Air Code. It's clear here that since the beginning of the Russian Federation's invasion of Ukraine, in principle, all of us are suffering from normal work, more faithful, abnormal work because of the damage. But the air sector, it basically shuts down, and we have clear guidelines that we need to reinforce by coming to the specialized fund. I will tell you right away that this 12th article changes and gives grants to both the physical and legal persons of other organizations the opportunity to provide their support, since this fund was being filled at the expense of every passenger from whom the contributions were made, also for every ton of cargo that was transported both to Ukraine and Ukraine. And this enabled Ukraine to participate in international aviation civil action. I'm going to say right now that there's probably no point in the second reading or the second reading to make any adjustments, it's clear. So the "Fatherland" faction has decided to support this bill and to support the initiative of the committee to vote on this legislation both on the basis and on the whole. Let the fund pay off various financial revenues, and this will enable our aviation public service to receive salaries and participate in international civil aviation operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, and we'll make decisions about him. I'm just informing you that all the speakers have confirmed their willingness to vote on the basis as a whole. Is there no objection to that? None. So I'm going to make the first offer. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Air Code to ensure the stable functioning of the State Specialised Fund for the Financing of Public Expenditure on Aviation and Ukraine’s Participation in International Aviation Organizations (project registration number 7559). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:17]] For 264 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Air Code to ensure the stable functioning of the State Specialised Fund for the Financing of Public Expenditure on Aviation and Ukraine's Participation in International Aviation Organizations (project registration number 7559). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:57]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill we're looking at today is 5120. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Convention on Agreements for the Choice of Courts. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? Nobody. We can go to the vote for this bill. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Convention on the Agreements for the Selection of the Court (Registration No. 5120). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:04]] For 271 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill (this is the first reading), Bill 6482. And, look, colleagues, we're going to have this agenda today to finish: 6482, then 7607, then the proposal to take a decision that is now being signed in the hall, is about the response of the Supreme Council to what we heard this morning, and then to move on to the budget hearing. No objections, colleagues? Then we actually have four more questions, and I think we're going to solve today's agenda. Dear colleagues, 6482, I'm sorry. I'm making an offer. This is a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. So I'm going to make an offer to consider this issue in a simplified way. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:11]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please give the floor to the national MP Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u219	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u220	Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u221	Honorable colleagues, distinguished bureaux, distinguished Ukrainian women! Now 50,000 women are defending our country in the ranks of the Armed Forces, 5,000 of them are defending our country directly on the front. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And all of them, I emphasize, all of them do it voluntarily. They do it voluntarily. Sadly, then, the norm that has been in force since October 1, 2023, obliges them to make military payments is demeaning to them. Our Armed Forces don't need it. It creates extra stress on the military assembly centers, it creates pressure on society, the nervousness of society, it's playing at the hands of our enemy. This bill suggests that women be on the military payroll voluntarily. It preserves the standard of previous working rules for women who have a medical profession, but if the committee decides, before the second reading, we will remove it. I'm asking everyone to press the "For" green button. Thank you. For our women.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u222	The word is given to Ion's Mary Mikolayevna, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u223	Thank you very much. I would like to remind myself that military accounting is part of mobilization training, which, in turn, is also an integral part of a set of mandatory measures, but which are being implemented to ensure the defence of the state. But if this bill is adopted, it generally loses its content on women's military records, since women have the right to volunteer to be admitted to military service or to service in the military reserve. So it needs a lot of changes in this law, it needs a definition of the notion that there is a specialty or profession that is related to medical activity, so the use of the word "comparation" can be interpreted very differently. And because of how ambiguously this rule could be applied. I would also like to remind you that, after all, it is not possible to agree to separate the draft amendments to this law from women who have a specialty or profession and to establish compulsory military accounting just for this specialty. So there's a lot, maybe, yes, abuse. Similarly, the project does not provide for changes to legislation in other measures, there are personnel, there are schools, there are organizational ones, which would actually ensure that women acquire the skills of military service to defend the state. So let's not forget that the Mini-Defense Command, they've deferred women to the military account for a year. So we have time to talk and, let's say, change that in view of the need for the defense of the state to take charge of women. So we have to understand that this has to be comprehensively regulated at the legislative level. So I would like to settle first and then accept it so as not to make chaos and interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u224	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I think it's just a case where all men, regardless of factions and groups, have to vote, and our fellow students, ladies of the people, have the opportunity to decide. Too bad we won't be able to vote on this law in general, I've heard that there's already a remark. But this law must be passed as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. And then we move on to making decisions about this law. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u227	Please pass the word to the members of our faction, Inni Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u228	Please, Inno Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u229	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, the question of who and how it becomes a military bill should be adequately addressed in line with, first and foremost, the defence needs of the Ukrainian State. And I'm sure all Ukrainian citizens are willing to defend the Ukrainian state when they understand their place of appointment in this defense system. And actually, right now, we need to understand clearly what this defense plan is going to be like and how much women or men are going to need. So I think it is now necessary to adopt this law in order to remove the tension that is linked to the misunderstanding of why we should be on the bill if there is no mobilization. But I would urge a colleague in the hall, especially men, not to talk about saving Ukrainian women, especially men who are here in the hall, not on the front. Let us avoid such claims that you need to save a weak sex. Because, as I recall, the initiator of the bill said, 50,000 Ukrainian women are already saving us, and let's thank them for doing that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, we have considered this bill, we have discussed it, we are moving on to making decisions. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (registration number 6482). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:13]] For 267 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline and the amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:39]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill, 7607. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the formation and implementation of State policy on the protection of critical infrastructure. Dear colleagues, 7607. Please invite Alexander Mikhailovich Zavajnevich. Will someone make adjustments? There'll be someone. Yes, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u231	I only have 20 amendments, so basically. No, no, I understand your surprise, I'll take 3 minutes to tell you about my 20 unaccounted amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u232	Beautiful. We'll be happy to hear it, Julia Leonidova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u233	Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u234	First, turn around, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you what this law is about. This law that you and I had adopted six months ago the Critical Infrastructure Act, a very complicated and difficult law, it went on two readings, there were many rights, and it talked about what needed to be created. This law spoke of the need to create a register of critical infrastructure. So we should have an understanding of what our enterprises in the private and public sectors are critical to defence and security. After that, they should be evaluated annually or on the basis of 3-5 years. And then depending on whether this enterprise is critical or not, there's a list of different, let's say, procedures and actions that need to be done, for example, by the owner of a private enterprise, maybe an energy-generating, maybe a transport that relates to critical infrastructure. So this law was passed, and according to this law the Cabinet of Ministers had to create an authority authorized to develop a register, as well as all procedures for the recognition of a private enterprise (pay attention!) in the private or public sector, critical infrastructure, with adequate protection, annual evaluation, appropriate actions to be taken by this enterprise in order to protect and properly operate as a critical infrastructure undertaking. But since the Cabinet of Ministers did not find a government authority to play the role of authorized critical infrastructure, they decided to put, very creatively, this function of the State Department — an enterprise that actually engages in communication, communication (attention!), it has nothing to do with nuclear energy or energy-generating enterprises, transport companies, railways, and many other critical sectors. I mean, in our country now, all the businesses in the state (pay attention!) and the private sector will be involved in the Sustainable Development. An enterprise with no analysts, no profile specialists, no understanding at all what to do with critical infrastructure, maybe the best they can do is register. But the register should be made, not by Dergespecies, but by the PNB, which is responsible for the security of our country, That's why we're certainly not going to support this law, because it's full of propaganda, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we're going to create additional corruption schemes that are now going to be led by other government bodies that have no expertise at all and nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u236	Thank you. Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u237	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll give you a quick answer. This is where I support one part of our classmate, and the other part doesn't. Yes, I really do confirm that this happened, for the beginning of the war in the Cabinet of Ministers, there was no way to form this authorized body. Once again, this new authority was planned, which, really after the end of the war, after we have won, will be formed with you, as clearly spelled out in the law. But yet right now, for now, we all have ministries, you know, there are seals, there are personalities, there are leaders in them who are ready to take on this kind of, in the course of the war, of course, necessity, yes, that we have to save this situation. In fact, we talked about this bill at the concording councils and we said that let's form this holding relationship, by the way, who has one of the main competences is the cyberprotector, and this register will be formed, which is very important to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And for 12 months after the end of this organ and this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u238	Thank you. We're not putting anything to the vote, we're moving on to a decision. Right, colleagues? Okay. Honorary colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the design and implementation of State policy in the area of the protection of critical infrastructure (registration number 7607). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:43]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you, let's re-enter the second so that we can work with this. Dear colleagues, I propose that Bill 7607 be sent back to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:19]] For 238. Decision taken. Another second. Thank you, colleagues. Dear friends, let's move on to one more question: this is a statement from the Supreme Council. I'm going to ask everyone to stay put, because it's important, and it's going to be offered by some kind of mechanism. Presentation, reading statements from each faction and group for two minutes, and moving to a vote for that decision. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we agreed with factions and groups. Please, Hero out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote for the next one. To put Parliament's leadership in charge, this discussion, which is extremely important, political, comes to a full extent in the network of the "Rada" network in the marathon. Because Ukrainians need to know that Parliament is not just working, but that we have a concerted position on our actions on the inadmissibility of holding pseudoferendums and we will fight on our place, on the diplomatic front, in Parliament to strengthen the Ukrainian army and protect Ukrainian territories. So it's very important that, in full terms, this is both the speech of the Head of the Supreme Council and the discussions of all the factions come out in the network of the Council. Because our constituents of all factions are asking whether the Parliament is working or what it is doing. Because it's crazy when the Office of the President's clerics are in this slot every day, and there's no Parliament. That's why I'm offering the vote to get everything, the slot.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u240	Irina Volodymyrna, look, you're out of procedure. What do you want me to vote on? We can vote -- make decisions or decisions, honourable colleagues. All right, let's get to it. Dear national MPs, today in international. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, today on International Peace Day, the next phase of the escalation of the security situation in the world, provoked by the latest decisions of the Russian Federation criminal power. The leaders of the MP factions and groups signed a statement under the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the aggressive and criminal acts of the Russian Federation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues! Let's think about what you want, and then we'll look at it, but first let's look at the determination. And let's not put the mouse in front of the car. Please, Your Honor, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the eighth session of the Draft Decision (Registration No. 8065) on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the next phase of the escalation of the security situation in the world caused by the recent decisions of the Russian Federation’s criminal authority. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:25:57]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have accepted this order of the day. First, a statement is read that everyone understands what, then every faction and group has a two-minute opportunity to make a decision about it, and then we make a decision. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u241	He is invited to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u242	Thank you, Your Honor. I will, with your permission, read the fruits of our joint work that we have been able to do. I thank my deputies, I thank the committee, I thank all the leaders of factions and groups and all those who have joined in preparing this statement. So, with your permission, I'm going to sound it completely so that we can understand what's going on. A statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the next phase of the escalation of the security situation in the world caused by the latest decisions of the Russian Federation’s criminal power. For more than six months now, both Ukraine and its people have been grappling with the cynical full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation, accompanied by unprecedented war crimes and crimes against humanity, acts of genocide of the Ukrainian people. The Russian Federation continues the annexation of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine through the holding of so - called referendums by carrying out large-scale armed aggression against Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine considers the decision of the Russian Federation's occupation administrations in the temporarily occupied parts of the Lugansk, Donetsk, Hersonsk and Zaporez areas to hold pseudoferendums to join the Russian Federation, which defiantly violates the basic norms and principles of international law, the Constitution of Ukraine and the rule of law, as well as against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine. Such actions by the Russian Federation are a continuation of Russian annexation and are used as a means of political pressure of Russian criminal power on the world community and allow the Russian Federation to continue terrorizing the world with threats to the use of nuclear weapons, thereby putting not only the European continent but also all mankind in general at direct risk. At the same time, the world must realize that there is a real threat of damage to Ukraine’s nuclear facilities as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression that violates international nuclear law, the nuclear and radiation security requirements. The decision of the President of the Russian Federation to announce partial mobilization demonstrates the deepening and expansion of the criminal intentions of the Russian authorities regarding Ukraine. Partial mobilization is evidence of a new wave of escalation of Russian armed aggression and will lead to an increase in the scale of war against Ukraine, which will have devastating consequences for Europe as well as for the whole world, and is a further insolent violation by the Russian Federation of principles and norms of international law. In this regard and in the development of its previous statements regarding the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine stresses Ukraine’s inalienable right to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity. It condemns the organization and the holding of any illegal referendums in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and calls on the world community not to acknowledge their results and to give due weight to such actions by the Russian Federation. It calls on the world co-operation to take all possible measures to warn the aggressor State and its senior political leadership about the organisation and holding of illegal referendums in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the results of which will be worthless. It requires the involvement of the Russian Federation, its political and military leadership, in the responsibility of violating international law and committing war crimes, crimes against humanity, and the genocide of the Ukrainian people. It calls for further severe sectoral, financial and personal sanctions against the Russian Federation and its leadership to halt its armed aggression against Ukraine and deepen further escalation and threats to the security situation in Europe. It calls on the governments and parliaments of foreign partner states to contribute to the strengthening of Ukraine's security, economic and financial stability and to increase the provision of comprehensive, including defence and military technical assistance aimed at strengthening the ability of the Ukrainian State to respond to the worsening of the security situation by the Russian Federation, to create an effective mechanism for drawing the responsibility of the Russian Federation, its political and military leadership for violations of international law and the commission of war crimes, crimes against humanity, in accordance with international law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this statement by the Supreme Council. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u243	Please sign up from factions to one person from the faction in the rostrum. Please, Friz, "European Solidarity." Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u244	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The faction of "European Solidarity" was now expecting to hear the words of apology before the co-head of our faction, before a colleague and in front of the woman of the national deputy Heratchenko. The Ukrainian people are now demonstrating unity, and in this room we must demonstrate unity and responsibility. Today, when the festival of the Second Purgatory, when the International Day of Peace, the dictator maniac declared his blemish. I want to explain what that means and what made him do it. First. This is the unity and courage of the Ukrainian people. The other one. This is the courage and heroism of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Third. This is the world coalition to support Ukraine, which is being demonstrated by our partners. Four. The helplessness of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, which was suppressed by the Ukrainian Armed Forces in Ukraine in our operations. And today they're forced to mobilize rabbits, rapists, abandoned ones, and they're broken too -- bring in new ones. And they're announcing mobilization. We're confident that this is also a powerful mediation for the Russians when they have to realize that this is no military operation -- it's a full-fledged war that they've paid for and paid for. Partners – give more arms, sanctions and funding to Ukraine! UN -- remove Russia from the Security Council! NATO -- welcome Ukraine to NATO! Give us a plan of action for membership. And Putin, get out of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u245	The word is given to Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, I think that someone in the world may think that this decree of Putin and his address is a demonstration of strength. Well, frankly, this is a demonstration of an already extreme weakness when any action is replaced by just some kind of threatening word. When our army was victorious in returning our territories, Putin had three outputs in fact. First. Swallow and keep quiet. And that's what he wanted to do. That's how it went down. But his own environment, a radical wing, just pushed him to do something, because it already looked like a total and such a disgraceful loss. The second thing he could have done. He could actually go to Ukraine and say that he's ready for any conditions, including capitalization of the Russian Federation, and sign something with us. But that would be just an announcement to the world that this is the end. And then he only had a third path left -- to melt his legs, his fists, his escalation, his scary statements, his cool edicts. Dear friends, and what partial mobilization is, let's figure it out. Did she say we haven't had all these months while he's fighting us? That anyone in the world would let him use tactical nuclear weapons? Many warnings against this and protection have already been built. I just want to tell you that we certainly have to pay attention to all of this, but to do our job. No peace agreements, no concessions, no weakness, only victory in the battlefield, victory in Ukraine and all will be Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u247	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, here comes Misogyn Yuri Mihajlovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u248	Yegor Chernev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u249	Cherniev Yegor, please. Yegor Cherniev, "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u250	Good afternoon, dear fellows! 210 days, they take three days of Kiev. For 210 days, Ukraine has been violently opposed to the Russian Federation. Something must have gone wrong with them. They were trying to take us with a 200,000 army. It didn't work. It's already 50 in packs, another 100 with no limbs. They are trying to influence our partners to disintegrate the anti -putist coalition. They were trying to blackmail grain, they were trying to blackmail nuclear. nuclear nuclear power station. Now they're trying to blackmail nuclear weapons. Now they've gone through panic, because they can't do anything on the battlefield, hold referendums, and supposedly bring these Ukrainian lands into the Russian Federation to protect them with nuclear weapons. But that's not gonna happen. There will be no recognition of Russian referendums, and there will be no legitimate right to use nuclear weapons in the Russian Federation. What they're doing right now is this mobilization, this partial mobilization, this is just agony. And we'll beat another 300,000, our Armed Forces. We will not give in to any blackmail, nor will our partners give in. And Crimea, Donbas, Zaporezka, and Herson will be released, and Putin will lose again. And we have no other way. Ukraine or death. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u251	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. I get it right, don't I? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, I am totally joining the previous speakers and I want to say that today, really, Putin signed his verdict. He signed his sentence as president of his country, he signed his sentence as an international one. Because when you go out and you start recognizing people's lands as your own and threatening to use nuclear weapons, that's the beginning of the end. There will be no more Russia, no more Putin, and only a matter of time before they fall apart. The funky mobilization, in fact, they were doing this, and that's what they're going to be doing right now, and it's not going to lead to anything. And we're seeing this in trouble in Russia itself. And what they're going to do is to smoke up the military, and that people are going out and they're not going to die in Ukraine. The Russians are just on paper willing to fight and kill us. They support war on warm couches. And when we have to go up and protect our Fatherland, they will never leave because they have nothing to protect. We have something to protect: we defend our democracy, we protect our country, we protect our families. They have nothing to protect but their bastard, who unfortunately heads their country. The only way is to end Putin's path and thus stop the fall and fall of Russia, which has now actually begun. That's why we only hope for our Armed Forces. We have nothing to fear; we will protect our lands to the end. And Putin, I don't think there'll ever be performances and handshakes again, even in Asian forums. This is a person who will no longer appear in the international arena. Therefore, we fully support our colleagues, and we will vote in favour. And I think we need to remind the world more often that this person.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u253	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u254	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! The "Trust" MP fully supports the basic content of the ruling. We think it's very timely. We turn to the international community of all the countries of the world, all the governments, on the one hand, that the actions carried out today by the representatives of the Russian Federation, the representatives of illegal entities in our occupied territories, these actions undermine the world's international situation and cause complications, lead to a new escalation, new suffering and the deaths of citizens. Today, we are grateful to our Armed Forces, who are doing everything they can to liberate the occupied territories in order to restore the territory, the territorial integrity of our nation, and our actions will continue to be fully supported by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Today, we pay attention to the need to ensure unity within our society, our country, and the world in order to win. And so that those who are responsible for the war in Ukraine will be punished accordingly. The "Trust" MP will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u255	Thank you. Please, I understand, instead of Mamaan Suto Choloevich, we'll have Pauline Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u256	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We support this draft decree, we're going to vote for it. We are confident that the time will come very soon when we will restore our territorial integrity and Kharkivska and Hersonska and Luhansk and Donetska and Crimea and Zaporezka will be in Ukraine. Our people and our territories will return and we will be able to build a successful country. I have no doubt, and we will make every effort to ensure that all Russian criminals led by Putin are held accountable. In Ukrainian, international courts, but anyone who commits a crime against humanity, who commits a crime against the Ukrainian family, the Ukrainian family, the Ukrainian child, will be punished. I want to thank from this rostrum the Armed Forces of Ukraine, every fighter, every officer who today is protecting the cost of his life and health of our country, Ukraine. I call on our Supreme Council to less compete in eloquence, more work, to adopt decisions that would help today, to support a Ukrainian soldier who today would support Ukrainian families who have lost everything but continue to believe, work and help protect our country. Today's decisions, effectiveness, operationalism depend not only on the country's fate, but, above all, on the fate of both the protector and the fate of the Ukrainian citizen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u257	The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the Party for the Future. And we'll have Dmitri, I understand. Please. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u258	Honorable colleagues in the free world find it hard to understand that all of this can take place in the 21st century. Nuclear blackmail and Nazism together as the only whole today actually show that it can fight against the human race, and the world cannot remain silent. The Russian Federation is destroying the structure of the world order formed after World War II. It's a Yaltic model of the world line, it's a Geneva model, it's a Helsinki model of human rights protection. And we see, and today we want to look to international society and society, what President Macron said today, about his words: that countries that refuse to take sides in the war against Russia are participating in the new Russian empire. And today the neutrality of such countries can be equal to crime against humanity. We're talking to liberal young Russia. Come out, protest today, because tomorrow may be too late. Stand up, fight for your freedom, freedom from Putin and his calling. Hitler, Mussolini, Milosevic, Hussein, Kadaffi, in fact, the share of all dictators in the world on the way out is the same, tragically the same, and logically the same. And the light in the dark always wins. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u259	Please give the final speech from the "Resurrection of Ukraine" group, Dmitri Artem Hennadijovich. Dear colleagues, after this we are voting, please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Any referendum in the territory of a sovereign, independent, independent Ukraine is a crime against the people of Ukraine, the state of Ukraine and against the international democratic community. No partial or full mobilization will break our spirit or frighten us, nor will it violate our plan to win Ukraine. It is also important to note to our international partners that the aggressor's statement of nuclear war is once again intensifying the signal of our joint struggle against the occupying country. The "Deliverance of Ukraine" Group supports the statement made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's gonna be Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, honourable members of the national parliament, I am voting for the adoption, in general, of the necessary technical and legal amendments, of the decree (registration No. 8065) on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the next phase of the escalation of the security situation in the world caused by the latest decision of the Russian Federation criminal authority. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:49:03]] For 272 Decision taken. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, now I'm going to give Oleni Kostovni. But I'm asking you very much, we're focused so far, given the situation that we are, we're still working in a single plenary session, we only know when our next meeting will be. But I'm asking all the national MPs at this time to be on the verge of reaching the Supreme Council, so that, in case it unfolds somehow, we can quickly gather at the Supreme Council and make all the necessary decisions. Therefore, I request that the next meeting we announce be held at the border close to the meeting place of the Supreme Council. Helen Kostvena.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u262	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, the power of Parliament is in our unity. This has just demonstrated our joint decision in support of our decision and the statement that you all supported and voted on. I want to go back with a proposal to just show it on the grid of our "Council" channel, please take this proposal, calmly, now without any comment. Let us show together that unity is the power of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to Helen Kostawny Kondratuk. Please vote. [[13:50:41]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, well, now one more question. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the presentation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Ukrainian National Budget Act of 2023. According to part three of article 154 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. In accordance with the Rules, the following procedure is proposed: submission of the draft State Budget by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine - up to 15 minutes, responses by the Minister of Finance to questions from the National Deputies - up to 10 minutes, a report by the Head of the Committee on Budget - up to 5 minutes, statements by representatives of the MPs and groups - up to 24 minutes (three minutes for the presentation), statements by the National Deputies - up to 6 minutes. It's only a matter of an hour. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u264	Ruslan Alexiyovich, request the Minister of Finance's response to questions of national MPs in 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u265	The point is that this procedure is provided for by the Rules, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich, well, in the Rules, that's not what I'm suggesting, that's how the Rules define it. Thank you. To present the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2023, I invite the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Sergio Mihajlovich Marchenka. Please, in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u266	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies, allow me to introduce you to the draft of the State Budget of Ukraine for 2023. I want to point out that this is the budget of a warring country that will bring us closer to victory. This budget was prepared in high degree of uncertainty, taking into account the conservative scenario of macroeconomic forecasting and the impact of the military situation and external factors. We all realize that Ukraine’s future today depends on our military. As of February 24, Ukraine’s economy has been operating in the face of unprecedented challenges, it is difficult to overestimate the extent of its destruction in Ukraine. The decline in gross domestic product in the first quarter accounted for 15 percent and 37 percent in the second quarter. But we have accepted this challenge with dignity, and since the beginning of the full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation, we have begun to take steps to macroeconomic stability and accumulation of financial resources to defend our nation. What have we been able to do? Since the first days of the war, we have a full treasury, tax, customs, the banking system, all the necessary payments are made. As part of negotiations with international partners, Ukraine has already received $19 billion in financial support, nearly 50 percent of which is grant money. By the end of the year, we are planning to raise about $17 billion in additional funding. At the expense of military bonds, 458 billion dollars have been borrowed. Arrangements have been reached with creditors to suspend debt payments by the end of 2024. This operation has given us an opportunity to save about $6 billion. Taxes and congregations increased. If the budget accounted for 45 billion dollars in April for the DPS, 65 billion dollars had already been added to the budget in August. During March, the service provided only 7 billion dollars, and in August, the refund on customs payments increased to 29 billion dollars. The security and defence sectors are fully funded, all social costs, pensions, teachers’ and medical salaries are financed, and forced displaced persons who have lost their jobs and housing are supported. Assistance has been provided to internally displaced persons to improve the cost of living for $35 billion. About 1 million people receive monthly payments. A small and medium-sized business support program is expanded. In particular, since the beginning of the war, 5-7-9 has issued loans worth 51 billion dollars and almost 13,000 contracts. I would like to point out that the consequences of the Russian Federation's criminal actions in Ukraine are felt by the whole world. This is, first of all, a drop in the growth rate of the economies of the world, a 1.1 percent drop in global economics. In Eurosona, the outlook for economic growth has been revised to a downward trend. This year, China’s lowest gross domestic product in 30 years is expected because of measures to combat coronaryism and bubbling in the real estate market. Many developed countries, such as Britain, Germany, Italy, and Eastern and Central Europe, are forecast to have recessions. It is estimated that the risk of recession in Eurosona increased to 80 percent next year. Secondly, there's a sharp rise in energy prices. Thirdly, food prices are rising. At first, the price of basic food has increased to 20 percent, resulting in an increase in the number of people living outside the poverty line, the threat of hunger, and the humanitarian disaster. Fourth, record inflation rates. In June of this year, inflation in the United States has reached a peak of 9.1 percent over the last 40 years. The same situation was observed in Britain — 10.1 percent. Inflation reached a record of 9.1 percent in August. The highest rates in Estonia are 25.2, Latvia, Lithuania. The income of developed countries’ bonds has increased. Developing countries are at the brink of default: Lebanon, Sri Lanka, Suriname and Zambia have already declared default as a result of the political crisis and the resignation of governments in many countries. Over the last six months, we've seen changes in governments in Britain, Sweden, Italy, Montenegro. The introduction by European countries of maximum prices for state energy regulation, particularly in Britain, has produced a separate compensation package for energy costs. The European Union is discussing the introduction of an income tax, including to energy companies. In EU countries, a minimum income tax of 15 per cent has been set up since 2023. After a full - scale invasion of the Russian Federation, many nations reviewed their own military budgets. Why am I telling you all this? We need to understand that it is very difficult to keep Ukraine in focus around the world, because our own problems and our own wallets and the problems of average citizens affect the politicians of countries that help us. So we need to be kept in our own estimates, we need to be mobilized, and we need to take effective measures to finance the budget, including the military. In doing so, it should be noted that the aggressor is better at war and sanctions than could have been expected. By the end of the year, the economy is projected to drop by only 6 percent. And we see that sanctions and restrictive measures are not enough. In energy resources, the aggressor country makes up to $1 billion a month, that's why. Every day. So in this environment, we're making a budget for the 23rd year. It is as objective as possible, it takes into account the risks identified, it has clear priorities, it is primarily to strengthen the security of the state and the social protection of citizens. For the main macroeconomic indicators. The following year we predict that there will be further military opposition to the aggressor, possible measures to destroy the infrastructure, complex logistics connections, and the migration of a large part of the population. But there is a gradual adaptation of business and citizens to new conditions. So for 2023, real GDP is projected to go up 4.6 percent, and this year, 33 percent of GDP is expected to go down. In nominal papers, we've calculated 6 trillion 310. 99 billion dollars, the pronunciation of exports of goods and services is 9.1 percent. With regard to the income of the general fund of the state budget. They are defined in the amount of 1 trillion 146.6 billion dollars, 64 billion dollars less than the planned figure of 2022, but 138 billion dollars more is expected for this year. Once again, I would like to emphasize that we are consistent supporters of tax stability during the war period. War is not the time for experiments, so the revenue was calculated from the current tax system. As far as individual taxes are concerned. In the following year, compared to this year's plan, we expect to see a fall in the net profit and dividends that are listed in the State Enterprise's budget, in the amount of 41 billion dollars, in the revenue tax, in the amount of 26 billion dollars. This reduction in revenue is due to the collapse or decline in economic activity of Ukrainian operators as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression. In doing so, we predict an increase of 49 billion dollars in domestic VAT and excise taxes in connection with the restoration of the consumer mood of citizens. As far as expenses are concerned. The general budget of the State budget is projected at $2 trillion,268.5 billion, which is less than the planned figure of 272.7 billion this year. Priority number one in the warlord's budget is defence expenditure, which will cost almost half of the budget next year. In the 2023 budget, the total national security and defence resource is 1 trillion 141 billion dollars or 17.18 percent of GDP. This is essentially the amount that is equal to the expenditure that our country normally had in previous years. According to the general budget, the planned defence funds are 1 trillion 6 billion dollars. This is mainly military-servicing money -- 564 billion dollars -- for the purchase and modernization of arms and military equipment -- 300 billion dollars, for food products -- 20 billion dollars, for construction, for housing -- 2 billion dollars. With a view to releasing resources for the security and defence sectors, it is envisaged to continue optimizing public budget expenditure. It is planned to reduce expenditure in all sectors and areas by 10 per cent in addition to a 10 per cent reduction in the budget this year, including by 11.6 billion dollars will be reduced costs for the maintenance of public authorities. The next priority is the social protection of the least protected citizens. The following year, 403 billion dollars are earmarked for pension payments, 233 billion dollars of financial security from the budget. Pensions for 10.7 million Ukrainian pensioners will be provided on time and in full. To support low-income families, 73 billion dollars. In particular, the provision of benefits and housing subsidies for housing and utility services is 38 billion dollars, the provision of government social assistance to low-income families is 15.5 billion dollars. The social protection of citizens in difficult circumstances is 66 billion dollars. In particular, providing assistance to internally displaced persons is 57.6 billion dollars. Child welfare is 27.3 billion dollars. Social protection for people and children with disabilities is 3.7 billion dollars. In support of war veterans, 6.8 billion dollars are planned. These are the directions for support: housing of almost 3,000 people -- 5.5 billion dollars, psychological aid, vocational adaptation and sanatorium treatment, and the development of veteran sports -- 540 million dollars. In the event of death or disability, a one - time allowance of 325 million dollars is paid. The Ukrainian Veteran Foundation has 245 million dollars. To create the National Military Memorial Cemetery, 65 million dollars. The education resource is set at 155 billion dollars. In particular, expenses will be directed towards paying salaries to teachers — $87.5 billion. To set up shelters and create safe conditions for students and teachers, 1.5 billion dollars. To restore the school bus park, 1 billion dollars. In addition, the cost of inclusive education, the publication and the acquisition of textbooks under the New Ukrainian School programme, the restoration of damaged and damaged educational institutions. The cost of $175.7 billion is included in the budget for health care. In particular, for the following year, the resources foreseen for the provision of salaries to health workers are not below the guaranteed level, preserving the quality of basic health care, the development of rehabilitation services, and psychological support services. The 2023 budget provides expenditure for the reconstruction of Ukraine and for the support of citizens and businesses. To eliminate the effects of hostilities and restore critical infrastructure, the housing fund has been created by the Russian Federation’s Armed Aggression Fund, amounting to over 19 billion dollars. The reserve fund has an additional resource of 17.3 billion dollars. In order to further implement the State's Mortgage Programmes, Financial Lease, Available Loans 5-7-9, as well as support for the agrosector and enterprises that are forced to re-location, the Enterprise Development Fund provides 16 billion dollars. There are 1.37 billion dollars planned for business grants. The resources of the local budgets for 2023 are estimated at 94.4 billion dollars because of the horizontal alignment mechanism. In particular, the basic grant – 29 billion dollars – is compensated for by the military budget – 57.7 billion dollars, an additional grant for transferred education and health facilities – 2.9 billion dollars, as well as a new additional grant to compensate for the loss of local budgets in connection with the military aggression of the Russian Federation – 24 billion dollars. In order to restore the vitality of the occupied territories, it is planned to channel the Fund’s funds to deal with the consequences of armed aggression and to compensate for the loss of local budgets in connection with war. Now it's the main thing. The government budget deficit in 2023 is projected at 20 per cent of GDP, including a total of 17.3 per cent of GDP. Nearly $38 billion, we hope to involve our international partners. It's from the governments of the United States, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund. At the end of my speech, I would like to point out that this draft budget is not the same as the previous one. We have no manoeuvre for traditional compromises, redistribution of expenditure, support for specific areas and sectors, point projects. I'm asking you to go through this budget process together as tightly as possible in line with the current legislation, because we need time to negotiate with our international partners to find sources of budget deficit, which, I emphasize, is $38 billion. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, and thank you to the distinguished few deputies who listened attentively to the Minister. I'd like you to sign up for the questions, the national MPs, the minister of finance. Yes, please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u268	Dear Mr. Minister! If the MPs move away from the "Serial of the People," we might as well see the minister. Thank you. Dear Minister, good afternoon! Of course, in one minute you can't talk about the budget, well, I have two very specific questions. I just got back from Kharkiv district, from Lozov, and there's this beautiful school No. 8 that was actually the center of some kind of cultural life in all of Lozova. And so many schools throughout the country, destroyed by war. Are there any expenditures today that are not local budgets that can ensure the reconstruction of these schools, and what can you be set up for next fiscal year? The same is true of the capital and current repairs of military hospitals that are in very difficult condition. Please give me the answer, these two positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u269	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the problem of the destruction of educational and health institutions is understandable. In this year's budget, we have the possibility to implement such programs for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of schools at the expense of the state budget reserve fund. And the government's final decision on this, the allocation of 400 million dollars to restore critical infrastructure in the occupied Kharkiv area, the occupied areas of the Kharkiv region. Of course, I can't say right now if this is going to be the cost of this particular school, but next year there's a resource, it's pretty decent -- it's 19 billion dollars from the Armed Aggression Fund. And this is 17.3 billion dollars from the reserve fund, which can be directed and directed towards the restoration of such educational facilities, health care. So this is a matter of priorities, and I think it's the priority of education that will be defined and these institutions will be rehabilitated. On behalf of the military hospital. I think the resources of the Ministry of Defence for the next year are extremely large, and in general the security and defence sectors have quite a lot of resources. And as one of the priorities for rebuilding, repairing military hospitals should be a top priority for the Ministry of Defence. We'll talk to our colleagues so that these taxes are directed at that very goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u270	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Another Sousun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u271	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Secretary, you have it on your first slide.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u272	Please enable the microphone again. You must have a different card. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u273	Mr. Minister, your first slide says, "The budget of the warring country." I don't know how to tell you this, but this formula is grammatically wrong. This demonstrates the importance of financing education. You can't say "warlord," you have to write "warlord." I would very much like to draw your attention to the fact that even in the Ministry of Finance with higher wages, there are people who don't know how to write literately. As a result, my question will also apply to education expenses. I understand that we can't talk about raising wages right now, about much else, but when we find 200 million students' sports within the Ministry of Education, and zeros stand for reforming the New Ukrainian School, I can't understand these priorities. Friends, we have millions of Ukrainians who are now living abroad, one of the reasons they're going to watch when they decide whether to come back here or not, is the quality of education that their children will receive. And to do that, we need to continue reforming the New Ukrainian School, and I very much hope that this will be reflected.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u274	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u275	Thank you for your observation. You know, really, maybe we're not linguists, we're financiers. At your request, we'll take the necessary linguists, who will give us quality language. But I think, first of all, we have to count our potential incomes and expenses qualitatively. But thank you for your observation. As for the continuation of the financing of the new Ukrainian school, I think the minister of education should define it as a priority. Sector expenditure is sufficient. Especially given the format in which education is currently in operation, it's predicted that many institutions are now not functioning, many institutions are operating online, so the possibility of prioritizing these costs and directing them to a new Ukrainian school is what I think will be found. In the process of processing, we'll also look at the possibility of reorienting expenditure in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u276	Lesya Zabranna, "Serve of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u277	Mr. Minister, actually, this budget is really unique. Indeed, this is a budget that will first be directed, and we believe that we will win in 2023. But the main defining feature is that the government budget deficit is almost twice as high as the revenue. And most of all, the question that's interesting, and we understand that this year we had a big budget deficit, do you already have an understanding of the strategy where we're going to take the money, and what kind of financial aid structure is going to be: that is, the irrevocable costs, just the financial aid and the loans that we're going to borrow? Because after the victory, we'll definitely have to deal with it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u278	Thank you for asking. It's really a budget that probably has the biggest deficit that has historically been in Ukraine. This budget foresees the support of our partners, and we really can't fund it on our own. But given that we're going pretty normal this year, by involving both the funds and the grants, there's good reason to expect that next year we'll be able to do that. What's more, from a monthly deficit of $5 billion in the United States in 2022 we have the opportunity to reduce the deficit to $3-3.5 billion next year, I mean US dollars. As for loans, grants. Of course, our highest priority is to look for grants, and to date, 50 percent of the grant costs are. And we're working with our partners that if it's not grants, it's going to be credits on extended terms with payouts of 15 years or more. So we're doing our best to shift debt burdens to a period when we can service and repay these debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u279	Thank you. Mikhail Volintz, the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u280	Mr. Minister, an explanatory note to the 2023 budget indicates that the salary debt is 1.2 billion dollars. And you and I know that only in the coal mine is now 1.5 billion debt, and by the end of the year it's going to be increasing. That's the first question. The second question. Uranium ore mining shafts, with five months' wages owed. It's our common painful issue that we need to resolve together with the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the unions, the labour groups. And the next question. We cannot agree that the draft budget provides a constant amount of minimum wage and subsistence minimum. With inflation rates ranging from 30 to 35 percent, we can't predict exactly what inflation is going to be next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u281	Thank you for asking. Of course, the priority of miners is no one has changed, but given the particular focus and energy crisis, the work of miners and their gains for today are worth more than ever. So there's a expectation that the government mines will go out on a non-profit basis, taking into account the cost of energy resources, and of course that will allow us to reduce the debt of the miners' wages. But budget support is, and we can also regulate it. For minimum wage and minimum wage. Of course, in peacetime, we will return to that question. We also need quality indices, and we need to make the right assessment of what we got after the war. But for the time being, it's too early, because we have another priority, the priority we have is to win the war, win the war, and then we'll continue to count and index. I want to point out that we have recorded the minimum wage and minimum wage at December 1, 2022: 6,700 is the minimum wage. We think this level might not be enough, but it's higher than what it is right now. And if we have an additional resource, we'll focus primarily on raising social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u282	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You can take your place. I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report on the budget of Mr. Yuri Aristov. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u283	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished members of the government! Today, you and I are witnessing a historic moment -- a presentation of a state budget project that has never been presented. This is the budget of a country in which there is a full-scale war, this is a budget for victory. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, almost 50 percent of budget expenditure is focused on security and defence -- more than a trillion dollars. Our Armed Forces demonstrate stability and the ability to win, the same thing we have to demonstrate on the economic front. But to do so, we need the least budget that meets the immediate needs and capabilities. The Committee on Budget Affairs had previously drafted a bill on the State Budget. And the most important. Despite the state of war, the government has passed a bill on time, and today's submission of the document is in line with the requirements set out. In the project, the maximum cost of social protection and support is pensions, subsidies, support for PPAs and low-income workers, also saved salaries for health workers and education workers, scholarships for students. The bill provides expenses for new needs — the need for military time. This is the support of war veterans, such as psychological assistance and medical rehabilitation. Predicted costs of primary work related to the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression For these purposes, a fund is being set up to eliminate the consequences of armed aggression, and local budgets will receive an additional grant to offset war - related costs. Once the draft budget has been submitted, the draft law is actually being prepared for the first reading. National deputies and committees shall have the opportunity not later than October 1st to submit their proposals to the Committee on Budget Questions in compliance with the requirements of Article 156 of the Rules. But today it is vital that the budget is tightened. Now is not the time for populist statements and political battalions. Yeah, we'd like to afford a trillion dollars to support the economy and raise social standards, but not right now. The budget deficit for the following year is 20 percent of GDP. We need to make arrangements with international partners for help today. It is very important that they provide financial support for Ukraine in their budgets next year, which protects freedom and European values with weapons in hand. Therefore, I call for proposals from deputies to meet current realities to be well-founded and balanced. I invite you to work constructively. Together, we must ensure that the country's main financial instrument is adopted as soon as possible for the following year. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u284	Heroic glory! Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the MPs and groups. Please note that it takes three minutes from each faction and group to perform. Please. Sergey Demchenko, Servant of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u285	My colleagues, good day to you again. I wanted to draw attention to a problem that is not unique in this government budget, but no less crucial than others is the problem of financing the judiciary. We all understand that we are in a state of war, but the current legislation and the Constitution have not been reversed. They are unchangeable to this day in that the judicial authorities must continue to exercise justice. And any reduction in its powers or in its exercise of justice is not provided for and prohibited directly by the rules of the relevant laws. The current budget is, unfortunately, critical and critical not only in cleaning up any possibilities for the reconstruction of the courts that have been destroyed this day with schools that have been discussed by previous colleagues, but also in that, unfortunately, even we don't get to pay minimum salaries according to the employees of the courts' apparatus. There is no way to provide utilities, that is, courts will not work at least in the winter, since no one in the cold will be able to administer justice. The courts will not be able to buy the paper needed to print court decisions. The courts will not be able to send the appropriate messages, since postal expenses are also not fully available. Colleagues, if you and I accept this budget and agree that this is the right thing to do, then you and I need to understand that, first of all, we are in violation of the Constitution. Secondly, you and I need to understand that we need to ask the question of reducing the courts. Is it really necessary for our country today to cut down on the courts, when there is still not enough time to deal with cases as a result of the lack of sufficient courts? We have to cut down on the courts, which are still provided by one judge at a time, assistants, looking at thousands of cases, exaggerating the appropriate workload, which is foreseen by any standard. So, colleagues, I'm also paying attention to the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Sergey Marchenko, and I'm also paying attention to Mr. Aristov, and I'm paying attention to colleagues. We will urge the faction to support the issue of increased funding for the courts. Moreover, colleagues, they cannot be separated from the judges of the High Council of Justice, which is not even available for future members of the High Council of Justice, they will be chosen in the following year at least, but not financially secured, that is, once again, the highest body of the judiciary will be so, well, the inability to do so, the expulsion of any action. If we want to stop the judicial system, that's exactly why. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u286	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, faction of Fatherland. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, in three minutes in the empty hall, talking about the budget, about the country's fundamental document for 2023, it's funny even. But I remember when there were real parliaments working in the country when there was real parliamentary, when really the Supreme Council, its decisions meant anything at all, so when the budget was reported, the whole government was in charge of the Prime Minister, all the authorities were sitting there, sometimes the President was sitting under the flags -- the full room of the people, and the day was going to the presentation, the budget discussion, the observations, and everything else. This was the work of a country in which there is parliamentaryism. Today, not only does Parliamentarianism have no freedom of speech, there is no discussion. There is some kind of beginning of something that is not understood. I'm even ashamed to sit in this room, because I'm one faction leader for the entire Parliament, and the faction leaders don't sit here anymore. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you're not a leader, you're a deputy, sorry. Don't raise yourself like that right now. It's a joke. I can honestly say that I respect you. I just want to say that this is a humiliation for the country of this kind of budget review. Do you know why this is happening? Because no more discussion, no more debate, no more collegiate decision in our country matters. And that's a lot scarier than you think. Yes, we will win this war. Yes, we will certainly return our territories, we will not return the dead. But what country do you want to see after victory, without freedom of speech, without parliament, without democracy, without any control of real bodies, without the power structures that work independently, with the courts that will already depend on some incomprehensible external force? Dear friends, I just wanted to reach out to some, I don't know, element of the conscience of this Parliament and of the Ukrainian authorities in general so that after the victory, we wouldn't embarrass Ukraine by what we've acquired during this time, that we've wasted this time, that we (in paws) have "reformed" during this time so that we don't get a country that's not capable of sovereignly, happily, prosperously, democratically, more Europeanly living. And that's why I want to talk to you today. Shit, there's no speaker, man. What a life. I didn't want to talk to the speaker, either. Well, I'm going to the fore: dear friends, do something to stop this rolling into this chasm. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u288	The hero of glory, Julia Volodymyr. It's hard not to agree, it's about the breakup. Michael Bondar, European Solidarity. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u289	Dear colleagues, as co-chairs of the European Solidarity faction, Arthur Gerasimov and I are also very much surprised that the budget is being discussed in an empty hall where the opposition that today demonstrates unity and willingness to work for the country is much greater than the representatives of the majority. We really accept a very difficult budget for a warring country. And from this budget, the country needs three important things. The first is adults, the second is responsibilities, and the third is transparency and publicity. With this budget, the country must endure, survive and move to victory, ensure victory. And so, indeed, the priority should be to support security and defence both in the centre of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and in places. This budget lacks the support of territorial defence. And that's very and very wrong. Similarly, we have millions of victims of Russian aggression. And obviously, people's support should be the cornerstone of the warlord's budget. Well, third. It is now necessary to lay the groundwork for the future reconstruction of the country and to give up stealing, holding hands to hide the foolish ones who are always trying to put roads, roads, and roads in each article. Because it's not normal for a warlord to put three times the cost of rebuilding homes in the budget of a warring country. Guys, stop, please! So this budget obviously needs a very serious overhaul. And I would like to regret that there is no Prime Minister of Ukraine here, but there is a Minister of Finance, you have heard proposals of constructive "European Solidarity", a professional faction that is already telling you where to find it. Mr. Tishchenko, step away from the minister of finance, let him hear something clever. I want to say that in this budget you can save billions now, for example, on the Russian-speaking Freedom Channel, which is looking at the Office of the President. Rather, pass the funds on to the victims of Russian aggression. Take this money away from the Council Channel, which is demonstrating that the President's Office is not a parliament. It's insane that today we don't have the transparency of budget discussions and these debates, and even what the minister said won't be heard by the Ukrainians themselves. Well, there's also a lot of "hotels." Friends, it is vital that Parliament restore its control function so that we do not hide from our responsibilities, but monitor how every single piece of the budget of the warring country and the cost of international donors is allocated. And we're going to make hundreds of amendments in terms of helping the Ukrainian army, helping the TRO, helping the victims of aggression, rebuilding housing and decentralization. We're not going to kill decentralization. I'm sorry, there are people in this room who don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u290	Thank you. Valerius Gnatenko, please, an opposition platform. The "Deliverance of Ukraine" group. I'm sorry. Please change the machine, the computer, and the old ones. I'm sorry, it's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, today is a very important day for our Parliament. And first of all, we need to know, remember, we're taking this budget, the budget of the warring state, and that's what we're saying. From the very beginning, it was developed as a resource that would provide the necessary security and defence sectors. Never before has our nation sent more than 17 percent of its own GDP to support the defence of the state itself. More than 1 trillion 100 billion dollars will be directed at national protection and defence, and each bracelet will go to the Ukrainian economy, to support the military and to support the overall preservation of social standards. Along with how the State understands social responsibility, especially at this time before Ukrainian society. The tax base does not change, does not deteriorate, and instead all of our obligations to citizens will be met with some increase in the vulnerable population. No social standard is going to get worse compared to 22 years. We also realize that the government will fulfill the promise given to us and will automatically index pensions in March of the following year. This is a very important question for our pensioners, because they are the most vulnerable category that is experiencing inflationary risks. In the proposed document, we see a great optimisation of government expenditure. And that's what the Supreme Council has to do with us. Everything that is uncritical will be cut off. At the same time, this will in no way affect the efficiency of the work of the public authorities and will only remove the unnecessary waste of our budget. Of course, Parliament must set an example of itself, and we are almost the first call to reduce its own funding. Thus, in the 2023 budget, nearly 390 million dollars were allocated to Parliament for 13 percent less funding. Also in the 23rd-year budget, there will be cost savings to stimulate the economy. For example, it's a run-in grant program and micro-enterprise start-up, industrial development, and IT funding. There will also be a 5-7-9 percent business lending programme. Anything that can be set aside for development, even under conditions of war, will be preserved. In particular, we want to highlight the importance of the implementation of the Fund for the Elimination of the Effects of Armed Aggression, along with an additional grant to local budgets for the reconstruction of damaged critical infrastructure and housing, in fact, will be allocated 43 billion dollars. The MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u292	Thank you, Mr. Gnatenko, from the "Delivery of Ukraine" group. Thank you. And I would like to invite Alexander Koltunović, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u293	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we have carried out a scrupulous and detailed analysis of the draft law, and I will give you the basic criticisms and figures that we think you might want to work on. Because there are important points that we don't think should be in this budget project. Yes, first. This is in article 1 of the limit of the budget deficit, which has already been noted, the figure of 1,279 trillion dollars. But you have to understand that this figure is greater than all revenue by 0.7 billion dollars. Then, in article 5, the limit of government debt is set at 6.4 trillion dollars. We have on July 31st of this year the last figure, this figure of 3.5 trillion dollars. So it's going to increase by 81 percent, a state-guaranteed debt. Then, in Appendix 2, Loan, we borrow 1.6, almost 1.7 trillion dollars, which is 32 percent more than the sum of all budgets. So if we used to count the share of income, today it's 132 percent, and it's extremely large numbers. This is the second moment, this is the next moment. Next, we have 741 billion dollars to pay off and service the state and state-guaranteed debt to date. These are significant figures, that's 30 percent of the budget spending. In our view, debt restructuring and maximum pay-back should continue so that the warring country does not spend 741 billion dollars on debt servicing and repayment. The next moment. The pension deficit, it's growing this year, which will be covered from the state budget to 232.9 billion dollars. This means that we have a non-working economy, we have a decline in the number of working enterprises, the working people working there, we have a decrease in the counting and the only social contribution. So from this point of view, we also need to consider this. Next, subsidies. The numbers are also decreasing. Last year there were 41.7 billion dollars in this 37.8 billion dollars. We don't get any less tariffs. That is why we need to take this into account. And most importantly, indexing minimum fixed income, minimum subsistence, social standards. For example, the minimum wage is going to be on the same level as last year, when the salary was set at 6,000,500 dollars, that was December 1st. Over the course of this year, it is only 3 percent viewed, and the next year it is not growing at all. At the same time, cumulative inflation will be 69 percent in two years at a salary that has increased by only 3 percent. The minimum of living is almost the same, so it also needs to be indexed. Then this budget will have the right to have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u294	Thank you. Jaroslav Železniak, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u295	Your Honor, we're not here that much, so I'm sure I'll go to the Ministry of Finance. Sergei Mikhailovich! Adequate normal budget. Thank you for him. I guess for the first time, in eight years, I've seen different budgets, it's really adequate. Yes, war and counting on them to raise social costs there, at least, is naive enough. Maybe they'll just print a bracelet and we'll have a bracelet of 60, 70, they'll stir inflation, and then we'll all mention the examples of Sri Lanka and other countries that were on the show today. Yeah, there's a note, including mine. God forbid we get the most attention to the budget that something wrong is written in the presentation and we find as many as 1 billion out of 2 trillion 500 out of something billion for the sake of it. I think we'll find it, but we won't hurt the kids. But the budget is really adequate. I remember receiving the budget from 2014. I remember, when we were introduced, that was actually the situation and there was no need to insult the deputies of the previous summons, the budget actually one page, then it was written. I remember doing this during the actual beginning of the new year. I remember a copy of the Tax Code, a military situation, and I had to do so. And now that we have a full-scale war, we've made a timely budget, we're looking at it in time. And I'm grateful that there's no tax change, which is what the whole business really asked for. So, your honor, I'm not going to be taking time right now, frankly, I don't understand why we're doing this when there's no cameras here and no one is going to show you. But nevertheless, a simple messenger, I also have a point to make about this budget. But for the first time in eight years, I don't have reasonable criticism to say that this budget doesn't have to be voted on. So thanks to the Ministry of Finance, you really did a great job for the first time. Good for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u296	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. I want to point out that everyone and everyone is doing their job here directly, too, as we get closer to our victory. Sergey the High, the Trust Group, please. Larissa Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u297	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a document that will become essential and key to our country in the face of a full-scale war. And we can really, really take a long time to analyze the budget figures that the government has offered us and compare these figures with past years, but we need to realize that compared to previous years, we have changed the lives of the whole country. The budget of 2023 will be difficult, I think all colleagues are aware of this. It's very difficult to plan something in the midst of a full-scale war, when our cities are being destroyed, infrastructure is being destroyed, only the key agricultural sector has suffered a loss of about $30 billion, and most of all, our people are being killed. And as long as this situation lasts, no one can predict it. Sooner or later, our Armed Forces will banish our enemy for their entrails. So it's natural that financing an army is the number one priority of this law. The Ministry of Defence alone has 757 billion dollars, about 60 percent of the revenue. 493 billion is for financial and medical activities of the USSR. Of course, it's a record for the defence sector, but here the country doesn't just have a way out, for us it's either a question of life or death. Over the past few years, we've been used to asking the government to increase development spending, to increase social standards. There will be no normal small increase now, the subsistence minimum remains at 2684 bracelets, the minimum wage is 6,000 700, the minimum pension is 2,000 93 bracelets. Unfortunately, in times of war, raising social standards would be something of a fantasy field. The income of the budget in 2023 amounts to 1 billion 28 trillion dollars, 18 percent less than last year’s. The marginal deficit of the budget is 20 percent of GDP, consumer price inflation is projected at 30 percent. If we were to hear these figures and projections last year, we would consider it an apocalypse, a complete shock to the economy. But today, unfortunately, it's a reality, and a reality where we're not easy to live, but we're struggling with an enemy, and in which most of our country's territory works, critical infrastructure works, and transportation, hospitals, schools. Therefore, the main thing today is to survive and choose negotiations not only for us but also for future generations of Ukrainians who live on our earth. So the criticism will be, but it will be after our victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u298	Thank you. People's deputies, please sign up for the speeches now from the National Deputies, and we're six minutes behind schedule. Please sign up. Yes, please, Osadchuk Andry, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u299	Please give Jaroslav the Ironborn a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u300	Please, Jaroslav Iron. Jaroslav Železniak, your microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u301	Yes, unfortunately, there is a problem with the microphone. Colleagues, I must have told you what I wanted, the Ministry of Finance. There's a constructive offer, let's let them go faster, let them work. I think everyone already understands that by October 1st we're applying, we're still looking at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u302	Thank you. You could have just kept your mouth shut. Irina Heratschenko, European Solidarity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u303	Please pass the word to Mrs. Southan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u304	Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u305	I wouldn't go so easy on each other and sing difirambs about the budget. Nevertheless, we have time and an understanding of how we can approach this document more qualitatively and work on it. Remember, Mr. Sergey, I asked you three days ago to give the actual expected figures on the income side and on the expense side of the war country. So, I was just coming up, asking, you didn't give me that kind of data. And in fact, when we talked to you about reducing the cost of maintaining the government apparatus from all the organs that provide the functions of the state, you said that if you went on average in every detail, you'd cut the cost by 10 percent. So I want to tell you, I asked you now to analyze the expenditures planned for 2023, by 2021, exactly state administration spending 1.4 times more than in 2021. What's the shortcut, please? This second article will now be after spending on defense and security. It seems to me that you don't have to answer for this exactly, here should be the whole of Kabmin and every minister responsible for their area of responsibility. No cuts have been made in fact, and this is the greatest disgrace. Because when we say we're doing everything and we're canceling out and we're analyzing, we can't talk about the revenue part right now, we can talk about its increase, we can talk about how we felt about the war. So let us not deceive one another. We didn't feel it, we didn't do everything we could to make the most of our resources. And all we have to do with you right now is focus on this issue, and these costs really give up on the social protection that the state has to guarantee, because problems in the state with the number of people we have to help, and much less of the working population is a disaster. Catastrophe! So let us combine our efforts and really cut our expenses, not pretend that we are cutting them short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u306	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ariev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u307	It's so good to speak in silence, because when the hall is full, well, frankly, the market is quieter than in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But what we see now is that this silence is because no one cares to listen to it. But first of all, I want to go to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Marchenko, this is me. Your numbers. You said it was the budget of the war country. Okay, after spending directly on the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it's a really record number, and it's completely justified. But for the compensation of the dead and those who remained disabled after this war, the participants in this war, the families of the dead, 325 million. I remind you that by Decree 168 of the Cabinet of Ministers (do not shake your head, look at your presentation you gave), by Decree 168 you promised 15 million to each family of the deceased, that is, 21 families can get it. But you had 38 billion on your way. Well, count: 325 million for 21 families of the dead and 38 billion for "great theft." Is this the country's budget that's fighting? Why don't you take your priorities there? Because today we have to care for those who have returned and the families of those who have not returned from this war. Because we cannot forget those who have already given Ukraine their debt by protecting it. So I'm telling you very clearly, we're going to do everything we can to raise families, so that the budget in 2023 will contain a decent figure to compensate the families of the dead, or change the numbers by way of the Cabinet. And those who have suffered injuries, injuries, injuries after taking part in hostilities. Because "Glory to Ukraine" is not just a slogan. The glory of Ukraine is when we care for those who bring glory to Ukraine. And if we understand that this will be expressed in specific figures, taking care of those who defend Ukraine, then we have in this room the full right to say: the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-09-21-m0.u308	Dear National Deputies, the submission of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2023 (Registration No. 8000) has been completed. In accordance with article 154 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2023 is considered the Supreme Council for further work. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. I thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension in advance. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We work together to win! Glory to Ukraine!
