ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. And I would like to remind you that when you start registering, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:03:45]] There are 269 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I invite you to the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! On the occasion of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the ninth call was attended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the head of the central executive branch of Ukraine, the head of the judicial branch of government. [[Applause]] The present officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall appoint, appoint and agree to the appointment, other senior officials of the authorities of Ukraine, representatives of the media, heads of diplomatic representations of foreign states and heads of representatives of international organizations accredited in Ukraine, as well as other officials. Honorable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine pursuant to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine to the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the ninth call open. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Dear national deputies, distinguished guests of the meetings, our distinguished, dear citizens of Ukraine, Mr. Head, are present! I welcome everyone to the opening of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly, and I very much want three branches of power on the first day of the second month, and the fourth, the authorities, including all five and even very important sixth feelings, to realize these words about what we have often heard, rarely reached, and bitterly, very acutely, need is unity. The unity of all always and in all things, especially in the perception of our present, and most importantly our future, the future of our nation, the future of our generations. We must be united in the fight for life and health. The easier course of the disease, the fewer hospitalized Ukrainians, the fewer dead are the result of the unity of 15 million Ukrainian citizens who have received two vaccinations. I thank them very much. The unity of power yesterday in the adoption of the budget is twice the pay for our medics. The unity of power today is the normal passing of new waves, the sufficient provision of beds, the sufficient provision of oxygen, the billions of eSupport bracelets and the millions of citizens who have benefited from it. I want to thank you, gentlemen of the people for supporting this program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Oneness in matters is important, but today it is also needed in words. It is in words that unity in the information field, in the sense of the media, is their responsibility at a time when the media is a new field of battle, the news is a new weapon, and any messages, especially those built on anonymous sources, have a real and powerful impact on our people, on people's psyche, on our state, especially our economy. In this context, I sincerely thank the citizens of Ukraine and businesses, who were the only ones who did not succumb to the panic virus. Our economy is stabilizing. In the financial system, everything is under control. The January budget was overrun by 7 billion. The bracelet is now, thank God, feeling better, and yesterday it was strengthened by 30 copies. Gradually, we return to a stable and planned course. For almost a week in international financial markets, there's already a positive dynamic, a dynamic about our bonds -- their quotations are back to their previous level. So the financial world values the future in Ukraine with optimism. Similar estimates of the heating season: we have sufficient gas reserves, sufficient coal reserves. For the first time in history, Ukraine uses all of our national potential, the potential of nuclear energy. For the first time in all years of independence, all the atomic blocks of our AES work. [[Applause]] Ukraine’s gold reserves remain record-breaking. This protects us from the various fluctuations and strengthens economic immunity as well as the signals that we hear about Ukraine's financial support from our partners, and for which I thank the European Union, thank the leaders of many European states, the United States of America, Canada and all those who will soon be willing to announce not just words, but announce similar decisions. Ukraine’s external support unites almost the entire world, but we must be united in internal politics. You can be in opposition to power, you can't be in opposition to Ukraine. You can have different views, but one goal is to strengthen your state, the state of Ukraine, and not your own personal rating. You can disrespect the majority, the government, the president, but you can't disrespect your own people, soak up panic to collect political fruits; keep people anxious, keep people on the street in negatives to get their benefits. [[Applause]] We also need internal unity in matters of the outside. Last week I held talks with the President of the European Council, the President of Lithuania, Azerbaijan, France, the President of the United States, and I met with the ambassadors of the G7, the UN, NATO, the EU, the International Monetary Fund, the OSCE. In general, there are 80 representatives of foreign nations and international organizations, and they are the only ones with regard to the support of our state. Unity unlocked the Normandy format, showed a willingness to talk, gave hope for a deescalation and a peaceful settlement. For the first time since 2019, all four sides have agreed on a common summary statement. We are actively working to agree on the date of the next meeting of counselors in Berlin in the near future, where I hope there will be an agreement to meet the leaders of the Norman Four. Yesterday, with President Andrzej Dodo of Poland, there was a meeting between the ministers of Ukraine and Poland. We've reached mutually advantageous trade agreements in terms of investment, transportation, goods transit. This week, Kiev receives the Prime Minister of Britain, Poland, the Netherlands, and the President of Turkey. This intensity of visits is a serious factor in stabilizing the situation inside our country. Rumors, rumors, forecasts of experts, great bloggers and Wanga have failed. [[Applause]] Nobody decides our fate behind our backs, everyone comes to us -- it's very important. We're ready to set our shoulders, not our foot. This is important, and we are grateful to our partners. We are creating a new format of political cooperation in Europe between Ukraine, Britain and Poland. We provide our state with a guarantee of financial stability, we are preparing to give a powerful economic signal, we are preparing to sign the Free Trade Agreement with Turkey within these two days. Our groups are working, and I'm sure we'll figure it out. Ukraine’s diplomatic support has been most assured and preserved since 2014. Ukraine's military and technical assistance since 2014 is the largest, invaluable and continues to come, and the main philosophy of Ukraine is constant, and we continue to follow it. It's simple and clear: we appreciate the support of everyone, we rely on ourselves, we have a strong country, we have beautiful diplomats, we have better diplomats than our military, we have to protect those who protect us. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] This is why the Presidential Decree on strengthening the security of the state and the attractiveness of military service has been developed. This decree provides for an increase in the financial security of all military personnel up to a level of not less than 3 minimum wages. The transition of Ukraine to the rules of the professional army, the increase in the term of contract, the development of the concept of housing for military personnel, veterans, members of their families, the system of career growth of officers, and an increase in the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces by 100,000, the creation of an additional 20 brigades of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This decree is the start of Ukraine's transition to a professional army. This decree isn't because soon war, it's what I'm saying to everyone, it's an order to make peace quickly and further. Peace in Ukraine! And I am happy to sign this decree in your presence. [[Applause]] Dear citizens of Ukraine! We want to be respected, let us first of all respect ourselves. It's not what others will say about us, it's how we perceive ourselves; it's not how someone accepts us, it's what's important, who we are first. In all things, always and above all, we must expect only our own, our own strength. Our Fatherland really has many friends, and we are grateful to them again, but friends have their Fatherland, so don’t forget that. So no one is going to build Ukraine instead, not protect Ukraine, not save, not raise Ukraine up, we have to count on ourselves. Let's think about the defining moments of our nation's history, we've won decisive victories with our own strengths, thanks to our own will, the Ukrainian spirit, our integrity, our pride and our dignity. When Ukraine restored independence, defended our freedom on the barricades, protected itself in the trenches by the forces of its supporters, by its volunteers, by its volunteers, by the forces of its citizens of Ukraine. Let us appreciate ourselves, love ourselves, not want to be liked, think about what our offspring will say about us, not about anyone’s politics. It is not possible for all of us to be pleased when you sincerely stand up for your national interests. So it rules out each other. We need to understand what is more important to us. I'm sure the answer for all of us, it's obvious, let's prove it now by our actions. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council! The head of the Supreme Council, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u4	Dear Mr. President, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Prime Minister and members of the government, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In opening this session, I want to thank everyone for our fruitful work during the previous session and to wish each of us unity, strength and strength for a new session period. Without exaggeration, we may feel that we are at the breaking of historical events that are yet to be properly measured by time. Therefore, the desire to fight for ideals, for an independent Ukraine, and for loyalty to our people depend on the responsibility of each one of us. We have faced new challenges that are not known before, which often do not have prepared recipes, so we need to work out appropriate solutions together in this room. But we're definitely moving forward. And even though the Russian Federation wants to hinder our plans by its aggression, I want to point out that we are confident of our unity, our unity, our identity and our irreversible choice of the Ukrainian people on our own nationality and our European course. We respect our past, but we do everything we can to build a future country. We are guided by the constitutional principle that man, his life and health, honor and dignity, freedom and integrity are higher social values. We will let no one question our sovereignty, our territorial integrity, and our right to choose our own course of development. The time has come to realize that Ukraine today is not just a forpost for European values, Ukraine is a forpost to the world’s civilisational choice as a whole. That's why both the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, and the government, and the authorities of local self-government, all work together for the internal development of Ukraine and strengthen international cooperation against Russian aggression. On the other hand, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to our partners who have provided and continue to provide safe and financial assistance to Ukraine -- the United States, the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Canada, the Republic of Poland, the Turkish Republic, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and many other countries that today are cooperating with Ukraine. At the same time, the Supreme Council will and will do its utmost to ensure that the requests and legitimacy of this aid are timely, sufficient, and necessary to ensure the life, health, independence, and territorial integrity of the State. The active efforts that we and our partners are making give us firm hope that diplomacy can stop the threats posed by the Russian Federation for Ukraine. We should not be intimidated by the latest statements from Moscow. Of course, we were pleased to hear that Russia had no and never intended to attack Ukraine, if not for the same Russia had created the last crisis with its ultimatums, if not for the fact that the Kremlin has been constantly calling for a single nation, if not for the hybrid war that has been going on in Ukraine for eight years, if the accumulation of Russian troops had not continued on the borders of our country and so many more "if". At the same time, understanding of Ukraine’s role in stability and security on the continent has increased in Europe and the world. This is the result of our parliamentary diplomacy with you, and we need to develop it. The more our fellow parliamentarians in all the countries of the world understand our reality and our intentions, the more stable our development will be. We need to take care of strategic partnerships that today support trust in us and create new ones. The development of political dialogue with the nations of the world, as well as cooperation within the framework of the Parliamentary Committee of the Association of Ukraine-EU, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO and the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, cooperation with the European Parliament is more relevant than ever. But this year we want to develop other parliamentary formats, including the parliamentary dimension of the Crimea Platform. Parliament's work on building a deep democratic state in Ukraine should also play an important role. The independence of the branches of power in the state, the judicial authority that creates confidence in citizens and foreign investors -- all of this will guarantee our economic stability. The previous session of Parliament was marked by the adoption of important laws. Yes, it has managed to introduce and regulate a number of financial mechanisms for the economic development of the state, industrial parks, facilitation of loans to small and medium-sized farmers, tax incentives for the IT industry, the establishment of mediation, the provision of citizens' participation in public decision-making, the military chaplains' service, the improvement of the use of borders by military technicians is a very inexhaustible list of what we have done together in this room. But that's not what we're planning to stop at. During the seventh session, Parliament will continue to work on the implementation of the reforms that are important to society. These include strengthening the security of our country, the support and development of the Ukrainian army, Ukrainian medical personnel, Ukrainian teachers, honest and fair pension reform, decentralization reform, urban reform, the establishment of the single rule of law, anticorruption strategies, the introduction of Ukrainian economic passports, the strengthening of the people, the development of infrastructure objects, and dijitalization. And all of this is far from a complete list of what we are planning for this session. Of course, it has called out much, but every national MP and the Supreme Council as a whole remain loyal to the words of the oath that we all proclaimed together in this Hall. And I would like to finish my speech with the words of the great Ukrainian Michael Gruszewski, whose portrait hangs first in the ranks of the heads of parliament on the wall that we pass by every day. 104 years ago, he wrote, "It's good to make history more important than it's good to write it." I really want us all to realize that, and let's not forget that today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, let us thank the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of the Prime Minister and all those who participated in the opening of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Today is our colleague's birthday, Anatoly Dmitrovich Ostapenko, of the "Serve of the People" faction. Let us welcome Anatolia Dmitrovich, and wish him good health, strength, and victory for the benefit of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people. There was a break from two factions and a replacement for the performance. Please, "For the Future" and "For the Fatherland." Igor Gus and colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u7	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends, we, Ukrainian parliamentarians, would like to express our sincere thanks to every country that has not been alienated from our country in a difficult time and, above all, has been helping our nation with weapons so that the invader knows that we will meet him in every village, in every area and in every city! Every country that's reaching out today is our brothers and sisters. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u8	Today, from this rostrum, we want to thank every president, every government leader, every citizen of those countries that have expressed and supported, side by side, have stood with our people and have shown that today a strong anti-putin coalition has been formed. And today everyone understands, and today everyone has supported that we have an enemy, an enemy with a clear name, the Russian Federation. We thank these countries for their insurmountable support for the military assistance provided to Ukraine today. Thank you! Ukraine will always remember your support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u9	Today, Ukraine is in danger, and those countries, nations, parliaments, governments that stand by us, they deserve great thanks and deserve great respect. You're protecting not just Ukraine, you're protecting peace around the world. You are facing the enormous threat posed by the Kremlin regime, and you stand for the right of every nation to choose its path towards European and Euro-Atlantic integration. As co-chair of a group of friends with Canada, I particularly want to thank Canada for Ukraine's consistent support, for the UNIFIER programme, for all the efforts that are being made to make Ukraine an independent state.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to speak Ukrainian. The translation is done, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, please, Ukrainian. No, please use Ukrainian in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I would still like to make a request to all the speakers in the hall, and I think in order to raise us all and Ukrainian, let us produce the world's Ukrainian language, and they're already translating it somehow. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see there's still a statement from two factions. Who? And "European Solidarity." Let's take a break. Who's going to report? Dmitri Alexanderovich, please. What's the matter? Please, National Deputy Voronko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, two and a half years ago in this room, he and you were sworn in by a national deputy. And for me, like all major MPs, this oath had a personal purpose. We also swore to our constituents, our fellow countrymen, who trusted us first to defend their interests. And that's what's most important to us. But in two and a half years, the ideals of the parliamentary majority of the 19th year's model were rapidly degraded until the criminal persecution of those deputies who had the courage to disagree with Bank's policy. The government has begun to harass MPs who have their own perspective on what is actually going on in the country, to pressure those who have decided to support the "Smart Politics" union, and who consider it necessary to vote as conscientiously as they wish in the Office of the President. I'm not ashamed of myself in front of the voters for my vote against the bill. That is, against the thoughtless sale of Ukrainian land -- red, against the legalization of the gaming business -- red, against the treasonous release of the Head of Parliament. After my entry into the President’s Office of Razumkov’s team, the roof was completely destroyed: simultaneous searches at seven o’clock in the morning with the involvement of armed special forces at my home, my son, my relatives, my friends. It's just an act of intimidation against the majority of the Bank's deputies. Instead of dealing with the security of the President's Office, it is a sign of weakness, helplessness and agony of power. A monopoly in business is a problem, and a monopoly in power is a usurpation, and it's definitely a step into the chasm. You don't have to bring the whole country down! We all swore an oath to the people of Ukraine, not to the Office of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, another statement has come from the "Serial of the People" faction and the "Golos" faction for a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Umerov. Do I get it right? We'll go through all the performances first, then we'll give you the procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have other colleagues who have signed up for the performance. Please, who's it going to be? It's written by Umerov and Mesenchev. Yeah? Umerov and Mezenceva, please. The "Serial of the People" faction and the "Voice" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u15	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, Ukrainians! Today you see the creation of the famous Ukrainian artist Sergey Majdukov. He created this symbol to tell all the Ukrainians who don't know it yet, but he's sure they know it, but all over the world we have 121 people today, Ukrainian Crimean Tatars, who are being held in illegally occupied Ukrainian Crimea territories and in Russian prisons. We realize that our efforts in the diplomatic arena, they are always the product of beautiful resolutions that are voted for both in Paris and in the OSCE, and we are supported by the whole community. But to remind ourselves of this is our duty. Remembering each one’s name and knowing it is our duty to know these stories. I give the word to Rustem Umerov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On the shirts you were given today, the names of Ukrainian political prisoners who were illegally deprived of their liberty in the temporarily occupied Crimea. By every name of the prisoners, their families, their wives, their mothers, their children, whom they have been waiting for for for years. In one of his first letters of imprisonment, Nariman Jhalal wrote that he had no illusions about Russia and their regime. But I'm sure he has faith that we're doing our best to bring him and 120 of our people home. It is symbolic that Nariman continues his fight today in the same cell where our colleague from the Parliament of Ahtem Chigos was illegally held. Today, Ahtem advocates the interests of Ukraine, Crimea, and Crimean Tatars, particularly in the international arena. I'm sure Nariman's voice will soon sound loud again in the fight for the rights of the Crimean Tatar people. When you are imprisoned by an enemy without access to operational news and under constant pressure from the invaders, every message of support from Kiev or any other city is an important signal that they are fighting for your release, they have not forgotten about you, and they are trying to return home in all legal and diplomatic ways. Such signals as today’s support campaign should be more and more frequent. Thank you very much to all those who support our political prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u17	Thank you, Your Honor. Please proceed with the procedure. Yeah? Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, you were absolutely right when you said that the meetings of the Supreme Council and the speeches should be in the Ukrainian language. But this is a formal approach, sorry, because you can't formally pass on a word to another during one speech -- it's from a formal point of view. But sometimes there may be exceptions like this when we thank our partners. And sometimes the Supreme Council can speak English as a language of gratitude to our colleagues, to our partners, to those who are protecting Ukraine today much better than today's, unfortunately, today's authorities. And today we should thank them in a proper way so that they can hear it and understand it directly. Thank you very much and let's do without formal approaches, and understand sometimes, including a certain moment and its nuances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u19	Thank you. I, with your permission, will respond. The thing is, when missions arrive in Ukraine, embassies and so on, they all try to learn and use Ukrainian. I think they set the best example of understanding us. And we need to make sure that in Parliament, which is called the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first of all the functioning of the state language, let's make every effort to do so. Thank you. Dear colleagues, today. I'm sorry, I wanted to say hello to Ostapenko again with my birthday. Well, let's say hello again to Mr. Ostapenko. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's group "Trust". Please. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The main topic currently being discussed in society is the danger on our borders. In this situation, it is vital that all political forces unite around the protection of our nation and demonstrate true patriotism, and all branches of government work in harmony and professionalism. This is exactly what our citizens need to maintain in order to keep Ukraine calm and stable. Another very important question that I would like to raise today is energy security. Business in particular is a huge tariff on electricity for industry. The tariff of almost 6 pounds per kilowatt creates virtually unrealistic conditions for work, and that's because the price of electricity in the market (DN) "in advance" is 2 bracelets. Accordingly, the question arises to the NCREKP: Why is it possible for the olenerto to create conditions that allow him to earn money when the country’s industry is being killed? And that's because in terms of Russian aggression, we need a working economy, we need a living economy. It is enough that the panic situation is directly reflected in the exchange rate and our economic processes. Therefore, we turn to the leadership of the State to settle this shameful situation and to deal with it. Another very painful issue is the food security of the state. Recent changes in agricultural taxation have led to the exclusion of bird producers from single agricultural taxes. Although our MPs insisted that this should not be done. Since January 1, this year, birds have been deprived of a simplified tax system. This means that all avian businesses will have to switch to the general tax system, or allocate avian farming to separate departments, and pay income tax. But most agrarians have a mixed production system -- both animals and plants work together, and it's completely non-profitable for them to single out a bird. So it is likely that they will simply close this direction, leading to serious negative consequences. First of all, it's a reduction in jobs, especially in rural areas. Second, this could lead to the reduction of the young bird in the country. And the rural population is buying it in the spring to run the household. We are already importing milk and meat, so let us also import the young bird. Our Trust Group has received a large number of appeals from agro-enterprises, from professional associations, asking them to resolve the problem. So we turn from the Trust Group to the Cabinet of Ministers to respond to this, to our call, and to resolve this problem, because it's very important for the rural population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u21	The word is given to the people. And please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u22	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the third month is being escalated on Ukraine’s borders. The third month, using weapons, using all diplomatic capabilities, Putin is trying to force Ukraine to execute "minish treaties." Why? Because this could lead to an absolute increase in the influence of the aggressor country. The implementation of the Minsk Accords can lead to an absolute increase in the impact of the aggressor country on Ukraine's external and internal policies, and there may be even worse scenarios. The word association "Minish Arrangements" is probably the one that Putin used most of the time to talk about Ukraine. That is why Putin is so insistent on their execution, which is why Putin is doing everything he can to ensure that the Minsk Accords are implemented and that Ukraine is completely influenced by the Russian Federation. This will be a complete disaster for Ukraine, which is totally unacceptable for Ukraine, so Ukraine is committed and should seek other ways. One of these is the implementation of the Budapest Memorandum, which is increasingly claimed by foreign politicians at the highest level. In particular, last week, both the U.S. Defense Minister and the United States Chief of Staff stated that we should return to implementation before the Budapest Memorandum was implemented. We in Ukraine should also use these weapons. In addition, we need to make decisions that will make our Armed Forces much and much stronger in the possible resurgence of armed aggression that can go into an active phase. To that end, we were promised that today's session would consider budget changes and increase funding for the Ministry of Defence. Sadly, this did not happen. We were also promised that changes would be made to the law, and that the natural persons entrepreneurs would also be able to get what people stood for a few days ago before the Supreme Council. Just because people were killed, because people disappeared, according to the FOP themselves, because they were being prosecuted, and they were asking one-on-one -- cancel the entry of cashiers. We were promised that this bill would be put into the agenda. Instead, today this bill is not in the order of the day, and in general, the FOP issue is recorded as being the case. No, that's not the way it's supposed to be! At a time when all countries of the European Union are directly squeezing small and medium - sized businesses in difficult times, Ukrainian police are beating small businessmen, breaking criminal cases against them, throwing them into appropriate detention facilities, and unfortunately the authorities are doing nothing to improve their status. We in Fatherland require the adoption of laws that delay the introduction of cashiers and give small and medium-sized businesses in these difficult times at least to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u23	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Vadim Zinović Rabinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u24	Dear friends, I would like to remind you that since October of last year, we have received regular reports of Putin's attack this morning. This lasts every day and is killed in the head by hundreds of television companies, it's already coming out of bricks, from washing machines. You don't tell me you won't open it, they'll attack tomorrow morning. When something happens, you have to understand who it's for. I want to assure you that two sides are benefiting from this hysteria. In the West, where the political crisis in the United States and the United Kingdom cannot be resolved from the inside, they try to turn their problems into us. It is part of a political game, a dirty game that affects the nerves, health, and well - being of Ukrainians. Persecuting the situation by intimidating us daily, foreign partners are pursuing a goal that has nothing to do with Ukraine’s interests. I've already talked about it, and it's something that even today's authorities are talking about, even though, a week ago, our "green friends" rocked the same hysteria that was too convenient for them to drop the issue of tariffs, poor wages, unpaid pensions, the destruction of the economy, the looted cod fund. It was convenient until they realized that they were going to lose more than they were going to buy. Well, that's not all, it was good for the authorities, because the noise of imminent aggression was destroyed again, after three closed channels, two independent channels, the arrest of one of the leaders of the opposition Victor Medvedchuk continues, not the accusation. Victor Medvedchuk is under house arrest, although the defendant in the same lipo case is in this room. Thus, under the noise of imminent aggression, our money is stolen, billions are taken out of the country, TV channels and sites are shut down, and opposition is eliminated. They just don't know what to do with the state, they don't know how to get the economy out of the crisis, they don't know what to say to people when it turns out that Putin didn't attack in two weeks. There is a wise statement that the rifle that hangs on the wall shoots itself each year. The country is filled with weapons every day, it is distributed throughout the country, and we know about the adequacy of some of our citizens. I turn to the Supreme Council the next time: in the parliamentary-presidential republic, for a certain degree, the state itself is being destroyed, people are being destroyed, they are not being allowed to survive, they are being forced to flee the country. If we keep quiet, I think it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u25	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u26	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, today had a very good talk in this room about how we will build a successful single country, and many different things about how it will be beautiful literally soon (tomorrow, after tomorrow). We've been hearing this for 30 years, but I want to say, in order for this to happen, we need to do specific things. If there are military challenges today, it was said that today we are increasing the army, making it powerful. But not only do we increase, there, by 100,000, but before we increase, we have to give the army good wages, good social guarantees, and give it good weapons, so that it's actually in their hands, not on the Department of Defense papers. If we're talking about energy, we need to do powerful energy conservation programs. I've been talking about this for seven years now, nobody hears it. If every year between 5 billion and 10 billion dollars were to be invested, which is the 20th part of the cost that is currently spent on road construction alone, if these costs were to be invested over the last 5 to 7 years, today the consumption of gas, electricity in utilities would be reduced by 30 to 40 percent to a minimum. Why is this not done? This is a challenge that needs to be understood today, and this needs to be done as a powerful programme: one stroke to allocate 30 billion, 40 billion from the state budget, and two years to reduce gas consumption, power by 30 to 40 percent. If we're talking about the independence of Ukraine by gas, where is the increase in gas production? We've been told that for seven years. We see how much money is spent on this, and that's over 120-130 billion dollars, no one can count to the end. And government gas production is only shrinking, shrinking, shrinking, and shrinking every time. We were promised for the 20th year to raise 20 billion of our own revenue by state companies. What do we have in total? 10-11 billion a year. Although it was 13 to 14 billion years ago. This suggests that today the government is ineffective. The Naftogazu leadership, the Crushing, and so on, just continue to spend our money madly with you, to eat them, and to be honest, to rob them. It's supposed to be a state program of independence. Look at the gas supply situation. Since April 15, we have to supply and implant at least 60 million cubic metres of gas per day in gas repositories. Where are they taking them today? There are no direct contracts with Russia. There is no gas in Europe. The States can't give us that amount. You don't have enough of your own production. The government is to prepare for this situation today. By October, we have to attach 17 billion. Where will consumption come from? Where's the hook coming from? Who will answer these questions? Why doesn't anyone talk about it? Why is there no government response? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u27	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos". I understand he's passing it on to the National MP, Sharaskin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u28	Give God health, honourable deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today, we have heard encouragingly about the fact that the main priority for the moment is to increase the security of our country, including by increasing the numbers of the Armed Forces. I would like to remind you that this is not an order, but an increase in the Armed Forces can only be made by the Supreme Council. This is moment number one. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait, First of all, how to increase the Armed Forces, and I'll remind you, we increased them by 11,000 months ago, we're in a state of incomprehensibility with the existing brigades. And that's important. The flow continues. Number three. We rejoiced that at least in such a semi-invasive way we would have an effective law that regulates the issue of territorial defence. But joy is futile. Why does the circumcised Law on Territorial Defence, where only the fighting component is regulated, not work? Because no one wants to enforce even the existing law. Today, the Supreme Council was to have a draft Law on the allocation of an additional 2.7 billion dollars for the provision of these district headquarters. He's gone for a while. Okay, let's go. Next. According to a law that no one seems to be about to implement, there is a provision for the formation of voluntary formations of territorial communities. According to this law, there should be a sufficient five volunteers, a representative of the headquarters of the territorial defense, then it is legitimately formed, and a primary volunteer formation is formed. Thus, from last week onward, a number of areas in Ukraine were told not to be present at such meetings. I'll remind you, they're gathering a situation for today, people who don't care who come themselves and want to enter and create voluntary formation. This process is sabotaged. I ask you very much to consider this an official reference and to pay attention to it. We can't hit the same rakes again. Well, and the next thing I know, the law doesn't work in that chapter, which is that there's absolutely no interaction between the various power units.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u29	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u30	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Pusharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u31	Please, Arsenius Pusherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We see the oppression of the last few weeks of the situation, we talk a lot about it across all the channels, across the internet media, the situation is suppressed, it's suppressed, it's suppressed, it's suppressed. And we've just heard about territorial defense. So my speech today is about territorial defense, and what is happening here today is actually being done by the state, by the local authorities in terms of territorial defence. You know, we passed the law, and since January 1, 2022, we have territorial defense. In the fall, congregations and training were held for the first groups of those who expressed the desire to be in reserve in the field defense. Today, headquarters are being established throughout the country. In particular, yesterday Igor Gerasimenko, Tetjana Grishchenko, Bogdan Kitsak, and I held an appropriate meeting in the Zitomir region. Today, there are commanders, territorial defenses are unfolding, headquarters are being formed, and I am confident that we will have a complete territorial defense throughout Ukraine within a month. I want to say that there are 70 percent of territorial defenses in the border areas today. Over the next few weeks, I think we're going to have 90 percent in the border areas, in all of them -- at least 70. And I urge you, fellow officials, in the next two weeks, while we have work on committees and districts, to find time and, as yesterday, we are with colleagues to go to places, meet with territorial defence commanders, assist and assist with local authorities in deploying territorial defence. I want to remind you that this is part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and this is now an additional 130,000 people who have the right experience, have the right desire and can quickly protect the territories of their communities, their districts, their areas. It's an important element and it's a world of the same Estonia where there's no significant military force, but there's also a Russian neighbour, where territorial defense is a big threat today to one or the other provocations or aggressions by Russia. In particular, I want to point out that today our intelligence, our special forces are working and professionally carrying out their duties as the oppression goes on as cyber attacks continue as fairy tales spread, and this is part of the hybrid war of the Russian Federation alongside the military. And we have eight years of war. Today, the Ukrainian Security Service, for example, has detained in Kharkiv and Žitomir areas a group of people who planned provocations in foreign cities, attacks on local self - government objects. So what I'm trying to say is that today, the Ukrainian Security Service, our security services, they're working, they're doing. And I'm sure we'll win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u33	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of "European Solidarity". Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, say there is no harm without good, for the crisis is not only a trial but also an opportunity. And Putin's concentration of troops has reached a turning point: he wanted to scare the world and scare us, and instead, the threat of a full-scale invasion of the Moscow hordes into Ukraine has mobilized our friends and the whole world to an unprecedented increase in Ukraine's aid, including military aid. But I point out that this did not happen because of the Ukrainian authorities. Our Western partners are still increasingly asking questions through the media: Why put arms on Ukraine if its leadership publicly denies Putin’s aggressive intentions and makes no effort to strengthen the army? Many of us have felt Spanish shame these days, and let Spain forgive me; it has nothing to do with it. In this case, it should be understood that the President's office has been cut, and we are all reddish. Since November, European Solidarity has called on Greene to convene the United Nations Security Council. This meeting took place yesterday, not at Kiev's request, but at the request of our partners, the United States. And at the moment of shame, when the Russian representative of our allies hides the quotes of Green and his ministers, it seems that there is no increased danger and threat from Russia. The whole world has been shocked by the international press conference of the Greens foreign media, except for Patrushev, who praised him. Greens are not taught that the strong support of international partners is the guarantee of victory over the aggressor. We're supposed to be the only front with the West, within Ukraine, and we're going to be strengthening the army of Ukraine ourselves. And the correct way to say it is that increasing numbers is not the president's "vosic" with a decree, it's the authority of the Supreme Council. And before you increase by 100,000, you have to provide money, military, food, goods to provide an active army. Put 25,000 on the military and 50,000 on the front. Set up our draft budget, support it. Parliamentary inaction is unacceptable, so Parliament, either work or go to hell and the people will hire other servants. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our speeches by representatives of political factions and groups. Then we move on to the issues of the day’s order. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall, we're moving to work. On the other hand, while colleagues are meeting, I would like to remind you that the next few days we are working on committees, so on the next day, I will assign committee heads to organize the work of committees in such a way that we will be able to speak these days with extremely important, complex and substantive laws on your committees, and that they will be ready to be considered in Parliament after we return to plenary work. Everyone understands, right, dear colleagues? Therefore, dear colleagues, let us move on to the issue of the day’s order. The first question is that we have a draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Seventh Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. From the procedure? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I get it, someone wants out of the procedure, so we're already on the subject. Are you in charge of this matter? Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u36	Mr. Head, I'm afraid we should take a picture of this. That's the next reason. You have Appendix One, this is a list of laws that are being taken down and not included in the order of the day's seventh session. In this list there are two laws, at least that are already adopted in the first reading, they are discussed in the second reading. This is Bill 5891-1, something about mines and Bill 5765. I'll remind you of the Rules, but I don't think there's gonna be a secret of Polischenel here, that the laws adopted in the first reading and prepared for the second are not included in the agenda of any session, they're already Parliament's property, and we can only take them off by single vote. And if all of a sudden Parliament has been re-elected and these laws are not adopted in the second reading, they move on to the next one. So in this case, there's an obvious problem in the document, so please remove this issue from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Are you out of procedure, too? Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head, I must insist on a full discussion of the draft decision, considering that it applies generally to the order of the seventh session of the day. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm drawing your attention to what my colleague Železniak said, I also noticed that. There are two draft laws that have already passed the first reading and are already in the second reading. Can we now consider essentially this draft decision in general? Thank you. And please pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u39	Out of procedure, please, Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Head. A complement to what my colleague Jaroslav has just said, as well as Alexander Koltunovich. I want to say that in Dobropille, in the Donetsk region, in the mine of Almaty, 39 miners of the fourth amendment refused to go to the surface because they had not paid their wages in the previous period. In addition, the miners of the first shift of the mine in their full warehouse went down to the mine and refused to enter the mine. This is the situation. And that's why this bill can't be recorded. You can't take it off the table, it's considered in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u41	The noble colleagues, me. Who's it gonna be? Arthur Volodymyrovich, are you? Oh, no? Dmitry Alexanderovich, please, 1 minute. And then I'll give it to you, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u42	Good afternoon, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Good day again, dear fellows! Ruslan Alexiyovich, would you please tell us what article of the Rules we are taking out of the agenda of our second reading of the drafts today? Because these bills can be removed (sorry, if you can say so) only remove the hall, or reject them or send them back to the second, or. In fact, only such a mechanism is provided for in the Rules. If not, I would like you to signify that these bills have been made to this order, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u43	Thank you. Who else? Please. Mushroom, please. The BUT faction was already on the scene. Fatherland, I'm sorry. Mushroom.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u44	Remember, before the New Year, we adopted Bill 5861-1 in our first reading. 5891-1 on debt to miners in first reading. Although we asked, the whole room asked for it in general, and then Ruslan Alexiyovich did everything he could to prevent us from adopting this bill as a whole, and now they're taking it down. So let me tell you this: not only is there one mine going on strike today, but there's a mine that can mine coal, and there's a mine called Diamonds today. What are we doing? Do we have enough coal in the country today? Think about what you're doing, colleagues. And I'm asking you very much not to take these bills and pay the miners off the debt, and also to put the money on the new bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else does? Chess. Please, Shahov, let's proceed to the vote afterwards. It's not discussed, it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u46	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I thank everyone who has raised the subject of miners today. For two and a half years, while going to the rostrum and saying that people are hungry today, people who work thousands of feet underground cannot feed their children and heal their children. It is you who take sin upon your soul and burn in hell. Today, I am fully supportive of Jaroslav Železniak, who said that the Rules should not be violated and those bills removed from the agenda. 315 billion dollars for "great theft" could be found, and the wages of 2.5 billion dollars for miners cannot be found here in Parliament. Or should we look? And the main thing. We need to get the Collaborators who are working in Kabmin today, who are especially bullied by the energy industry and who are killing the coal sector that is still breathing and working. We need to rebuild, not destroy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to speak? We're voting, aren't we? Let's have each faction in one minute. Two-in-a-two-in? [[B in m in s a l in]] One second. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to take a few minutes off because these two bills have really turned out that we can't really rule out. I want to know how they got there. I'm calling a 15-minute break to figure this out. Thank you. I'll ask the factions and groups to come over here for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to invite the people's deputies into the hall, we'll continue our meeting. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Honorable National Deputies, in the formation of the agenda for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation, there was a technical error. I thank the National Deputies for pointing to her. It doesn't include two bills, so I'm now giving the Apparatus a mandate to deal with this. And I'm also giving the commission to the committee during the lunch break to gather and include these two bills in the agenda so that we can look at this after the break from 12 to 12:30. Dear colleagues, do you take this approach? He agrees with all the leaders of factions and groups. Dear colleagues, since we have not approved until now the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, we need to make a decision to approve the order of today’s plenary meeting, which was discussed yesterday, approved by the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote so that we can confirm the order of today's plenary session, and we will return to the agenda of the afternoon session. Okay? Dear colleagues, please take your seats faster, we are preparing for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today's agenda? One minute? Please, who? Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, you know, I understand, of course, that due to the insufficient number of votes you have formed a completely empty agenda for today, because otherwise it does not come back, as they say, the tongue does not come back with another word. But I have a big request, Ruslan Alexiyovich, before this vote, to add to the agenda for today's European Solidarity Bill 6542 on the allocation of an additional 50 billion to the Ukrainian army. Because by the President's decrees, everyone knows that, money doesn't come out. This is pure pyar, this decree that was read to us from the rostrum today. You yourself understand and the military understand that money is allocated by the law of Ukraine and changes to the budget. So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, request here and now to include in the agenda for today Bill 6542 on an additional 50 billion at the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u50	Please, who's next? I can see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, as I recall, that week you and I agreed that the issue of the allocation of money to the territorial defense would be considered today. You and I are going to the committee to work for two weeks, and the territorial defenses over the past two weeks could be greatly strengthened and could be involved in creating both a second and a third level of territorial defense. It's very strange that this bill is not in order of the day. So if we can, please let's just be consistent, and we're going to spend money on territorial defense, because it's one of the tools to curb the aggression of the Russian Federation. Thank you. Please turn it on. And our draft law on a special fund for the military assembly, which we filed and registered with the Supreme Council, so that the money would go exclusively to the military. We will be very grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u52	Mrs. Julia, I just want to remind you that the formation of the agenda is first on the Conciliation Council. Let's say we vote today what we can, we have very little time left. Let us vote on what is, and then we will consider the other issues that you are talking about. Please, who? Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u53	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'm not talking about the 42 issues that we've been asking in general today and none of them are included. But at least so far, it's a big request to include questions 5866-1 on the FOP postponement. We know that there is a decision by the tax administration not to take any fines, but this is actually a violation of the law -- what they do. We need to legitimize it and make it a document that will work at any time. So a big request, if we could begin to consider the matter today, would relieve the tension. And the second. We support our colleagues' proposal to increase funding for territorial defence, and that would be a really important contribution today, because we're still on a break and we're not voting for two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u55	Colleagues, our "For the Future Party" MPs also support the day-to-day bill on the suspension of fines for non-installation of computing devices (RPOs) for our micro-entrepreneurs. We discussed this subject with the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and with the head of the profiling committee, the question. We realize that we can't cancel out total fines for failure to establish by the end of the year, but at least compromise was found for a month, two, three and so forth. So I think this is a question that we can put into the agenda. I don't think it's a place to beat yourself in the chest either, talking about who's more patriots and who thinks more of military personnel. We have repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Defence and the government as a whole, the last time in the government's "hour" last Friday. Please, the Ministry of Defence, submit drafts, including on territorial defence, no one will be willing and willing to finance changes to the budget for the current year. We're waiting for these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u56	Thank you. Bacon. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The "Trust" MP also asks you, Mr. Head, to include in the Order the first day of the seventh session a bill called for by entrepreneurs – number 5866 p.m. 1, and clearly include a bill to increase the funding of a material and technical base for the territorial defence forces. Because there are a lot of people in all communities who want to join the national resistance, they need to be taught clearly, and for that we need to allocate extra funds here with you. So we ask for the inclusion of these two bills in the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, it was suggested that the laws required by the foupers, especially Law 5866-1, should be considered. Unfortunately, the Conciliation Board did not support it, but the Hall can do so. Because on the Conciliation Council, we actually have one representative of the majority. Dear colleagues, I am so tense to feel the desire to fight. We don't have to provoke any escalation in our speeches today. The president just said to you, "Don't panic." Therefore, we ask that we put into order today our determination, which calls for a review of the package of laws provided for in the Minsk Accords. Just and exclusively the Minsk Accords are a guarantee of peace and a guarantee that peace will return to our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to determine on these issues according to the order of arrival. I'll get ready. The first proposal came from me to establish today’s agenda for the plenary meeting, which was discussed and approved yesterday by the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, this is the base of today. Therefore, I ask the national deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. Once again, I propose approval of the order of today’s plenary session. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:43:00]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, well, then we'll go on every issue, include or not include it for consideration. From the procedure? Arthur Volodymyrovich, just from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u61	Dear Ruslana Alexiyovich, in their speeches, the representatives of each factions have just named certain bills that they are asking to vote for inclusion in the agenda. I suggest in the same order that these bills be put to the vote now in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u62	Then, Arthur Volodymyrovich, remind me of the number of your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u63	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 6542 on strengthening the defense of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u64	I'm voting on the proposal to include 6542 in today's agenda. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:44:00]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Next, what's your bill number? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to include Bill 5866-1 in the agenda of today's plenary session. Ready to vote? Please vote. 5866-1. [[11:44:40]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Please, Julia Klimenko, name your bills that you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u65	We're asking you to include Bill 6566, this is to direct the military assembly 1.5 percent exclusively to the Special Forces for the needs of our army, not to the general fund of the state budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I propose to include Bill 6566 in the agenda today. Please vote. [[11:45:32]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues. That's what your faction said. We'll get to you now, we'll be on our way. Jaroslav Ivanovich, what do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u67	Dear Chairman, I have an offer, I think, which will unite the hall. Now there was a proposal from European Solidarity to finance the army, from colleagues about the FOPs, and from our colleagues to once again the military assembly. I propose, and let's put this proposal together, put it on the agenda, and I think this will not only help us get a positive vote right now, but at least give an answer to both our respected journalists and our citizens -- and why is the Supreme Council of Ukraine meeting today for a plenary day. So I ask you to put this question on the agenda according to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u68	Jaroslav Ivanovich, but they were all spoken for. The Supreme Council spoke on them all. You want to put them together. Jaroslav Ivanovich, all numbers please, then. Look, I've got the numbers 6542, 5866-1, 6566. Is that right? You're suggesting we put them all together, aren't you? I just don't know how much. Are they ready to be considered simply? I'm told -- no, they're not ready for consideration. Arthur Volodymyrovich, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u69	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, we have a break in 12 minutes and I think the committees, even if they don't like these bills, will get 30 minutes to review them immediately and we'll go into the session room with the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I then make this proposal: Bills 6542, 5866-1 and 6566 respectively, to now include them in the agenda of today's plenary session. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:48:13]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, then I'll have an offer. I've got it, if that's what it is. And please, Alexander Sergiyovich, and then I'll make an offer to get us over to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Golovo, the proposal that was made by our colleague, National Deputy Shufrich, is the draft Decree No. 5647. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the leaders of the parliaments and governments of the Normandy Four countries for immediate execution. the end of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, the subsequent text of the implementation of the Minsk Treaties and so on. This is a very important question, which the President of Ukraine spoke about today as part of his address. We know that arrangements and meetings will be in place in Berlin in about a week. It is therefore extremely important to start this way with regard to the implementation of the political part of the Minsk Treaties. Please also put this order to the vote for inclusion in the order of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting for inclusion in the order of today's day. She's not ready to tell me. Well, on the same program, if it does, then the committee. 5647, Your Honor, I'm proposing to include in today's agenda. Please vote. [[11:49:42]] For-26 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I have an offer, come on. "Trust" more. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u74	Please give it to Bakunka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u75	Bacon. I can see it, I can see it. I'll give it to you later. I can't stop Bakuntz and hand over Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, let's at least give our entrepreneurs a few more months to breathe. Please put to the vote the inclusion in the order of the day 5866 p.m. 1, take this step to meet.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u77	I'm sorry, we've already voted on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u78	We ask you to bet again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u79	We cannot put it again, because we have already voted, the Supreme Council on this issue has been determined both separately and together. Dear colleagues! Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, we have talked to you so much about the social protection of miners working at a depth of 1,000 meters. And look, you don't have to go deep, look at Bill 5891 -- payroll debt. Aren't we ashamed at all? There's 50 billion people talking, maybe reasonable, and people don't pay. Don't we understand? That's why I'm asking us to turn it on. Please, chairman, please include this in the agenda review 5891 – debt on the wages of miners. Once again, colleagues, please support. We have a second reading. Why don't we include it?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u81	Vasil Ivanovich, may I tell you? I told you I stole a technical error, these bills are exclusivity, and there can't be one. So I asked at 12:00 to meet up with the committee and put them into the agenda of the session, and we'll look at them during the session. We can't look at them right now, because this is the second reading, they're not ready for consideration. Dear colleagues, the second reading is not ready for consideration. Dear colleagues, look, let's finish this one more time, I see we have to take a break and we have to sit down. So, honourable colleagues, I'm once again, risking finalizing, I'm commissioning the committee to gather now, to review this order of the day so that these two bills, which happened to come in to remove them from this decree. I think after lunch we'll all get together and vote on this whole Order. Dear colleagues, I'm calling it a break. Let's meet at 12:30. And the heads of factions and groups, I ask you to gather with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to invite the people's deputies to the hall, we'll continue our meeting. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Dear colleagues, a brief account of the results of our meeting with the leaders of factions and groups. During the break, I commissioned the Supreme Council apparatus to include in the order of the day’s seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call the additional proposals that were made in this room, which our colleagues insisted on. In particular: Bills 2765, 5891-1, 6542, 5866-1, 6566, 6519. In doing so, the bills on which we have raised questions – 2765, 5891-1 – are excluded from the list of bills that the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of their previous consideration, have proposed not to include in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. So you understand, those bills that you talked about, we put them into the agenda of the day session, into the 1,000-900 bills. So how do we expect the factions to understand that what you're proposing is involved. In addition, we removed this error that was involved. So, dear colleagues, please take your seats. No, we've already discussed Arthur Volodymyrovich. One minute, yes. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u83	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for trying now to compromise on the issues related to the sovereignty of the state. Secondly, I want to tell you that there has just been a meeting of the faction of the political party "European Solidarity", and we have decided that we will vote in favour of the agenda of the session if the Bill 6542 on Extradition (terminal, I underline) 50 billion on the Ukrainian army is not simply included in the agenda of the daily session and forgotten by a majority, and today it will be put into consideration and today adopted in the first, I emphasize, in the first reading. Sorry, today the president of Ukraine from this rostrum is talking about the military's funding deadline, and the only bill on budget changes that is on the military budget committee today is 6542. Therefore, a great request is made not only to include it in the order of the day’s session but to put it into place today and to accept it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u84	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich, we've already voted on this issue, I'm just reminding you, for the session. Unfortunately, there was no vote. That's why it's such an offer to include it in the session. He can't be forgotten if he's in session. Please, Jaroslav. Who? The head of the Ustinov faction, please. After that, who will it be from the Fatherland faction? Sobolen. Is there going to be any of you? Is there a settlement? Do You Want to Answer? Bacon. And let's go to the vote. Please, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to see the allocation of 2.7 billion in the daytime, as we promised, for territorial defense. Unfortunately, as far as I know, half the parliamentary factions don't want to support it. I don't know why. Because that's the key that our military needs right now. And the second. I thank you for putting in order our daily bill on the creation of a special state fund to which the military assembly will go, and all the money that now, one and a half percent, is going to be counted by the Ukrainians of the military assembly, will go straight to our defense, not the way it is now going to the general budget boiler. That's why we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u86	Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u87	Sobolje, Fatherland. The faction meeting has just ended. Our proposal, I think, is close, which will allow us to unlock the work of Parliament. Since the mining issues have been reversed, this is how we understand, two, those in the first reading; and the three issues on which the three factions insisted are the military assembly, this is the defense budget, and these are the FOPs that are included in the agenda. One clarification: considering them at the first plenary meeting next week. I think if so, then they'll all find themselves and it'll be a compromise for which everyone is willing to vote. This will allow the committees to consider these issues for two weeks, and for the next plenary week, after February 15, we will consider them in the session room, and that will solve all the questions, and today we will go in the order you proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u88	Thank you. Sergei Vladislavovich, well, the next day's order determines the Conciliation Council, but we can ask the Conciliation Council to take this into account. We can't vote in this room right now, because now the question is exclusively the order of the day session. That's why I'm asking you to support this. Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. After that, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And then the Ironman asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u89	Thank you, Mr. Head, for listening and still including you in the agenda, for proposing to include in this room a bill to support the FOPs (5866 p.m. 1) and, of course, a bill to increase the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in order to provide material and technical support to the Territorial Defence Force. I think that's the right thing to do. The Trust MPs support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regrettably, none of the two rulings concerning the settlement of the conflict in Donbassa and the fulfilment of the Minsk conditions are considered today. We could compromise and agree if we now voted on these issues in the first plenary session after the quarantine, well, let's say, absence from plenary sessions. And that can be decided not only by the Conciliation Council, but by voting now, if it were your fate. Well, we certainly need to figure out when we're going to consider Bill 5866-1, which is the focus of our trophies. We fully support them. If we don't have a definition of considering these bills, our faction will abstain from voting. We're talking about it honestly, frankly, without all the undersides.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Iron Man. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we all understand what we're voting for right now. We vote in favour of a list of issues for six months, where several more laws have been added to thousands of laws. First. It's a very strange logic as to how this order of things is formed. If it is formed only by the submission of committees, unfortunately there are laws that have not been considered on the committee. If all the laws, let's put all the laws there. And partly -- what we like -- it's not a very progressive approach. Next. I want to remind you that if we now vote on this agenda, for which the Voice party will not vote, then we will go on to this day, where there are no military issues, social, economic, no tax reform from Voice, there are no laws concerning energy security, and then we will look into our voters' eyes for making time today. So I suggest that this decision be broken down, that it be worked out properly, and today, that we form a separate agenda instead of the Conciliation Council, which we found was not. She didn't present.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u94	Again. Dear colleagues, thank you, I've heard all your suggestions, your remarks. I want to remind you once again that right now we are not voting for today's agenda, not for another. We have one question: the order of the day of the seventh session. All the proposals that were made by the factions, they were all involved in this issue -- in the order of the day session. So all the suggestions you've made, they're all completely taken into account and included in the agenda of the day session, which I've highlighted. So I'd still like to be honest with each other, and let's vote for this, for the agenda of the seventh session, so that you can have a basis for the formation of day-to-day and day-to-day routines. So, high-ranking colleagues, I put my proposals right to the question of the order of the day session. I would like to remind you once again that additional proposals have been added by the people's deputies, namely: Bills 2765, 5891-1, 6542, 5866-1, 6566, 6519; and Bills 2795, 2765, I apologize, and 5891-1 are excluded from the list of bills that the Committees of the Supreme Council have concluded in their previous consideration not to include in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council on the ninth call. So all the suggestions we talked about are all taken into account. More. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said everything 5866-1 I said. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 6575) on the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, taking into account the above proposals. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, we're voting on the agenda, not the plenary week. Dear colleagues, everyone is determined who wants to. All the suggestions you've proposed are taken into account. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting for the entire draft Decree, registration number 6575, on the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call, taking into account the above - mentioned proposals. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:48:33]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we haven't accepted the order, so we're going through those projects that we can consider without being included in the agenda, and this is creating temporary commissions of inquiry, they're now included in the order, they've been included in the draft agenda, we're moving to them. Please, let's move on. You're done. You're out of procedure. I can't make this offer, I'll explain why. Because we're not dealing with the day-to-day issue next week. We did not vote on the order of the day session. We don't have a day-to-day session, plus the day-to-day schedule next week. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, good fellows. Now, one second, I'm going to find the materials of the temporary commission of inquiry and move on. Dear colleagues, let's go before the TSC is voted to include in the day-to-day bonus for the Zens. And then we'll go to the temporary investigation commission. Is there no objection? I'll bet you an offer. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an offer to put the day plenary into order and consider the project. Now, 6524, now I'm going to find it in me, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include in the agenda Bill 6524. It's the Pro-Decision Project. Dear colleagues, I'm about to make this proposal for inclusion. Let's stop doing what we're doing. I would like to propose to include in the agenda Bill 6524, a draft Order amending paragraph 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of December 1, 2021, No 1919-IX, on the award of the annual Supreme Council Award to the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of the full general secondary education in 2021. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:52:15]] For 281 Decision taken. I'm asking you to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. Short-term procedure first. [[12:52:40]] For 221 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation of Babak Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on December 1, 2021, the Supreme Council passed the Order on the award of the annual Supreme Council Award to the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of the full general secondary education in 2021, and accordingly defined 30 winners of the prize. Each of these candidates has been included in the list of prize winners as one that meets a set of criteria, in particular to be listed in the current year at the higher education facility in Ukraine and to sign an education contract with a higher education institution in Ukraine. The committee received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Science that one of the laureates had filed an application for a deduction from a higher education facility and was accordingly ordered to be counted. So his candidature should be removed from the list of laureates as such that it does not meet the requirements of the January 29, 2021, decree. So this is a technical draft decision. At his meeting, the committee unanimously supported him, recommending acceptance as a whole. Dear colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed that this issue could be considered without discussion. Is there a need to discuss? Of course, it is a very important thing to register: two in favour, two in opposition to discuss this decision. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Pipi Natalia Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u97	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! We will, of course, support this determination, which is actually technical, to explain what is in it. People. ZNA, and who gets the best results, should receive the prizes, but they should remain in Ukraine. One of those winners picked up documents from the Ukrainian University and went abroad to study. Accordingly, this decision is technical, and in order to pay off all the following, we make such changes. But in general, I won't be tired of talking about the quality of education in Ukraine, because in addition to good classes, good food, we need the quality of education. When we're ready for decisions that are unpopular, when we're assessing not because someone likes someone and doesn't like them, but because of real knowledge? And when are we really going to look for ways to stimulate and motivate teachers to learn, to acquire competences? After all, this is the first thing teachers need to learn to teach our disciples. We're definitely against taking away and evaluating, which is after 4th and 9th grade, it has to stay. I also ask that you pay particular attention to the older classes of the New Ukrainian School, and we need quality licenses and their fillings. Now no one in the country can see how to do that, but we have to find the formula and make these right changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u98	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Roman Gristuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u100	Roman Gritchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, as technical as possible, we're just cleaning up one last name from the ruling. Here we just have to talk about whether it's up to the Supreme Council to do it -- spend that much time, vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u102	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u103	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, please pass on the word to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u104	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u105	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Supreme Council has to follow the principle of respect for every citizen of Ukraine, which is when it awards a prize for what: a better member of the TNP, who was acquired on the basis of full secondary education. Alexi Chekalov became one of the best participants in the U.N.S.A. and received secondary education accordingly. He entered the National University of Karazin. And there were so many circumstances in his life that he wanted to get out of that university and, as we were told, he wanted to study at another university. As we look now, let's be purely human. The boy is 17 years old, 18, and now the entire Supreme Council is uniting to take away the prize that we have assigned to the boy. Do we now have to fight with one of the students who has made up a TNP who has surrendered, wants to change the university, or for other reasons wants to go over and stop learning in this institution? He's done the job, he's done the job. I'm surprised at the decision of the members of the profile committee that made that decision. I urge you for your respect for the student, for your respect for us and for the Institute of the Supreme Council, not to be a penal authority and take a bonus from this guy. Maybe it's really important to him. Imagine, he begins his life course by being punished by the Supreme Council. Please stop and leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u106	The word is given to the national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Head. Just half a day, the majority in this Supreme Council cannot confirm the order of work of the Supreme Council. Half a day instead of answering the question of how to respond to the concentration of Russian troops on the border with Ukraine, how to respond to the situation in the Ukrainian economy, how to respond to the situation that has arisen with the individual entrepreneurs. We are invited to consider, as the chairman said with a smile, a very important technical bill to deprive one person of a scholarship to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This all testifies to one thing: there is no monarchy in the Supreme Council, no majority in the Supreme Council. There is no possibility of adopting legislation in this Supreme Council without the participation of the opposition political forces. Therefore, it is necessary to make a conscious statement and to make all the decisions that are provided for in the law in force on this matter. If there is no legitimate majority in the Supreme Council, there is no legitimate government and so forth. But I would urge the Supreme Council in this situation. All talk about unity. But the question is: What should we unite around? We're definitely not going to be joining forces at Fatherland around the FOP beatings, about breaking up the premeditated criminal cases against the FOPs. We are ready to unite in order to enable small businesses today to exist and function in a normal and, at least, minimally accessible way, as all European countries do, supporting small and medium - size business in these difficult times. And such technical decisions as we are currently considering, of course, need to be voted on and voted on in one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u108	Please ask Petr Alexiyovich, the faction of European Solidarity and Shahov. Is that what I'm saying? Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the faction of "European Solidarity" certainly supports the bill. But for today, I want Ukrainian television viewers to see what a parliamentary crisis is. This morning, Greensky spoke out of the rostrum and called for two things: increased funding for military personnel and increased numbers, which is all the authority of the Supreme Council. And when we ask for 6542 (increasing funding), the majority does not support it. Why? Because they've become very involved in big theft, they've become very involved in financing the House of Propagandist and Rady, they've become very involved in other corruption projects, and they don't have any money left, either a cross or a rabbit. Follow Zelensky's position: increase funding for the army. 6542 to Hall and Slava Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u110	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, "Trust", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u111	Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. I represent Lvivščina, Yavorovský and Žovkovsky regions. I want to point out that young people, young people of Yavorovščina, young people of the Royal Jove, young people of Lvivščina, young people of Ukraine are the people who care about the development of our state. So today I strongly urge everyone that we need to increase the ability to finance the support of those young people who are getting the best results from external independent evaluation. And they need to be stimulated more and more and more to support them, so that we can help them, not take away their bonuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, they're all here. People's deputies, please prepare to vote. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft resolution amending paragraph 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 1 December 2021 No 1919-IX "On the award of the annual Supreme Council Award to the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of education obtained on the basis of full general secondary education in 2021" (project registration number 6524). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:05:09]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a proposal because we can consider a reduced procedure and without voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 26.01.2022 on the adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Law amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement (registration number 6273-P). It's a restraining order. You understand, don't you? It's being considered by a reduced procedure. That is why I invite the initiator of this decree of the Ukrainian national deputy Pauluk Maxim Vasilovich. Please, Maxim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since the 26th of January 2022 of the draft Law, registration number 6273 will allow for the support of the domestic producer of gas turbines, at the same time disengageing it from excessive financial risks, the responsibility for the entire project of reconstruction of the compressor station. A complete lack of experience, staff, scientific and material and technical base that can design, build and mount equipment for a compressor station. Presence. Even the installation of its own turbines is carried out by foreign specialized organizations. The very "Star"- "Mashproject" performs exclusively the head-mounting of its turbines. Dear colleagues, the bill's draft can be compared to a situation where a customer offers a motor manufacturer for cars to produce a car that he has never produced, or the owner of a house is offered to choose a general contractor for the capital repair of his house a company that manufactures heaters and has not yet completed any repairs and the patient is offered to perform a surgical operation to a laser scalpel manufacturer who has never operated before. Dear colleagues, a number of articles of the Rules have been violated during the consideration of this bill, including 116th, part of the first article of 117. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this draft decision. But those who have read and considered the bill understand that it is not about justice, not about equality, not about openness. It's a bill that goes around all procedures of openness and transparency and tenders just to dust 15 billion dollars. Thank you, colleagues. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the co-rapporteur, the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenk. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u115	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered the draft Decree (registration 6273-P), submitted. tabled by Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich. This project proposes to cancel Parliament's decision of 26 January of this year on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on the features of the negotiation procedure. As the author points out in the explanatory note, this law was passed with violations of the Supreme Council Rules, such as articles 116 and 117. In summary, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of the draft Decree (registration number 6273-P) and decided to recommend to Parliament that it should be decided by a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft Decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u116	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to make a statement on this decision? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy Pauluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, once again I urge everyone to support this decision. I also note that the regulatory committee did not invite the author during the consideration, or me to consider the decision, tossed a link to the video conference just minutes before inclusion. Then, at the committee meeting itself, when it was not connected, he did not allow himself to speak and argue. Once again, colleagues, it's not about justice or equality, it's not about supporting domestic producers. Thank you. Please support the decision-making project.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u118	The word is given to Ion's Mary Mikolayevna, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Gerasim Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u120	Please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u121	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! "European Solidarity" will not support this bill. But I would like to appeal to the leadership of the Supreme Council right now to once again put to the vote this room to order today and to vote today on Bill 5642 on allocating an additional 50 billion to the army. I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can place not one day, not two days, not even 10 times, but 20 times. I believe that today the financing of the Ukrainian army is a question number one not only of this room, but of the entire country and of every Ukrainian. In addition, he wanted to draw the attention of the Ukrainians to another beautiful moment. Already a month and a half ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the bill and became law concerning the teaching of foreign military personnel and their participation in military training. Green still hasn't signed it. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u122	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shapovalov Jury Anatoliyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Rudik Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u124	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, of course, all of us in this room have to speak for the support of our own manufacturer and the revival of our industry. But why 15 billion dollars without ProZorro? Don't you find that strange? We've been under the walls for a few days now. And today they stood in the hope that we would vote on the agenda, where there would be a key bill on the extension of the RRO or adjustments to its application. But we didn't have time for that. And to put forward a motion for a annulment order, which we are currently discussing, we have time. What did you find today? Because there are no votes in the room, and everyone understands that we won't get those 226 votes. Everything that is being put here today is essentially not going to get any support. Therefore, the society, the Ukrainians, cannot be masked by good slogans, saying that we support the production of large enterprises and that 2 million people who continue to fight for their rights do not have these rights and are forced to do what they do not have to do -- stand by day and ask us, the national MPs, to support their initiative. I understand, once again, that we don't have votes for this today, but today is not the last day. There will be the next plenary days, there will be the next session, and I very much hope that the "Serve" colleagues will recover, they will have an additional 20 votes, and they will not cancel the work of our Parliament for the intended reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u126	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to the national MP, Gregory Mammy.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u128	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are several principles in the state for purchasing. The first is through the ProZorro system, the other system is buying into the only participant. It was still very difficult for the law to make up such a story, but our Supreme Council came up with it. What is involved in one procedure or another? Absolutely nothing. But one way or another, they're going to answer. And by this procedure, how will you attract so many national deputies? And everyone will do the law in good conscience, and steal, and everything will be very good and very good, and they have even set a term for themselves. And the drafts of "The Opposition Platform for Life," which, listen, let's not give it three years, let's give it a year, let's see if the Supreme Council allows it, let's let it report from the Supreme Council's rostrum, where the money was going, and we'll see the results of the audit management on how the construction was going and everything else. I didn't want to. And these decisions, "The Opposition Platform for Life" the apriors cannot support and support this decision, because the law has not yet been allowed to steal. We will support this decision and ask all national deputies not to allow such initiatives beyond the procedures established in the State to come up with a third procedure that is irresponsible but with a colossal cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u130	Please, Iron Man. And then we move on to the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I will remind you that we are voting on the Rules of Procedure for the drafting of the law. And we can agree or disagree with the logic of the bill, I didn't personally vote, even though I did have a conversation with representatives of the Kharkiv region and MPs who had a different position, but the procedure for drafting the bill was violated, because I remind you that it was in this bill that there were two amendments, 9th and 10th, if I recall correctly. The first is to get the buyer out of control, the second is to increase the purchase price by 50 percent if the contract is longer than 3 years. I spoke from this rostrum and during the consideration of the bill, why it is corruption. And so thank you all for not supporting these changes. But let's finish the practice when laws are passed in advance with violations of the 116th Rules. And here is the responsibility of the Presidium to test such laws, and if we see a repetition of such a situation again, it just wasn't considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Prepare to vote. Once again, it's a restraining order. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 26.01.2022 on the adoption of a second reading and an entire draft Act amending Chapter X of the Act on Public Procurement (registration number 6273-P). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:17:44]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have some temporary investigation committees. But there's an offer. We have two educational bills. Would you mind if we put them in the order of the day, in the order of the day, and vote? You won't? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to include in today's agenda two Bills 6354 and 6445 are educational bills. Dear colleagues, please support and vote on the inclusion and transition to the consideration of these two bills: 6354 and 6445. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:18:47]] For 277 Decision taken. Let us turn to Bill 6354. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on complete general secondary education to expand the possibilities for transforming the educational network and protecting the rights of participants in the educational process. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[13:19:27]] For 209 Decision taken. I would like to invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Julia Mikolayevna Grishin, to speak. Please, Julia Mikolayevno.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u133	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, today we're going to talk about sanatorium schools. Unfortunately, the transformation of sanatorium schools is not going as far as we all want. Regrettably, instead of transforming, sanatorium schools are being eliminated, and children’s rights are being seriously violated. We all remember, a few months ago, the decision of the local authorities in Zakartat when four special and one sanatorium schools were eliminated in one decision. Our bill, which, by the way, is supported by the representatives of all the factions that we have developed with representatives of all factions, with representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, 4354, is directly called upon to solve this problem. We've been living in pandemic conditions for the third year, and protecting the health of our children is a major challenge for you adults. Disposing of the ability to obtain preventive services is not doing this at all. Therefore, given that the minister of health recently stated that a network of rehabilitation facilities is currently being created, we feel that it is not advisable to break the existing system of sanitation schools until an alternative to the MOH emerges. So we decide to continue the transformation of sanatorium schools by 2024. And what I want to say is that we're talking about here in the hall right now, we're discussing what this law is proposing to license sanatorium schools. Colleagues, the licensing of sanatoriums is already provided for by legislation long ago, and all sanatoriums work on the basis of licenses, as well as public education institutions that have medical facilities. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u134	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, the co-rapporteur, to excuse me, the head of the committee's subcommittee on education, science and innovation, Helen Georgieva Lis. Please, Olena Georgieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u135	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation discussed at its meeting on January 27, 22nd, the draft law of Ukraine amending the Law on complete general secondary education on the extension of opportunities for the transformation of the educational network and the protection of the rights of participants in the educational process, introduced by the National Deputy of Grishina and other Ukrainian National Deputies. The bill analysed the conclusions of the relevant central executive authorities and public organizations that were requested by the committee. In particular, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Association of District and District Councils support the bill without notice. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, in support of the idea of the need for approval of the project, makes a proposal to increase the deadline from three months to one year by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the adoption of the legislation necessary for the implementation of the law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also makes a number of comments and suggestions that can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. In the light of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a review of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on complete general secondary education, on the expansion of opportunities for the transformation of the educational network and the protection of the rights of participants in the educational process, introduced by Deputy Grishina. To finalize the proposed bill, including amendments and proposals by legislators, by shortening the deadline for submitting such amendments and proposals by half and submitting it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. Please consider the recommendations of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhailuk Galini Olegovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u137	Please pass the word to the National Deputy of the Shpak Love.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u138	Please, Love Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u139	The love of Shpak, the "Serve of the People" faction. The Sanitary School combines the educational process with the treatment of children with important diseases and the timely prevention of complications. In communities, however, it is generally better to know the needs of educational institutions. Local authorities have been given authority to transform sanatorium schools into other educational institutions based on local needs. And as practice has shown, this process of transformation is going through today. Of the 65 sanatorium schools operating in Ukraine, about 40 are in the process of such a transformation to other schools, especially in the classroom and in the gymnasium. Clearly, a normal educational institution is not able to provide some kind of health-care service to such children. This is why the project proposes to provide for the creation of such facilities in schools that will help in the treatment and training of children. If social demand for children with special needs is very high, there are also special schools and rehabilitation centres. However, there is not enough time for the project to be implemented, and it is this bill that allows for the continuation of the transformation deadline. As for the bill, the bill was supported by all ministries and departments, as well as a bill supported by the Ukrainian City Association. So let's support it, too, because it's because we have to give quality education to children with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u140	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u141	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, this is the second bill on education that we consider today is not very good for Ukrainian Parliamentarianism. I'm very sorry that this second bill, in large numbers, has as little to do with education reform as it did with the previous one. A fairly technical solution, which in fact is largely hampered by reforms in Ukraine that were initiated several years ago. And I want to say that unfortunately, there are no laws in the agenda that could really change the situation in the field of education and science. I still don't understand why on the Conciliation Council yesterday my bill on not assigning rectors and ministers who have plagiarism in scientific work was removed from the agenda. Instead, we have completely technical solutions that go into the agenda. But worse still, the whole education policy, especially higher education, is causing a lot of questions today. Dear colleagues in the Hall, please tell me, and you're not ashamed when the Rector of the newly created University of Kharkiv elects a valid deputy from the Andria Odarchenka "Serve of the People" faction? Please tell me in which world this is acceptable when, if there is a statement to the police that there is a violation of the election procedure, the minister appoints a rector, then postpones the appointment for two years, until the term of office ends. At the same time, at my home university at Kiev-Mogilian Academy, the Ministry refuses to acknowledge the results of the election. Dear colleagues, Mr. Scarlett, who is now listening to us, no minister of education who has fought the Kiev-Mogilian Academy has won, ask the Smoker. I'll tell you more that no president of Ukraine who fought the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy won the same thing, ask yourself who you know. So I strongly encourage conscious and understandable education policies so that we don't hear about some high school graduate with the best results of the NDA going abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u142	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u143	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I give the word to Sergey the High.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u144	Please, Sergey the Magnificent.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u145	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. I'm a major from Rubižny, where there's a Rubižany Sanatorium boarding school that's been eliminated. I thank my colleague Susk Paul for his professional work, for creating the TSC, which deals with difficult issues regarding the elimination of sanatorium schools. He was present at a meeting that raised questions about the transformation of sanatorium schools and how to solve them. Where the governor of the Luhansk region was heard and what actions and solutions were taken regarding the school of Reuben and its financing and resolution. Where we heard only the problematic questions but did not hear their solutions. And this bill doesn't solve all the issues, the problems of transforming the education network and protecting the rights of the participants in the education process, it just continues until 1 July 2024 in a transitional period to change the type of educational institutions. Nor has the issue of adequate funding been resolved, and adequate bills are not made available to the bill. But some questions were asked to the head of the military-civil administration, what solutions and what to do with that. There are certain opportunities and opportunities to provide children with education and conditions to take into account their health. So we're going to support this bill, but it doesn't solve all the questions about the work of sanatorium schools. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u146	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland", please. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u147	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We warned you when you passed a basic law, which, if you'll excuse me, in a hurry to eliminate dozens of schools with a specific form of education and treatment of children over a short period of time, will be a disaster. That's what happened, too bad. Sadly, that was the case. So the concrete benefit of this bill is this: it's a two-and-a-half-year moratorium on this madness, and that's the right thing to do, and it's a positive that needs to be supported. Believe me, when this question was discussed on an online committee, we invited the heads of such institutions, and how painful it was to hear and hear that in four years, it wasn't that nobody came from the basic ministry, the calls were even gone. Guys, there are problems here, of course, and they need to be solved in two and a half years. Whether they will be re-profiled, whether they will have a different status, can be studied in detail during this time. What we're offering. Either we leave a rule in this law -- a moratorium, and we don't have to go into other procedures that are unfortunately not regulated in this law, or we have to settle them for the second reading. What, though, are specific services? We need to open them up. What are these units that are going to be sanatorium prevention in schools? What about their structure? What are the functions? The license was already here, whether it was necessary or not. But no, the license will probably be necessary, because it's medical services. So for the second reading, we either clean it up and let the government do it, or we decrypt it. And so I want to thank all the authors, starting with Julia Mikolayevna, for having introduced this law, they listened to the wishes of Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u148	Yeah, just a minute. Please, it's Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna. Then Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich and Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich. And then we go to the vote. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill, because children are the subject of this bill. Children with diseases that have complex diseases, and unfortunately they already have problems with life, and we are also creating educational problems through Ukrainian legislation. I want to thank the working group that worked, the TSC, who have studied the problem in depth. And actually, even though it's an extension of the problem, we have to vote for it. And the second. We urge the government to increase funding for children with care in education. For 2022, the unallocated cost of providing patronage for the individual form of education in secondary education institutions is almost 3 billion dollars. I think it's a crime to save these kids in a situation like this. That's why it's mine first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u150	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of "European Solidarity". Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, we will continue to vote in favour of this bill. The other one. I want to thank the students, the teachers and the colleagues of the Kiev-Magilian Academy for not having the power to falsify the election and choose who the authorities want. That's it! And the key. This morning from this rostrum, Mr. Zelensky said he supported the Ukrainian army. I don't believe it! Let me explain. Because it's one thing to talk and piranha, the other thing to do. Why? You don't want to vote an extra 50 billion for the army in this room today. And the second. A month ago, the Supreme Council adopted the Law concerning the Admission of Military Forces of Other States to Ukraine in 2022 for participation in multinational education. Green still hasn't signed it. If you are not afraid of Putin, sign it today, if you support the army - today!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u152	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u153	Dear Head, dear colleagues, well, it would seem like a technical law -- a change in the term from 2022 to 2024. But in fact, this law clearly shows the systemic problems that exist today in Ukraine and in the context of these so-called reforms -- education, deinstitutionalization and many others, who unfortunately have forgotten children. Therefore, the basic law has defined some dates to which children’s institutions should be closed, but there is no date and responsibility for officials who need to create alternative services in communities at the base level. So I think we need to stop this practice of date transfer, delete this rule in principle, take a systematic approach, as the interim commission of inquiry today does, to protect the rights of the child in any reform initiated by either the government or in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of matters of the order of the day. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal to take it as a base, and also to cut it by half, so I'm going to put it in a row. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on complete general secondary education on the extension of opportunities for the transformation of the educational network and the protection of the rights of participants in the educational process (project registration number 6354). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:38:14]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is still a committee proposal. No, well, the committee proposes to cut in half the series of amendments, suggestions and amendments and preparations for the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, there's no such proposal for a committee, dear colleagues. If it were on the basis of the whole, I would. Look, I don't know. [[B in m in s a l in]] Head of the committee, huh? No, the committee head says "no." Abbreviations. So let's support the shortenings so that they can work quickly. And since we're going to go out to the Parliamentary Hall so that we can vote, too. Therefore, I propose to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of article 116 of the Bill’s Rules of Law 6354. Please vote. [[13:39:20]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. We'll take 14 days to make amends. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, we voted to include it in today's agenda, is a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on priority directions for science and technology and innovation (project number 6445). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:40:01]] For 203 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, author of this bill. Please, Dmitri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u155	Good afternoon, dear fellows! To your attention, Bill 6445 on amending some of Ukraine's laws on the priorities of science and technology and innovation. At the same time, it's a simple bill, but it's the right thing to do with science. Why did this question arise? According to the formation and use of the National Research Fund, Ukraine's budget is aimed at grant support for fundamental scientific research in the field of natural, technical, social and humanitarian sciences and applied scientific research and scientific and technical development in the priority areas of science and technology development, as defined by the relevant law. More specifically, such priorities were determined by 2021. During the 22nd year, the priority directions are not approved. The corresponding budget programme in the U.S. state budget for 2022 provides 833 million dollars. Why? In order for the budget to be used, there is a need for approved science and technology development priorities for the 22nd year. Bill 6445 solves the problem. His goal is to continue with the current priorities for the 22nd year. In view of this, it is therefore urgent to adopt this bill to amend certain Ukrainian laws on the priorities of science and technology and innovation. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u156	Thank you, Dmitri Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite a co-rapporteur, the head of the committee's subcommittee on education, science and innovation, Valery Viktorovich Koluch. Please, Valery Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u157	Honourable national MPs, taking into account the threats posed in the current year by scientific, scientific and technical research in connection with the end of the 2021 deadline for scientific and technological development and innovation, the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation considers it appropriate to continue their operation until the end of 2022 and, in accordance with its decision of 26.01.2022, adopted the following decision. To include in the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth call for a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the priority directions of science and technology and innovation (registration number 6445), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Larissa Bilozur and other national deputies, as well as in accordance with article 114, part one and part two, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Education and Science recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the consideration of the adoption of Bill 6445 in the first reading on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these issues? Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. The word is given to James Paul Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u159	Please pass the word to Grishku Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u160	Roman Gritchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u161	Friends, what's this law about? We're changing the 2021 by 2022, all of it. Instead of one, two. And the two of us wanted to put the Ministry of Education behind us for what we need to do now. We're continuing the science and technology development priorities that were adopted 10 years ago. Why do we keep going? Because we can't finance science right now. We've got the money for science. We've got science. The National Research Fund wants to give money to scientists, it can't do that, because we don't have approved new priorities for science and technology and we just have to go on for a year, so it shouldn't be. I am deeply grateful to the authors of this bill. We have to vote for it as a whole. And the Ministry of Education, along with the Ministry of Economics and the Academy of Sciences, have to develop new priorities for science and technology development and give the Supreme Council approval, not the Cabinet of Ministers, how they want to do it. We vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u162	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich. Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u163	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, of course, education, science -- these are the basic principles that distinguish today's developed countries from the underdeveloped ones. And of course, if we want to change the situation in our country, human capital is our job. But where do we see this in reality in our country? Do we see this when these green pear projects are only about education and science? The Presidential University is half a billion dollars. Where are you going? There are large numbers in the state of universities where there are beggars and there is no support. No, a new pear project! And get away from the Mogilian girl. Those who began to touch it always ended badly. The other one. Once again, the presidential fund is another half billion dollars. But let's give this billion dollars to real science, real education. And I'm giving you an example of how to work. We're in one year, today exactly the year we started opening the Goncharenko Centers in Ukraine. The first two centers opened on February 1, last year, with 24 centers opened. More than 100,000 people in small towns in Ukraine have passed through these centers. Over 10,000 people completed their English studies, got A2. And we see it and we do it right now without any budget, without billions, without millions, without any, thanks to people, thanks to our partners and patrons on Patreon. By the way, I urge everyone to support us. We have three centers on Donbas: Constantine, Lyman, Kramatorsky, who work there. We have a center under Kharkiv 30 kilometers from the Russian border. From the west to the east, from the north to the south, that's how it's supposed to be done. Join these initiatives, stop spending the budget on pear projects. Education and culture is what will change our state, it's our capital. Not land, not even oil. People!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u164	Alexiyyovich, I would just like to ask you the next time on the subject of the bill. It's very interesting -- educational centers, but we have questions about the direction of science and technology. Thank you. I invite you to the word of Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u165	Thank you, Your Honor. Please pass the word to one of the youngest Doctors of Science, Coltunovich Alexander. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u166	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, one of the youngest doctors of science.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u167	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich Schofrich. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not support the proposed changes, as colleagues have already stressed that from 2011 to 2021 appropriate priorities for innovation have been proposed. These projects were developed as early as 2010. Well, do you think that in an area like innovation policy, the innovative development of the economy hasn't changed anything in 10 years? I don't mind if we finance scientific research, scientific research and research and development. But look at the list, there are the strategic priorities that are defined, and there are other priorities. It is impossible, and it is not possible, for us to do things today and to finance things. So in my opinion, if you're going to continue it, you're going to make full changes to the relevant two articles, you're going to apply those changes that already apply, and you're going to propose completely new priorities and strategic priorities for innovation, for example, from 2022 to 2030. Because the next decade, it defines completely different priorities for innovation. And another very important point, given that our colleagues have already set a tone for the discussion. I also want to focus on de-intellectualization in society, on forced destruction of science in Ukraine, on non-financialization of scientific institutions, on the situation where scientific research institutions are forced to go on part-time work, on part-time work week, the pay fund is not funded from the state budget, and this is the fundamental problem of our country when you don't finance science, and de-jure and de-declarate these priorities. So I'm going to suggest you completely rewrite these two articles and define completely different strategic priorities for innovation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u168	Yes, the word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Sussun Inna Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u169	Please, Sausoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u170	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, let's be honest about this bill. The Ukrainian government is obliged to make decisions on the so - called priorities of science and technology. The government didn't manage to do that. What do we now do with this law? We extend the action of the pre-adopted decision on the priorities of science and technology. It's funny and tragic at the same time, because when the government doesn't have politics in the field of science, unfortunately, that's what we end up paying for. And that's not really the only problem that we're fixing right now. Do you know, your honorary colleagues, who, over the course of a year, never met the Scientific Committee, an institution that was created in the framework of science reform, started a few years ago, and this institution is called upon to direct the development of science in Ukraine. The Year of Prime Minister Schmigal does not call the Scientific Committee. Now, from this rostrum, I'm a colleague from Voice, and I know exactly what the members of the education committee are doing, and we're asking the Prime Minister to pay attention to this. We can't ignore the development of science in Ukraine anymore, because in the end, we're going to pay for it together as a society. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this law must be voted for. Although I can honestly tell you that if we vote for him, nothing will change, just as nothing will change if we do not vote for him. I'm very sorry that it's the kind of law that ends up in the daytime, but it's ultimately the will of the majority and your responsibility. But I want to go back to this rostrum so that we can actually focus on the development of science. It's embarrassing when we can't approve a banal document at the level of government just because there's no initiative, there's no understanding of the strategic importance of science. I appeal to Prime Minister Schmigal, and the law let's vote, and then let's move on to those laws that will really change something in Ukrainian science and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. And please, of course, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, the "Fatherland" faction. Who else is there? I see, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, the three words that characterize this bill. As the lyrics say, you don't throw out the song, they sound like, "For the state, it's offensive." Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, why is there no professional vice-remier in the hall when considering such a bill, not half the ministry involved? Guys, there's almost a war in the country for eight years. There is no defence complex in the priority areas of innovation and development. During this period, the main burden of the economy took over the agro-industrial complex system. There are no APC priorities. We continue to produce raw materials, surprise the entire world with crops, and export what is called primary processing or pure raw materials. We get 16 billion dollars in income and we're proud of it. Other countries get 10 times more under these conditions. Ruslan Alexiyovich, we will vote with shame, but the government's mandate is to make these proposals immediately. What is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u173	Thank you. Please give me your word, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the "Trust" MP again draws the Ukrainian Government's attention to the need for extremely serious, responsible, thorough preparation of documents, especially of such a strategic programmatic nature, including the development of Ukrainian education, Ukrainian science, and the development of innovative technologies. And we all understood very well when only on December 10 last year did the government change the existing legislative framework and suggested setting priorities for innovation for the coming years. Was it not clear that we were not able to process them and accept them? So today's decision and the need for a decision to be made now is obvious, but it needs to be made very carefully in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u175	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of this bill, please prepare for the vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. There's a proposal for the committee to take as a whole, but we're going to do it in turn, as we always do. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the priorities of science and technology and innovation (registration number 6445). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:55:39]] For 271 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the priorities of science and technology and innovation (project number 6445). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:56:15]] For 271 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I'm going to read one piece of information right now and then we're going to go to other questions. One second. A statement came from the national deputy, Oleg Voronka. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and part of the third article of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal of the political party's deputy faction "Serve of the People". Dear colleagues, let's move on, let's move on. We still have three draft decrees for the establishment of temporary commissions of inquiry: 4657, 6196 and 6428. Let's start with the first one. We are considering the draft of Decree 4457 — the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Facts That Contributed to the Temporary Occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This question does not need to be included in the agenda. And I'd like to make an offer to consider it in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, please vote. One second, stop. What do you got? Now, one second, we've got something. I'm sorry, something was not ready, so one more time. No, they've already told us. I would like to suggest that you consider this motion for a summary ruling. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:58:27]] For 206 Decision taken. I invite the author of this decree, National Deputy of Ukraine, Elizabeth Petrovna Bogucka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u176	Well, at last. Finally, my friends, we came up eight years after the start of the occupation of Crimea to the issues that have been silent for all these years, and which we have to investigate by the parliamentary commission right now, although we should have done this investigation much earlier. Winston Churchill once said, "If a country chooses between war and shame, it will receive both war and shame." By the end of February 14, the occupation of Crimea by the Russian Federation had begun. There is no doubt that it was Putin who ordered the capture of the peninsula, the holding of an illegal referendum there, and that he, as President of Russia, then accepted the Autonomous Republic of Crimea into the Russian Federation as a separate Federal District of Russia, which is not recognized by all the democratic countries of the world. But did the Ukrainian authorities do everything to prevent this from happening? What preluded the occupation of Crimea, and what circumstances or facts contributed to this and made the seizure of Crimea possible? Was it possible to avoid these circumstances or their consequences? Have all the possibilities been exhausted to make Russia’s attempts at state sovereignty and the territorial integrity of Ukraine impossible? Because it wasn't Russia's first attempt to cut off the Crimea from Ukraine, but they all ended up being a fiasco for the Russian Federation. The preparation and creation of the TSK has been a long, almost two years, only two factions have volunteered to give their representatives, this is Gregory Nemir "The Fatherland," thank you very much, and Olega Volosin of the OPCW, also very much thank you. In spite of this, I urge everyone to vote in favour of creating a Temporary Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u177	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u178	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Ordinance establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of facts that contributed to the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (Registration No. 4657). According to the proposals of parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups, it is proposed to select deputies from the factions of the People's Party, the Opposition Platform for Life, and the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Other parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups have not made their proposals regarding the number and personal composition of this commission. With regard to the drafting of the draft order, the committee concluded that paragraph 3 of the draft regulation, which states that the quantification of the interim commission of inquiry is 10 national deputies of Ukraine, based on the standardization practice for the use of numerals "ten and more than ten" should be replaced by "10". In addition, paragraph 5 of the draft decree requires editorial clarification of the names of Ukrainian national deputies who are proposed to be elected as a member of the interim commission of inquiry, namely to write them in a gender difference. In view of what has been said, the committee recommends that the Parliament review the draft Decree (registration 4657) taking into account the editorial details of the committee and take a decision in accordance with article 138, part 3, of the Supreme Council Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u179	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please, Maxim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u180	I'd like to give you the word "Kravchuk Eugenia."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u181	Eugenia Mikhailna Kravchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u182	Cowchuk Eugenia, "Serial of the People" faction. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to begin my speech with an important quote, so that no one else will even think about reaching out to our sovereignty for our territorial integrity or taking away part of the territory in Ukraine without a single shot, that will never happen, and those who have given up the Crimea without a fight will be held accountable. That is what President Vladimir Zelensky said in his letter of October 20, 2020. The fact that Russia’s main culprit and aggressor are not questioned is that there were those who challenged our enemy’s task with their actions or criminal activity, and that everyone should feel responsible, the necessary awareness of its irreversability. We have seven sentences in Crimea, seven sentences in 1,000, 500 runs that have not yet been completed. That's why our "Serial of the People" faction emphasizes the importance of creating a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts that contributed to the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, which is to verify, collect information within a year, participate in meetings with law enforcement authorities to bring the guilty to justice eventually. It's a matter of society's trust in us, members of the Supreme Council, as well as the entire law enforcement system. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u183	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Konstankevitch Irina Miroslavovni, the MP's Party for the Future. Please, Irina Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u184	Please give the floor to National Deputy Igor Volodymyrovich Guza.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u185	Please, Igor Volodymyrovich Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u186	Dear friends, no doubt if we wish to consider this issue in our Parliament's second year, no one will forbid it, but at the same time there are a number of other issues that have been on the table for the past two years and, unfortunately, there is no way to reach them. I'm communicating, not just me, many of us, with the veterans who were in Debaltsev, who were in Ilovisk, who also require TSK and openly investigate the situation that was then. It was very painful, especially for the families of those who died there and so on, people did not see or know the truth. That's why I encourage most of us to look at both Debaltz's and Ilovy's questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u187	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u188	First of all, I would like to thank the activists who today supported 121 Kremlin criminals. We don't forget for a second that Crimea is Ukraine. And it's very painful that Ukraine lost Crimea in 2014. I absolutely believe it's temporary. Let's talk, we don't mind having this conversation about why it happened. Let's talk about the Kharkiv Accords, when the Russian contingent in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was doubled when Russian military were allowed to move around the peninsula, making the occupation so brilliant when Midan was in Kiev and when people were shot. And when the legitimacy of the Kiev authorities was, let's say, great doubts, especially with those law enforcement officers who were working in the Crimea at the time. Let's talk about the PNB meeting that was on the last day of February when this issue was resolved. I was there, and I am a living witness, as are many of our colleagues, who spoke and how they voted. Perhaps this conversation is appropriate. But to those who are now talking about "no shot in the Crimea" and the surrender of Crimea, I want to tell you one simple thing. What has changed, colleagues, since 2014? In the legal sense, Crimea is Ukraine. If that's how you want to shoot, go with your guns in your hands, fire Crimea. Go with your weapons in your hands and release Donbas Ukrainian, and don't keep shooting that cheap pierre and the show when you talk to him. You don't know that TSC is an object of opposition? You have all the power. You have all the law enforcement organs. If you want to do something, do it easily. Strengthen the army and do not turn Ukraine into Bollywood and Mos Film.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u189	The word is given to National Deputy Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u190	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to Scorch Mikoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u191	Please, Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u192	People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, you know, as a national deputy, as former Minister of Finance of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I would love to vote in favour of this decree and learn with the people of Ukraine what Ukrainian high-ranking officials did in February 14th when Ukraine lost Crimea. But I won't do it, I'll explain why. Because over the course of this cadence, our faction has repeatedly raised questions about the restoration of the interim commission of inquiry on the events in Maidan, on the killing of people in Maidan, and on the events of May 2, 2014 in Odessa. Unfortunately, this has not been done, and our faction believes that we are talking about any temporary commission of inquiry on the ground that these events have not been investigated -- beyond hypocrisy, beyond cynicism. It is impossible not to investigate the killing of our own citizens in the peaceful cities of our country. I think Ukraine needs to get to the bottom of this. I think the national MPs should understand that without investigating these issues, we cannot move forward. I think it's unacceptable to talk about any other temporary commission of inquiry. And I want to stress that, and I want to go to the faction "Serial of the People," which registered Bill 6467, along with the faction "Voice," a man-hating bill that stipulates that those people who killed people on 2 May in Odessa are going to be like the so-called members of the Dignity Revolution, they're going to be entitled to all the benefits. I demand that the "Serial of the People" faction give a clear political assessment of this bill, because without it it's really a man-hating draft of Law 6467, and now those who are stained with being killed are cheering.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, come on. Dear colleagues, I would ask for mutual respect in the hall. And I say again and again, I want to keep the Ukrainian language in the room. "Chomodan" is a Ukrainian suitcase. Let's do that somehow. Dear colleagues, everyone has made a statement on this matter. Does anyone else want to? Samantha Bobrowski, right? Please, Samantha Bobrowski. I'm sorry, I don't see very well without my glasses.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u194	Samantha Bobrowski. You know, unfortunately, not all of them were present at the RNA meetings, but everyone would love to put dots on "and" and understand chronology, not only in fact chronology, but also the names of the people behind the actions that were taken from the end of February to the end of March, and until the holding of the so-called occupational and totally falsified referendum. Because our many friends, both civil and military, were present there with their assignments and operations, and they are still asking how this happened. And I'd like this TSC to answer why the previous finance minister, AR Crime, is standing in Parliament today, not sitting behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u195	Yeah, Homeland hasn't reported yet, has she? Please, Ivanovich Krulko. Anyone else after that? And Shahov, right? And then we go to the vote. Please, Ivanovich Krulko. Then Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u196	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. "Paternality" will support this draft decision, because we certainly need to investigate all the events that took place in 2014 regarding the occupation of Crimea. But we should not forget that we have a temporarily occupied part of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, where in fact the Russian administration exercises full control over Ukrainian territories. So I think this TSC has to be complex. And we suggest that the TSC also add questions to the temporarily occupied areas of Donbas, the boilers where Ukrainian soldiers died. What happened in Ilowaysk and Debaltsev. And we believe that this TSK must be comprehensive in all the events that Russian aggression and occupation of part of Ukraine have led to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u197	Thank you. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahov. And let's go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u198	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". We will certainly support every TSC that protects people and investigates all crimes. Above all, all the power structures should prove to us, parliamentarians, and all the Ukrainian society, whether punished or unpunished. First. The murderers of a Ukrainian citizen, a volunteer, who had found many crimes (the name Sergey Samarsky), who had been killed in the middle of the white day, which was introduced into the TSK by Catherine Hansuk, have not yet been given anything on the surface. Next. Those TSKs that were created and voted, 319 national deputies supported the TSK, which investigated fires in Luhansk region, where 16 people were burned alive, 22 billion dollars were damaged by our state, and so far no one has given us anything from the investigation. Please tell someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to the committee to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts that contributed to the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (project No. 4657). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:14:47]] For 229 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The following is the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry (6196). This is a draft decree establishing a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible facts of illegal and ineffective conduct by government authorities, local self-government of measures to improve the management and deregulation of land relations (territorial decentralization). This question does not need to be included in the agenda. At the same time, I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified way. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:15:34]] For 204 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the address of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdanec Andrija Volodymyrovich. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u200	Comrades, good afternoon! What's the TSC talking about? In connection with decentralization and land reform from state property, a significant amount of land was transferred to the municipal property of the territorial communities, which would contribute to the development of land communities. However, a number of problems have been identified in the implementation of reforms. There are many issues before the use of municipal property. Thus, in the media and in numerous appeals to Ukrainian national deputies, it is noted that in our country there remains a mass of land rentals of agricultural land that are constantly used by state and municipal enterprises, institutions, organizations. Businesses transferred to private companies are also transferred to the land on the basis of questionable contracts, which are virtually fictitious leases. Also one of the most common forms of shadowy use of the State’s land assets is the arbitrary occupation of land areas, whose mass use for its own benefit without any legal basis leads to a reduction in the budgetary revenues of both the State and local governments. Experts estimate the magnitude of corruption in hundreds of millions of dollars a year. I would also like to point out that the Association of Cities, as well as the Association of Communities, sent in support of the creation of such a TSC to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the head of the "Serve of the People" faction, and to the Committee on Land Reforms. Please support the TSC, it's very important to the communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u201	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u202	Honorary Presidium, Honourable National Deputies, Regulatory Committee at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Possible Facts and Ineffective Implementation of Government Authorities, Local Self-Government Measures to Improve the System of Administration and Deregulation of Land Relations (or Land Decentralization), by the People’s Deputy Bogdanec and others (Registration No. 6196). The proposals for this interim commission of inquiry were made by the parliamentary factions of the "Serve of the People", the "Fathership" union and the "Trust" parliamentary group. Other parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups did not make any proposals. The Regulatory Committee noted that the faction of the People's Servant Party had been proposed to select a member of this interim commission of inquiry of the People's Deputies of Odarchenk, who was also invited to elect another interim commission of inquiry into corruption at state-owned enterprises, institutions and organizations of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (registration number 5196), which had been developed and introduced by the national deputy Gunk. And then, he stressed to the regulatory committee, if Parliament adopted one of the above-mentioned draft Supreme Council decrees and was elected to form a temporary commission of inquiry by the Odarchenk People's Deputies, he could not be elected to another interim commission of inquiry. In view of the above, the regulatory committee recommends that Parliament consider the draft regulation and take a decision in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u203	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy of Kisilev Dmitry Davidovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u204	Please pass the word to Paul Halimon.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u205	Paul Halimon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, please support the draft Ordinance on the creation of a temporary inquiry commission in view of the fact that this is likely to result in significant losses in the State's income and contribute to increasing the level of corruption in state-owned enterprises, as well as in the executive authorities that manage the land of state property. In view of the foregoing, there is an urgent need to find out the real situation of the realization of the legitimate rights and interests of the territorial communities in the use of state and municipal property in Ukraine, and to explore the legality and effectiveness of state and municipal property lands, as well as the work of quality legislative initiatives to remedy the shortcomings identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u207	Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u208	Dear Mr. Head, I give you my word to Mr. Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u209	Please, Arthur Gerasimov, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, repeatedly in this room, and in general we were saying that the temporary commission of inquiry is an instrument of opposition. Because in this power, this is the first case in the history of Ukraine, everything in their hands, starting with the so-called monopoly, starting with the Cabinet of Ministers of Greens and ending with all the law enforcement agencies. And now all law enforcement agencies, as a team, are attacking the opposition instead of actually fighting corruption in the country and instead of protecting the country from external influence. And when a majority of people today make decisions about the creation of temporary commissions of inquiry, I only have one question in two parts. Do they really not believe their law enforcement authorities? Or, let's put it this way, on the team of the Green Fault and the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing? That is why we will not support this draft decision. But in addition, I would like to pay attention to both the Parliament's leadership and the Ukrainians, that the European Solidarity Order has been registered for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry regarding the thefts from the Antiquities Fund. This really bothers the Ukrainians, this is really the opposition, but unfortunately it's not only not included in the order of the enni, but it's also blocked for the agenda. So I have a big request for representatives of the Zelensky team: don't be afraid to investigate the theft of an antiquities fund. You say they're not here, so if they're not there, vote for the European Solidarity Order on the investigation, on the creation of the TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u211	Please, Keith Andrey Bogdanovich, MP's "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u212	Please give Oleg Kulinich the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u213	Please, Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP will vote in favour of this draft decree, as well as other draft regulations that relate to establishing the system in the country's land relations. Regrettably, there are many abuses today, both with state lands and with municipal lands in the country. It loses the state budget, it loses the budgets of the communities, it's land issues, it's budgeting and it's filling the budgets of the communities. Many lands are used informally, without adequate leases, and the community loses huge costs. So it's going to take a long time to put this in order, communities have to work, they have to get the money from the use, from the rental of these land, and people have to feel it for the projects that each community has to implement. So let's support this draft decision and start moving in the right direction, that is to say, making the system in the country's land relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At first, a majority vote in favour of supporting a series of factions in favour of the unconstitutional Land Market Act, then a majority vote in favour of supporting a series of factions in favour of the unconstitutional Order on the Disposal of Areas, then a number of factions do not vote in favour of a real reform of the law enforcement system. And now, for a real fight against land abuse and the circulation of agricultural land, we're being offered another Oxysic in the form of a temporary commission of the Supreme Council, which certainly can't solve all the problems that you yourself have caused by unconstitutional solutions and by the inaction of not creating a real system of law enforcement organs that would actually engage in abuses in any normal state in this area. I mean, in a row instead of a real, serious, professional, systematic job, we're offered some kind of binoculars that won't accomplish anything, that will allow someone to look at it and not more. We need to stop this approach to the work of the Supreme Council, to the functioning of the state and to the adoption of Ukrainian legislation, we need to sit and watch. Dear colleagues, there is such a story, such a thing as causation. So the adoption of the unconstitutional Law on Land and Land Abuse is a direct causal link between one event and another. So I'm talking to you: change your attitude to law enforcement, adopt normal laws, and then you don't have to create completely inefficient and inefficient TSCs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u217	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Sergey Rudik, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, well, I agree to all one hundred with Sergei Vlasenko. After voting for a disgraceful bill, which you call "the market of the earth," you have given birth to this problem, which is now practically applicable in every corner of our country. Not handed over on time, inefficient use, public enterprises. Ukraine’s Conquest, Remember? There are no horses, and the Ukrainian Conquest lives, lives in the souls of those people who viewed this DP as a place for corruption and their tools. I don't talk about the land to the participants in the fighting anymore. How many of them are standing in the ranks of the local executive authorities today in the hope that they will be given this land on which they fought and shed their blood. Our parliamentary group will not support this decision. We think you've given birth to this problem yourself, and solve it yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u219	Nestor Ivanovich Schufric, please, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, we are, in principle, not against the adoption and creation of such a commission of inquiry, but the question arises, who is the initiator? The initiator is the representatives of the majority. Please tell me, do you lack law enforcement? What do you miss? You can now investigate everything from the beginning to the end and from the end to the beginning. And the actions of the Dergeocadaster during the transfer of land from state to municipal property and to community property. Surprisingly, you adopt the law, you hurry, and then you create the commission of inquiry. About what to investigate yourself? Well, you certainly have to investigate, especially when they're stealing land, but you're stealing it. So we insist that what the minister of agrarian politics has to say. Where are the millions of hectares that have been stolen? Now what, did you split it up again? Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. People's deputies please take their seats. We are preparing to vote in favour of this draft decree. Let's move on to making a decision, dear colleagues. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the possible illegal and ineffective conduct of State authorities, local self-government measures to improve the management and deregulation of land relations (land decentralization) (project registration number 6196). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Ready? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:30:11]] For-187 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next draft of the Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Murder of Judge Kremenczuk District Court of Kremenczuk Poltawsk District of Lobodenka Alexander Stanislavovic and City Head of the city of Kremenchuk Poltava District of Babejev Oleg Meidanović is a criminal conduct number 1201417011000192, introduced to the GDR 11.02. 2014 (project registration number 6428). Dear colleagues, consideration of this issue does not need to be included in the agenda. I'm the only one who's offering to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:31:13]] For-187 Decision taken. I invite the rapporteur, Ukrainian national deputy Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u222	Honorary Presidium, Honourable National Deputies, February 11, 2014 in the city of Kremenchuk Poltavsk district of the Firearms, was killed by the judge of the Kremenchuk District Court of Krementaw district of Lobodenka Aleksandra Stanislavovic. On July 26, 2014, the city’s head of the city of Kremenchuk Poltav district of Babeyev, Oleg Meidanović, was killed in the same firearms. Three persons are suspected of committing a criminal offence by criminal conduct, but this resonance is not investigated and prolonged. Taking into account the resonance of the killing of Judge Kremenczuk of the Kremenczuk District Court of Krementawsk of Lobodenka Stanislavovic and the city head of the city of Kremenczuk of Poltava, and the numerous violations of the law in the course of the conduct of the pretrial investigation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to carry out its control function, to examine and establish all the causes and circumstances of the murder, and to ensure the transparency and impartiality of its investigation, to establish the appropriateness of the follow-up in the matter of the Constitution and the requirements of the current procedural legislation through the establishment of the Provisional Follow-up Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of these killings. We have received several petitions from defenders about disturbing signs of a violation in the investigation of this criminal offence. Please, colleagues, support the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on Questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u223	Thank you, Mikhailovich. I invite the co-rapporteur – the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Sergio Mikolaiovich Evtushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u224	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee at its meeting on 15 December 2021 reviewed the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation into the murder of the judge of the Kremenčuk District Court of Krementavsk District of Lobodenka Alexander Stanislavovic and the city head of the city of Kremencuk Poltaw district of Babejev Oleg Meidanovic, criminal conduct No. In 2014, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Michael Zimbaluk (registration number 6428) (since 14.12.2021). As a result of the review of the draft Regulation, registration number 6428 of the Committee reached its conclusion and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the draft Decree 6428 by voting on the Committee's observations and proposals. This is the title of the draft decree to be issued in such an editorial paper on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances that led to the death of the judge of the Auto-Zavodsk District Court of the city of Kremenchuk of Polbodenka and the city head of the city of Kremenchuk of Poltav district of Babejeva. Items 1 and 2 of the Drafting Order. "Paragraph 1. Create a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances that led to the death of Judge Kremenczuk District Court of Kremenczuk of Lobodenka and the city head of the city of Kremenczuk of Poltava district of Babeyeva (hereinafter the interim commission of inquiry). “Paragraph 2. To determine the main task of the Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the circumstances that led to the death of Judge Kremenczuk District Court of Kremenczuk of Lobodenka and the head of the city of Kremenczuk of Poltava." In paragraph 5 of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u225	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal, let's vote it out without discussion. Let's not discuss it. All right, colleagues? Is there any objection? There will be no objection. Because we still want to do a few ratifications. So, dear fellows, I propose. I put to the vote the whole draft Order establishing the Temporary Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Murder of Judge Kremenczuk District Court of Kremenczuk Poltava District of Lobodenka Alexander Stanislavovic and City Head of the city of Kremenczuk Poltaw district of Babejeva Oleg Meidanović - Criminal Conduct No. 1201417011000192, introduced to the GDR 11.02. 2014 (project registration number 6428). Ready to vote? Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm putting the committee's proposals on the basis of the committee's proposals that were added. Of course, on the basis and in general. Adoption as a whole with the committee's proposals. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:37:18]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is still a proposal to move on to denunciation and ratification. In particular, the proposal is to consider 0064, 0065, 0101, and 0130, 0131. Out of procedure, please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u226	Dear Mr. Head, as regards the denunciation of various agreements with the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, I always insist on discussion, including this time. Why? Because if this applies, for example, to the economy, it's direct damage to the national economy. If this applies to a number of other social life processes, it also has a direct impact on the lives of Ukrainian citizens. So I'm going to insist on fully discussing these draft regulations in order to give our colleagues a position on actually criminalizing such actions in relation to the national economy and the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u227	Alexander Sergiyovich, and this proposal, I just want to offer you. Can we discuss the three of them on a full program and vote on the rest? Will you insist that everyone discuss it? We're talking about one. We'll be able to discuss one. Okay, what if we talk about two and you give the rest? Because we have very little time. Come on, I'll bet, we'll talk about it first. So, my dear colleagues, I'm looking into the draft law on Ukraine's exit from the Protocol on Approval of the Order of Organization and Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures. Wait a second. Thank you very much for the compromise. So, dear colleagues, we're talking about one thing, and we're all voting on the rest. Dear colleagues, and two. Well, then we won't be able to just vote on the rest. Then let us consider the matter. Project Registration No. 0064 is a draft law on the exit of Ukraine from the Protocol on the Approval of the Order of Organizing and Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures in the Areas of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:40:29]] For 190 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Head of the Security Service, Andruszczennik Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please. Please, the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation Network Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u228	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I think this is a matter of national security, and we need to get out of these international agreements as soon as possible so that, especially in the conditions under which we are under stress, we don't give the aggressor a chance to use it for provocations and use these SND contracts. The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on June 16, 2021, reviewed the draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine's withdrawal from the Protocol on the Approval of the Order of Organization and Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures in the SND States and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the proposed draft Ukrainian law. The purpose of the bill is to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the termination of the Protocol for Ukraine to approve the Order of Organise and to carry out joint anti-terrorist measures in the territories of the States participating in the Commonwealth of Independent States. The Russian Federation's armed aggression in Ukraine, the promotion of secession and terrorism in the eastern region of Ukraine severely violates human rights and fundamental freedoms in Ukraine, leads to the death of Ukrainian military and civilian citizens, destabilizing the political and economic situation in Ukraine. These actions by Russia violate the principles of international relations, undermine the rule of law and security of the world, violate the rights and freedoms of people living in Ukraine. Given the further escalation in the conflict zone in eastern Ukraine, and given that Ukraine did not take part in the practical measures envisaged by this programme during 2014-2015, Ukraine's exit from the protocol is appropriate. So, dear colleagues, please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u229	Thank you, Your Honor. We agreed, we'll discuss this. I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Anyone who doesn't want to talk about it, don't talk about it. Please sign in, Your Honor. The word is given to the national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u230	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u231	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, it's kind of strange that we're at the eighth year of the war looking at these kinds of bills and we're finally leaving, and we're going to cut all the ends of the SND. And what's more, I'm going to remind everyone that this is where the children's organization is speaking, the Collective Security Treaty Organization. And I'm hoping that none of my colleagues will do anything as ridiculous as the former official of the "Serve of the People" faction does about what he's calling for in the Kiev U.S.O.K. to solve some of the issues. It seems to me that according to such sentences and phrases, criminal conduct and interrogation should serve as a minimum. That's the first one. The second and most important is when the Constitution of Ukraine has already established a status for Euro-Atlantic and European integration. Moreover, with the signed Association Agreement with the EU and more, having a partnership with the expanded possibilities with NATO, we are still in Parliament today, unfortunately, continuing to talk about the completion and withdrawal of Ukraine from the Protocol on the Order of Organization or Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures, which is, in principle, a nonsensus, or a common agricultural market, or migration issues, etc. So clearly, for, and one more time, Parliament will see who is speaking for a vector of development, which is, in principle, already established in our Constitution. Thank you. So it's definitely a yes. We're voting for all of the outcomes of the agreements that apply to the SND. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u233	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Danuci Alexandr Anatolyevich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, the question is quite clear. This is about the security of our country, this is about the lives of our citizens, this is about our territories, so let's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u235	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u236	Please give the floor to an expert on SND and cooperation with these countries, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u237	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u238	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we all understand the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And understanding the tension that unfortunately takes place now not only inside the country but also outside, and in these circumstances, it is now time to consider the laws on the exit from the various agreements related to the SND. SND is not just and not so much Russia, it is also many other countries that treat us as friendly people who view us as their friends and partners. And these peoples of the Ukrainians also view them as friendly. And, dear colleagues, I want to read you two quotes about how Ukraine is different and how to act under these conditions. The first quote of the famous Ukrainian classic: "We must learn to hear ourselves from the Ukrainians -- not from Galician, not from Bucovian Ukrainians, but from Ukrainians without official borders." Who do you think said that? This was said by the great John Franco. He understood that Ukraine should be the only one and strong in its diversity. And we have different regions of the SND countries. And another quote, she's a Russian classic. I ordered a translation, you can use headphones. And when Alexander Pushkin said: "We are killed from within, but it does not change for years."..
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u239	Nestor Ivanovich. Nestor Ivanovich, I would ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u240	And today I ask the authorities not to lie, not to steal, not to steal, but to take care of the people of Ukraine and to serve what you are called, the people of Ukraine, and to fight for peace and prosperity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u241	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, in fact, the SND today is equal to what is called the ODCB, which is actually now transformed into a new version of the USSR, which is what Russian President Vladimir Putin hopes for. We've seen how this ODCB structure has acted on the latest events that took place in Kazakhstan, where mass killings of citizens and civilians have taken place, and they still can't count how many people have died. For us, this organization of SND in the past, Ukraine, has long since come out of this train at the end of Euro-Atlantic partnership and integration. So obviously we've been doing nothing there for a long time, and in part of this protocol, we've long had to get out of it and forget about this organization that's gone down in history, and not be able to resuscitate any form of the Soviet Union. That's why our MP group clearly votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u243	Thank you. Please give me one more minute, Hončarenko Alexeiyyovich. And then we move on to the vote, please invite the national MPs. And Sergey Vladislavovich sobole, after that we vote. I said, "Sobole."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u244	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, this is some bullshit, we have legislation on joint anti-terrorist activities with the Commonwealth of Independent States, with the SND, that means with Putin. So Putin is the number one terrorist in the world. The man who kills in Ukraine, in Syria, in Africa, in Solsbury poisons people with Novičko, kills people on the streets of Berlin, undermines warehouses in the Czech Republic. This is the world’s greatest terrorist. At the same time, whom does the Russian authorities declare terrorists and extremists? The Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people? And today we're all wearing these T-shirts, and look at how many people they put on to play. The anti - corruption fund is its own because it is clear that they are, in addition to being terrorists, also corrupters. So, friends, away from Putin, we're announcing a world-wide anti-terror operation to destroy the world's main terrorist, Putin. So we're all voting together now, because there can't be any other operations with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u245	Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. And then we go to the vote. I'm asking you to take your seats. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u246	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. 8 years as Russia waged war against Ukraine, occupying Crimea and part of Ukrainian Donbas. For 8 years, we permanently go out with one, with another agreement concerning SND, a structure that was created for Russia's initiatives to keep the interests of the country of the former Soviet Union in the field. That's why I have the next offer. Give the commission to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to prepare a decision on Ukraine's exit from SND and the denunciation of all agreements within this structure. And don't go back to voting like today when we get out of an anti-terrorist operation agreement to run in SND territory. What anti-terrorist operations of a country that produces and spreads terrorism around the world and wages war against Ukraine? Therefore, the proposal is clear: let's get out of the SND and put a dot with all of these things that Ukraine doesn't need in contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-01-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the draft Act on the withdrawal of Ukraine from the Protocol on the Approval of the Order of Organization and Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures in the Areas of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States (Registration No. 0064). Ready to vote? Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[14:52:14]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the plenary session of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you.
