ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian People's Party, before continuing the plenary meeting tomorrow, I would like to stress the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the beginning of the plenary session, its run and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Ladies and gentlemen, in the event of air distress, a recess will be announced in the plenary session, and we must move to safe places according to the approved shelter scheme, which is located in the workplace of each of you. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a one-day plenary session, so today we have adopted the Decision "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war" and the proposal of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups we continue our plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, in good parliamentary tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 253rd day of large-scale armed racist aggression against Ukraine. The occupying state is unable to counter the courage and courage of our soldiers in the battlefield, instead of continuing barbaric attacks on Ukrainian cities, terrorizing civilians, bombing energy objects, trying to put Ukraine on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe. The aggressor does not understand the main thing: he can destroy our homes, rob us of light, heat, water, and take life, but he will never be able to speed up the Ukrainian people, break the loving Ukrainian spirit, change our long - standing desire to live in a sovereign European state. Our defence forces free Ukrainian lands from Russian terrorists every day. Sadly, in this bloody war, we experience irreparable losses. So I ask, colleagues, a moment of silence to honor the memory of the heroes and heroes who gave their lives for Ukraine. Everlasting honor and glory to fallen warriors. We also honor the memory of all peaceful citizens who died at the hands of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Ladies and gentlemen, today they are celebrating a professional celebration immediately by two types of forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine: missile and artillery and engineering. Missiles and artillery are the main firepower in the field of battle. The entire Ukrainian people are proud of the accuracy of our live artillery and enemy technology. Let us put our hope in these armies for the speedy release of our homeland. Engineering is a front-world army that removes the enemy's mine-explosion fences, makes pontoon transports, paves the way for the army to move forward. Let us applaud our military and wish them endurance, strength of spirit, success in the field of battle, and complete victory over the enemy. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is also the day of the birth of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Oleg Volodymyrovich Bondarenko, the "Serve of the People" faction. Welcome. And also at Alexander Stanislavovich Pasaczky, 50-year anniversary, "Serve of the People." Welcome. [[Applause]] Honorable colleagues, peaceful heavens and further triumphant work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a few minutes' notice of our stay in Zagreb and the extraordinary success of the Crimea Platform. I would like to report that, following the initiative of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine last week, October 24-25, in Zagreb for the strong support of the Republic of Croatia, Ukraine successfully held the First Parliamentary Summit of the International Crimea Platform, where the international community confirmed its full support and solidarity with the Ukrainian State. On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, allow me to express my deep gratitude to the head of the Croatian Parliament, Gordan Jandrokovic, the Prime Minister of the Republic, Andrej Plenkovic, and all our other Croatian friends and partners for this action. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, dry statistics, but very important. The summit was attended by more than 50 parliamentary delegations, with 140 bilateral meetings held by the Ukrainian delegation, including 22 bilateral meetings. According to the Parliamentary Summit, a joint declaration was adopted that condemned, inter alia, the systematic violation of human rights in the occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the baseless and illegal detention of residents of Crimea, the violent appeal of Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars to the ranks of the Russian army, the ongoing militarization of the Crimea peninsula, and so forth. At a summit on behalf of the Supreme Council, I signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic Parliament on cooperation on improving parliamentary processes and procedures. During our visit to Croatia, a Memorandum of Cooperation was also signed between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Croatian Parliament’s expert service. Therefore, we thank our foreign counterparts for their support and decision-making to the Ukrainian people and the entire world community. I take this opportunity to remind you that last week, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, following the Estonian Parliament, recognized the Russian Federation's authority as a terrorist regime, and before that, Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania recognized Russia as a terrorist state, and the Seima of the Republic of Latvia as a sponsor of terrorism. On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, we express our sincere gratitude to our fellow parliamentarians for their unreserved support and solidarity with the Ukrainian people. I hope that similar decisions will be repeated by other parliaments. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. I'm asking the People's Deputies to take part in the signal vote. I'd like to spend some time with you. [[12:12:11]] For 227 Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Once again, I appeal to all Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, which was decided in Parliament sooner than an hour after the end of our work. A list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board is given to you. So let's move on to the agenda. So, dear colleagues, the first question is regulation 8173. This is a draft decision on the resignation of the Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Chernisov O.M. Dear colleagues, according to part twelve. I apologize, in accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 15, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be dismissed from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. On November 2, 2022, according to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Chernisz Aleksy Mihajlovich submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a request for acceptance of his resignation from the post of Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories. The right materials are provided electronically through the EEA. Dear colleagues, a proposal is made to deal with this issue in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, I suggest you take your seats. Dear colleagues, we're already working. Dear colleagues, take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:14:35]] For 227 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. A member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Vitaly Yuriovich Bezhin is invited to the report. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u2	Good day, dear colleagues, distinguished chairman, distinguished presidency. This morning, the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization reviewed the statement made by the Minister of Community Development and the territories of Alexia Chernisov on resignation. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the resignation of the Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories, Chernišov Aleksija Mihajlovich. Please support and thank the Minister for his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u3	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in favour, two in favor. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, Trust Group. Dear colleagues, please miss Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u4	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, today is an extremely responsible day, and, as always, in the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, and personnel issues are important. They have always been important, and especially relevant, today in wartime conditions, when every decision taken at the level of the central executive authorities is extremely responsible and entails serious consequences in the event of failure to do so. Today we may have many questions about the ministry headed by Mr. Chernishov, but it must be said that in general the tasks that were taken before this body have been accomplished. Our task today is to work together on what has been planned and to assist in the implementation of those national programs, regional programs that are geared towards the development of territories and the development of our state. In general, I would like to thank Mr. Chernobyl for his work and wish him in the future in those positions or in other ways where he sees himself, only success for the benefit of the state to victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u5	Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u7	Hotcharyenko, please, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u8	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are discussing the issue of the minister's resignation. It's a simple question. Where's the minister? Why can't we hear what he's been doing, what's the result, why he's out of office? Guys, we don't have a minister, we don't have government representatives in principle. Is it true that he is in office to lead the Naftogaz of Ukraine? Is it true that Vitrenco went there to make room for Chernishov? Why did Vitrenko go? What are its results? Why do we have free corporate governance and those European principles? We have this flag of the European Union, but it has to be not just a flag, it has to be a clue: what has to be done, how we have to manage state property. And the Naftogaz of Ukraine is question number one. We're going into winter. How are we prepared, what is being done? Vitrenco is changing in our eyes, the minister of the region is changing, but we don't know what's going on in the country. Friends, are we a parliament or not? Do we have self - respect or not? Do we run our country, do we answer to our electorate or not? Let us answer this question together. And it's very important that today is the day of the missile forces and artillery of Ukraine. Friends, let's join together in welcoming our missile forces, our artillerymen, who are today defending our country. These are the gods of war, as they are called. This is a modern war, in which the role of artillery is greatest, let us help them together. Our faction initiated the Eyes of Artie project, very important, let's help with the drones, let's help all the necessary. Today, we are gathering for our artillerymen from the Bogan Brigade. Anyone can join. Friends, please make your dot right now, as artillerymen say - 333. 333 bracelets from.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u9	Please, Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u10	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. It is clear to all that today’s staffing issue is related to what happened yesterday. At last we can take a breath of relief, the whole country is risking under the 8.5-year period of management of the so-called Kobolev and Windscreen Company NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. We're going to have to, whether you want to or don't want to do a full audit of both the Kobolev period and the Vitrenk period, which has already fallen into the work of your power coalition, in order to understand what they can prove to be a national company, what kind of affairs, what manipulations have been created during this time, what is the price of a matter that is detrimental to the security of the state in order for the government to finally mature in order to change the leadership. Now the second one. As far as Mr. Chernishov is concerned. I want to say that I certainly worked with him when he's still a minister, because it's my home ministry, he's seen a lot of positive, I see imperfections, it's also the absence of the Housing Code, it's also the absence of a certain logic in the residential sphere. But in the last six months, when he headed the national winter training headquarters, he proved himself to be an adequate, professional, calm leader. And his task as the future, hopefully NAC leader Naftogazu, is to ensure that Naftogazu's full audit is done, to drive out all that's left of Kobolev and Vitrenko, and to demonstrate, to report where we're going next. That is why we support his resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u11	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I will be very brief. I joined the profile committee today. And for the first time in his life, he must have seen the minister’s normal report on his work. It's a shame that we didn't let you do the report here, it's a great practice, and I wish it always did. Of course, we will vote for our release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Now I'm going to give the floor to Mikolayovich Tishchenka of the Servant of the People on this issue, and then we're going to the vote. Please, Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u14	Thank you. I want to speak to Alexy Mikhailovich. If we have a decision to make and you're still in charge of Naftogaz, I want to warn you that this company is in the most difficult state in its history. The decision of the previous management, which the company's assets as individuals, played with oligarchs, oligarchic groups, and Russian energy businessmen, led to an immediate rise in prices for the supply of carbohydrate to the population. [[Inexplicable]] These problems were fixed before the February month and the beginning of Russia’s military aggression, after which the problem was significantly exacerbated. That's why I'm addressing you and insisting that you have a very big responsibility. Naftogaz is now out of the Ministry's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I am voting for the entire draft Order (Registration No. 8173) on the resignation of the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Alexija Mihajlovich Chernisov. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:28]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alexy Mikhailovich. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next question is the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.10.2022 on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the establishment of a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression. This is 8027-P, the author of the National MP Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovic. We agreed that this is a matter that is considered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but we agreed that we would not discuss but 2 minutes from Nina Petrovna Jujanina and then we would go to the vote. Yes, colleagues? Please, Nina Petrovna, two minutes, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is Parliament that must know the systemic decisions that the country will offer to deal with the consequences of aggression. It seems to me that the established fund voted in its direction would be more responsible for the exercise of control and expenditure by the Ministry of the newly suspended minister. Because when it comes to the direction of using these funds, it's about rebuilding the destroyed public buildings and building new ones, it's about rebuilding and repairing the destroyed infrastructure, it's even building and building new housing for people. Please tell me, if this is an important fund that is to cover the direction that is to have a systemic decision: where will this list of objects be taken, how will the construction and repair of these objects be made, why the Ministry of Finance agrees with the members of the budget committee, and not with the Ministry that sees the greatest needs and can analyse them, namely, the Ministry of Public and Territorial Development, should make such expenditures. So we think it's an analogy with the sociocona, it's opaque, it's a completely new dining room for individual territories or deputies that represent these areas. And also, the source of the filling. By the end of 2022, these are exclusively the funds confiscated by the Russian Federation. Please state the amount. What will be spent on this fund by the end of the year? Obviously, this sum is known. Why is it unknown to us people’s deputies? We cannot support this project, so we will support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt a whole draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.10.2022 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act on the amendment of the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the establishment of a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression (registration No. 8027-P). Dear colleagues, this is a restraining order, you understand, yes, so I'm putting it to a vote. Please vote. [[12:29:36]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. It's a non-adopted decision. Therefore, the law must be prepared for signature. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on four issues without discussion, we vote. The first question is the draft Decision on the implementation by the heads of military administration of the population in the Donetsk area of powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (8144). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:30:26.]] For 303 Decision taken. I would like to make a proposal to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Regulation No. 8144. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:30:51]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you. Colleagues, next order 8162. This is a draft decree for the execution by the head of the Primorski city military administration of the Berdjan district of Zaporez region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:31:28]] For the 320. Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the implementation by the head of the Maritime City Administration of the Berdian Region of Zaporez Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (project No. 8162). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:04]] For 321 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next Order 8163. This is a draft decree on the execution by the Chiefs of Military Administration of the Luhansk People's District of Powers, provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 8163). I'm proposing to include this draft decision in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:39]] For 319 Decision taken. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the Implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administrations of the Luhansk People's Locations in the Luhansk Region of Powers, as provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. Registration number of the Project Regulation 8163. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:33:12]] For 324 Decision taken. And then there's regulation 8171. This is a draft decree for the execution by the Chiefs of Military Administration of Human Settlements in the Herson area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session Project Rule 8171. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:33:53]] For 324 Decision taken. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the Implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administration of the Human Settlements in the Herson area of powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 8171). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:34:26]] For 324 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, we still have two questions about the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. Now, one second, I'm going to open up a lead. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 81, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council to decide on the permanent termination of the powers of the People’s Deputies in the event of the termination of their citizenship. On October 21, 2022, extracts came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the Ukrainian Presidential Order, according to which they were considered to have lost Ukrainian citizenship: Rabbinic Vadim Zinovyovich and Vasilkovsky Igor Igorovich. For this reason, the Supreme Council has registered appropriate draft regulations for registration numbers 8161, 8160. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed to review Decree No. 8161 on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Zinovič Rabinović for a reduced procedure, and the draft Decree 8160 on the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasilkovsky Igorovich, will be discussed without discussion. I would like to put to the vote the question of the consideration of draft Decree 8161 on a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:36:11]] For 276 Decision taken. So, colleagues, let's move on to the draft Decree 8161, the draft Ordinance on the Early Cessation of the National Deputy of Ukraine Rabbinicz W.Z. And I take the floor to announce my conclusion to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliovich Calchenk. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u18	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on October 28, the Regulatory Committee considered an extract from the Presidential Decree of July 18 on the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship, including Rabbinovich Vadim Zinovović. According to article 106, paragraph 26, of the first part of the Constitution, the President decides to cease citizenship and, in turn, in accordance with article 81, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, section 4 of the First Article 4 of the Act on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the authorization of the Ukrainian National Deputy ceases until the end of his citizenship. After considering the documents submitted by the Supreme Council's apparatus, the Committee decided to submit a draft decree to Parliament by members of the National Committee for consideration by members of the Regulatory Committee, recommending that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u19	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. I'd like to ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please. Please give the floor to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" welcomes the depriving of MPs. But this is a very partial decision. We have MPs today who are announced in an international search that almost led to an international scandal, undermining trust with President Biden and the United States of America, are exchanged deputies. Why are they not deprived of their mandates today? There are MPs in this room who probably have dual citizenship. Where is Ukraine’s Security Service, which has to provide full information about such deputies so that they can be removed from their mandates? There is, at last, a decision of the Security and Defence Council regarding banned parties. This is the Party of Sharia, it's the OPCW. Why are the party’s deputies included in marathons and leading a normal political life, creating new political groups and factions? Finally, there was, more loyally, such a traitor from the ruling party of Kovalov, which our noble partisans sent to the Cobzon concert, but he still counts as a member of the Supreme Council, and his voting card is still in the hall. Our faction requires a systematic solution. We've registered a bill depriving all MPs of banned factions. We have registered an alternative bill prohibiting them from creating new groups both in Parliament and in our local councils and from influencing decisions, to be donors to the right voting party. We believe that MPs from banned parties cannot lead committees, and we still have a key committee on freedom of speech headed by a member of the forbidden party. So it's actually a very partial decision, and we're demanding that we put our bills in order of the day, which bring them into order. Lustration and justice are what Ukrainian society demands today. All who called the Russian invader to our land must bear political responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u21	Please, National Deputy Schwacko Anton Alexiyovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u22	Colleagues, please identify yourself and make your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Evtuszek. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote in a minute. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, it's quite fair today in the draft decree that we're depriving national MPs of the Collaborators' status and that fifth column that's been leading all these decades to these terrible things that are happening in our country right now. But I want to remind you, on the basis of the President's decree, we had and saw only a few names. Now I have a logical question: Why is Medvedchuk still considered a Ukrainian national deputy? Kovalov, who is either alive or supposedly a collaborator, or not alive, who holds various positions there. So we ask, in support of this draft decree, as the "Fatherland" faction, to provide a complete list of all those collaborators, representatives of the "fifth column", whom we are to clear with you from the Ukrainian Parliament. You, Mr. Head, call for security by excluding mobile phones, and in fact there are collaborators among us who can run these things directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, take your seats. According to part two, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the entire draft Decision (registration No. 8161) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Zinovič Rabinović. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:12]] For 304 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to move on to the next bill, to the project, as I told you, without discussion, it's 8160. So let's get right to the vote. In accordance with part two, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the entire draft Decree, registration No. 8160, on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasilkovsky Igorovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:01]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next bill, 8027, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the creation of a fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression. I was asked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues, proposing to eliminate inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 19, 2022, of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the Establishment of a Fund for the Elimination of the Effects of Armed Aggression (registration No. 8027). During the drafting of the text of the law, it was found that, as a result of its consideration and adoption in the second reading, it contained several inconsistencies and inaccuracies with regard to the specific provisions of part four of the new article 42 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022, which provided for the direct direction of the funds of the Fund for the Elimination of the Effects of Armed Aggression. The Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on November 2nd, 22nd, the minutes of the Committee's meeting, No. 143, proposed proposals aimed at eliminating inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the adopted law. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, these proposals are submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposals have been made electronically through the EEA and can also be consulted on the Parliament's official website. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'm putting this document to the vote. None. I would like to vote on the proposals initiated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the elimination of disagreements and inconsistencies in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2022 on the Establishment of a Fund for the Elimination of the Effects of Armed Aggression (Registration No. 8027). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:25]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Disagreements have been removed. Let's move on. The next bill is 8035. It's a bill. Wait a second. One second, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u26	Arthur Volodymyrovich, can you give us your list? And yours, Nina Petrovna. Then we'll start with you. You can have at least one of the lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u27	Arthur Volodymyrovich, please list. Dear colleagues, maybe we'll take a walk with that. Five minutes instead of these amendments, we move on to the budget. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u28	I need a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u29	Five minutes. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, a little time-out, a five-minute break for us to cut down, tried to reduce the number of amendments. I'm asking you to stay put, in five minutes, maybe we'll find a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u30	Colleagues, take your seats. Now we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Compromise found. Now we're going to move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Leonidovich. Mr. Gevko! Dear colleagues, please take your seats so we can see the readiness of the hall. We found a compromise. There will be 403 amendments to the bill, and then we can go to the vote for the bill as a whole. So I'm going to ask you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Danilo Alexandrovich! Danilo Alexandrovich! Take your seats. Dear friends, the 403 amendment, and I invite Nina Petrovna Jujanina to the floor, that's her amendment. Then we vote and then we go to the vote for the bill as a whole. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the 403 amendment refers to the return of Parliament to the budgetary process. So what we've decided in March is that the government, in agreement with the Supreme Commander, can cut down expenses on all the supervisors and then set priorities without making any changes to the budget, we're putting a dot on this epic. Because the Supreme Council works and all changes to the budget have to go through Parliament alone. So by going back to article 22 of the Budget Code to paragraph 2, that such a process could only be before the Supreme Council began to work, and that was used by the authorities during military aggression, the active phase, when they probably didn't know whether we were going to work or not. We are now working and supporting the government in all priority areas related to both defence and social and other uses. Please support our work in the hall so she can.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Your Honor. The committee doesn't object, do I understand? Please, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u34	Given the need for rapid regulation, the committee was this one. different situations that require rapid decision-making have been rejected. But we now agree to hand it over to the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I put to the vote 403 the amendment of Nina Petrovna's authorship. You heard Nina Petrovna's reasoning, you heard the committee's position. Therefore, Your Honor, please vote, please vote. [[13:03:39]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there will be no more amendments. No, 300 amendments we've already made, that's all. Dmitri Alexanderovich, what do you have? Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'm not aware that you asked for an amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u36	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. It's just now that only colleagues have found the license of 404 people's deputies of Zabranny, which, along with what was before, gives again the specificity of the transfer of funds for individual expenses to local budgets from one local council to another in the form of inter-budget transfers to the respective local budget. So it's actually again we're giving Kabmin authority, and that's how we're taking authority from the local authorities. Colleagues, well, we've already given Kabmin too much, which can't do anything on its own, has already begun to take him to the locals? If you don't mind, I'd like to see the committee position. And I want to put this amendment on confirmation, please don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u37	Please take the seat of the committee, Vladimir Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u38	The position of the committee, which takes into account the difficult period in which we are now, and the need to make very quick and operational decisions that we sometimes have to make very quickly, very quickly, so this is what the committee considered, and so we insist that it be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 404 amendments to the National Deputy of Oblivion and Shulak It's counted by the committee. The National Deputy of Razumkov requests that such a decision be submitted to the committee for confirmation. The committee insists that such a decision be taken into account. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please vote, Amendment 404. Please vote. [[13:05:52]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the updating and improvement of certain provisions (project registration No. 8035). People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[13:06:37]] For 305 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the government are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Let's move on. Then we have the bill number. I'm sorry, I have a few applications, right? Dear colleagues, there are three breaks with a replacement for the performance, and then we move on to the budget. Therefore, I would ask the National Deputies not to depart. First statement from two factions, I understand. Dear colleagues, please sign the factions next time. This is "European Solidarity" with who? With the Voice. The word is given to Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u40	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Today, when the whole country is united around one goal — victory over a treacherous enemy, the budget, the most difficult budget in our history, must work to win. That is why the responsibility of our team requires that the session room vote on this budget and on Parliament’s subjects. Please tell me how this can happen for the first time in Ukrainian history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, when the room voted an amendment that does not give us 2 billion dollars on the so-called marathon and from the government we get the budget back with these 2 billion dollars on oligarchy TV channels, whose owners are monopolies in other areas and can fund their televoltaics. Today, when our voters of all ages collect money on drones, bayraktars, canteens, armored cars, we will finance a marathon from the budget. Every penny that's been ripped out of the army today is, you know, corruption. And so our demand for this amendment to be reconfirmed is that 2 billion dollars go to the army. And if you really want to finance the marathon, let them pick up the donats. Everyone who wants to watch this is raising money. Likewise, please tell us whether we have the right to take money from the army and to finance what is called the "great theft" at a time when there is a journalistic investigation into fitness trainers, which we now have new oligarchs in an area where no fighting has taken place and what roads will be at higher prices. Perhaps we should not support such corrupt devices and show that we are really behind European integration and that we are fulfilling this commitment to Ukraine’s candidate status in the real fight against corruption.? Please tell us, how in the budget, which today is entirely dependent on our international donors, we can reduce rent to scratch, to the use of nadrama. The government itself admits that they are against it. How did this corrupt amendment come into existence in the 23rd year budget? Please tell me how we allow Natzbank to turn on the machine and print an extra 71 billion to include inflation processes, and this will hit the teacher, the doctor we don't have the ability to raise wages, and, above all, our army. So our faction insists that the corruption amendments that relate to the "great theft" and the roads that relate to the Russian-speaking TV channel "Home" and FREEDOM, you know, to Alexia Hotcharenko on his YouTube, which is not worth a penny's budget, more subscribers so that we can remove these corruption changes today and adopt the budget of our future victory, where everything will go to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, two other groups have turned to "Platform for Life and Peace" and "Resurrection of Ukraine." Who's it gonna be? You, yeah? Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, listen, please. That was never the case, but today we saw it. Parliament has taken its decision; it has voted on the amendments between the first and the second readings. After that, the document was sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Then came what had never been in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament. It was pointed out that Kabmin was allowed to deal with rejected amendments, those that were not supported in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I want to tell you that Kabmin, instead of looking at and taking into account the remedies that were rejected, in the Ukrainian army, in the national security and defence sector, in the pensions, in the social benefits, has chosen only one right to be taken into account: it's a TV set, part of which goes on television for the "nice" Russians. And today it's back in the budget. It's a budget violation, it's a violation of all procedures, but you and I are thus in violation of Parliament's position. Tomorrow they won't talk to you at all, tomorrow there won't be any parliamentary hearings or decision-making, it's just that the Cabinetman will take what he wants. And, believe me, I'm addressing colleagues in the Western districts who will come to their mayors, to my constituents. How are you going to explain that you didn't raise their pensions and salaries, but you put money on a TV that's going to work for Moscow? Today, there are many more reasons and directions for directing the funds of the Ukrainian budget. I strongly urge you not to support the decision to vote in favour of the budget in the second reading, to reject the above-mentioned amendment, and then to vote in favour of the budget. It's an additional 2 billion that can be directed to what the state really needs, not to the "hotels" of individual officials who don't even produce this content, but will buy it. You'd better go to Russia 24 and buy it. It'll be better, cheaper, and precisely it's meant to show for Russia. So I'm asking you very much to think about and make decisions based on the interests of the state, not the individual people who want to make money on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u43	Please, there's another quote from two factions: "Paternal" and "For the Future." The word is given to the national deputy of Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u44	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. A few minutes of your attention to perhaps interesting information. Today, I was moved to speak out of this rostrum by the situation involving Motor Siczia, Mr. Boguslaev, and the criminal conduct of the Ukrainian Security Service today regarding collaborators, traitors, and other enemy guides. In my time, after the revolution, in 2005, I was appointed the first deputy of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the "K" Directorate-General. And we tried to fight corruption a little bit in 2005-2006 and we were interested in economic counter-intelligence. So I was interested in the situation that had arisen with the Ukrainian Security Service's efforts to produce a very large number of rocket scientists from overseas through third countries under cover. They went through China, they formed in Harbin. They traveled through Cyprus, Turkey, and they traveled through Europe. And then eventually they came and ended up in this country called Iran. This was at the end of 1996. Unfortunately, in 2006, the political leadership of the State decided to resign us. We did not learn this information and went to work in the national household, that is, in Parliament. So who today is asking the question, looking at the mopeds that are coming at us, who built them, who was giving them the opportunity to do it to Iran, or who had been building ballistic and winged missiles for this country since the 2000s. It is here that Mr. Prime Minister is present, perhaps not the committee, but he will be interested in this information. So, if you set up a temporary investigation commission, we're, and we're questioning the still living presidents of Ukraine, if we're looking at still living heads of the Security Service of Ukraine of the Dnipropetrov Authority, the DDR, the officers of the active reserve that went with these experts abroad, we might be interested to know that they all worked at the South Bank, the South. Don't mess with the Southern factory because they fight all the time. And which for twenty years, ending almost to this day, helped this country to kill Ukrainians. When you're walking the streets today on some of them, you might know that there were people next to you who were building chessheads that were building winged missiles and ballistics. Not the Russians are dumb and headless, you already know about it, and our Ukrainians are the employees of the South Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now going to consider the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2023 (Registration No. 8000), second reading. In accordance with the Rules and Proposals of the Budget Committee, the Conciliation Board agrees and proposes the next order of consideration. A report by the Finance Minister of Ukraine on the results of the 2023 budget budget of the Supreme Council, up to 10 minutes; a response by the Minister of Finance to the questions of the National Deputies, up to 15 minutes; a report by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget's budgetary considerations to take into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council for the second reading of the draft budget, up to 3 minutes; statements by representatives of the MPs and groups, up to 24 minutes (3 minutes for the presentation); statements by the national deputies, up to 6 minutes (3 minutes for the presentation). Is there no objection to this order of the day? Then let us move on to the question. Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko, is invited to report. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u46	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, you know that we have a rather difficult period right now: the military aggression of the Russian Federation continues, it also affects the preparation of the draft budget, the stage of preparation, but given the self-reliance of the work of the Supreme Council, we are looking at the draft budget for the second reading on time and ahead of schedule, for which I am very grateful. I want to tell you that there have been a number of recent meetings and consultations with international partners on the impact of war and the assessment of Ukraine's financial needs to stabilize the financial system and speed up our victory. In particular, the annual meetings of the World Bank and IMF held a series of consultations, more than 60 meetings with the finance ministers of the G7, G20 countries, with representatives of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Development Bank -- all of these organizations are fully involved in the support process of Ukraine, and we are now building on how this can be done next year. We have also consulted representatives of the International Monetary Fund mission in Vienna, we are now working on a monitoring program that will soon be launched, and as a result of the implementation of this programme, we are looking forward to a wide-ranging funding programme. There have also been a number of conferences, including in Berlin, where our partners have made some calls to support Ukraine. And so that budget deficit that we talked about with you in the first-reading project is a good reason to say that there is a possibility of funding. During each meeting with our partners, we talked about the economic consequences of the war, about Ukraine's need for additional funding. Together, we sought solutions to strengthen international support and also raised questions not only about solving our current problems but also about restoring them. As a result of international meetings and the drafting of the Supreme Council's conclusions and proposals for the 2023 State Budget project, the government prepared a draft state budget for the second reading. In general, when we worked on the draft budget, we counted about 60 percent of the rights and proposals of the people’s deputies. I would like to point out that our macroeconomic projections have changed in recent times, as the Russian Federation’s unprecedented attacks on energy infrastructure and critical infrastructure continue. In this regard, the gross domestic product forecast was adjusted for a more conservative product. Therefore, by 2023, gross domestic product is projected to grow at 3.2 percent of GDP instead of the previous 4.6 percent forecast. The inflation forecast has slightly improved from 30 percent to 28 percent. The forecast of nominal GDP for 2023 was also adjusted to 120 billion dollars, up to 6 trillion 280 billion dollars. More optimistic expectations about financial support from international partners have led to adjustments to the US dollar’s exchange rate. By the end of the year, it's going to be 45.8 dollars per U.S. dollar instead of 50 dollars, as in the previous forecast. The assumption of the average exchange rate will remain unchanged – 42.2 bracelets per U.S. dollar. This had an impact on the budget and so we reviewed the income figures, the revenue of the 2023 budget project is estimated at 1 trillion 330 billion dollars, including the total fund - 1 trillion 173 billion dollars and a special fund - 156 billion dollars. Income is proposed to increase compared to first reading by 50 billion dollars, including by a total fund of 26 billion, by a special fund of 24 billion. The main factors that have affected the outlook, in addition to the macro-indicators, are the consideration of the proposals set out in the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, as well as the series of changes to the Tax Code that were made during the consideration of the draft budget on excise duties and interest rates. The total fund provides an increase: PPF – 15 billion dollars, VAT of imported – 27 billion dollars on an increase in fuel tax rates from 7 to 20 percent; the cost of the National Bank of Ukraine is 35.5 billion dollars. This is planned for a reduction: a tax on the profits of enterprises – by 21 billion dollars due to a decrease in income from enterprises; a wage on natural gas production – by 23 billion dollars due to changes in natural gas taxation on the tax base; VAT on manufactured goods with budgetary compensation – by 6 billion dollars due to changes in macro-indicators and a reduction in consumer spending. The special fund provides: an increase in excise taxes by 7 billion; the costs listed by the National Bank of Ukraine by 16 billion dollars, grants by 442 million dollars under the international support programme, where the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Integration. The second reading of the State Budget project increased the deficit by 17 billion dollars, to 20.6 percent of the gross domestic product. The deficit is planned to be financed by increasing external borrowing. This will increase the amount of government debt. The projected amount of government debt in the national currency equivalent is 6 trillion 423 billion dollars. With regard to budget expenditure. Government budget spending on second reading is increased compared to the first reading of 67 billion dollars. They're going to be 2 trillion 640 billion dollars. Including the total fund — 2 trillion 312 billion dollars, the special fund — 328 billion dollars. The resources of national security and defence in the first reading have not changed, accounting for about 50 percent of the total budget, which is 1 trillion 141 billion dollars or 18.2 percent of gross domestic product. To address socio-economic issues, there is an increase in public budget expenditure, including 39 billion dollars in pensions, to 272 billion dollars. A fund to eliminate the effects of armed aggression for 16 billion dollars, up to 35.5 billion dollars. The direction of the fund’s funds is: building and repairing public buildings, critical infrastructure facilities, housing for internally displaced persons, and persons who have lost their homes as a result of hostilities; purchasing school buses and special transportation for health care and utilities. There has been an increase in education expenditure of 555 million dollars, including for the development of a distance form of education, 150 million dollars, for the provision of external independent valuation, 215 million dollars. For culture, 235 million dollars. Including to ensure the implementation of projects by the Ukrainian Cultural Fund and the Ukrainian Book Institute. To provide mortgage loans to internally displaced persons, 20 million dollars. In addition, there has been a redistribution of expenditure between the authorising officers and individual budget programmes, taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies, including the new budget programme "The State Regional Development Fund" of 2 billion dollars. The cost of the State Regional Development Fund will be focused primarily on the restoration of critical infrastructure in the occupied areas, so it is also an additional resource to win. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your prompt consideration of the draft budget for the following year, for your constructive work in the committees and in the parliament walls, for your cooperation with the government and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The timely adoption of the country's main financial instrument will allow us to continue our dialogue with our international partners on finding sources of funding and supporting Ukraine in the fight against the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u47	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for a question to the reporter. I'm reminding you that we're taking 15 minutes to do this. Please sign in. Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u48	Please give Irina Heratchenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u49	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u50	Mr. Secretary, how can you explain the fact that, against the anti-corruption investigation of journalists into road abuse in the Dnipropetrov region, the government is now adding 7 billion to once again the "great theft"? And the second question about the marathon. Yesterday, during Conciliation, you informed that it was not your initiative, not your reverend prime minister, but your minister of information, when in a war country 2 billion, despite the decision of the Security and Defence Council, we provide Russian-speaking television channels, oligarchik channels, whose owners are definitely monopolists. At a time when, as you know, ordinary Ukrainians gather through the community affairs, through other funds and volunteer organizations on drones, on armored cars, even on winter forms. We turn to the honourable Head of the Supreme Council, our offer to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u51	Unfortunately, I didn't make it. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. As for the first question in road construction. We have to follow the law. If the Supreme Council has determined that we have a road fund to which part of the excise tax is directed, and given that excise taxes are being recovered from the fuel, we are increasing this part that is going to be directed to the road fund, including these costs will be directed towards road construction. So that's the answer to the first question. On the subject of information policy. There is the norm of the Supreme Council's conclusions and proposals, 2.15, which foresees that the government can support Parliament's rejected proposals. This is the position of the government in the information struggle, the information policy, and that is why this issue is resolved in the way budgeted for 2023, the funds provided for the support of television channels. If you think it's different, you can change the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u53	Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich. Please continue to give the floor to the national MP, German Deputy Vasil Ivanovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace". Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u54	Please give the floor to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u55	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor Vassil Ivanovich, for the opportunity to ask a question. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to address you on an indicator such as local budget revenues and inter-budget transfers. We're only interested in numbers, we've had this question today, it's extremely relevant today, given the inability of individual regions to solve the urgent and socio-economic problems that are at stake. So we're wondering how much in the 2023 budget, in nominal figures, will change the income of local budgets, inter-budget transfers, and also at comparable prices. Because we understand that inflation and devaluation processes, they even cancel out the nominal increase in what they are. That's the first question. The second question is, it's also going to apply to more of these revenue exactly in the budget. We're just going to be able to compare the last year and this year to see if this resource is increasing in place or not? And the last question is about the subsidy regions. If you can, give them a number so that we can understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. We have local budgets as one of the key priorities, there is no reason to believe that the resources of local budgets will be reduced. Moreover, by the year 2023, compared to 2022, the resources of local budgets increased by 94.4 billion, primarily due to 60 billion taxes on the income of members of the military. We're also getting bigger. We have a basic grant of 29 billion and an additional grant to compensate for the loss of local budgets in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation. It is also the size of 24 billion dollars. This grant provides for compensation for the loss of local budgets resulting from the aggression of the Russian Federation. So this mechanism will allow us to compensate for these incomes, to provide financing for social infrastructure, to pay off all the necessary costs of these local budgets. That's our priority. The occupied territories that have suffered the most will be directed at these resources. So the local budgets have won enough material resources compared to this year, and I don't think there's any reason to think that they're going to lose anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u58	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u59	Mikola Road, "Slut of the People" faction, 162nd District, Sumstina. Dear Sergey Mihajlovich, first of all, would like to thank the entire ministry for the quality and speedy preparation of the budget. In fact, there are quite a lot of manipulations going on about the fact that all the funds for the army, I think everyone saw in the budget, more than half of the funds going to finance the defence sector. Nevertheless, I would like to raise questions about the reconstruction of the country. We have many areas where many internally displaced persons have been affected, and these regions need reconstruction. In particular, the Ohtyr district that I represent. I'd like to ask you, what accounted for the increase in your second reading, the fund to eliminate the consequences? And is it possible to increase this fund over the next year so that we can restore those regions that have suffered the most.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. In fact, we have a limited resource for recovery. We are talking only about rebuilding the most critical infrastructure objects. In the first place, of course, these are objects that ensure the vitality of the population, and they are still talking about social infrastructure — kindergartens, schools, hospitals. There is a Fund to Eliminate the Consequences of Armed Aggression that has been formed today. The amount of the fund is 35.5 billion dollars, the cost of recalculating the income of the National Bank of Ukraine. There is also an additional grant to local budgets to compensate for their losses – 24 billion dollars and the cost of the reserve fund. In the case that Russian assets, money, are being removed, they can be channelled into this fund, and this fund, of course, could be larger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to the national deputy Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u63	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u64	Thank you, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich, for being able to ask questions. In addition to the part of the previous question of my own, what calculations did you actually use when you were reducing the amount of subsidies to compensate for the payment of utilities? Last year this figure was going to be 41.7 billion dollars this year. For the next year, more specifically, it's 37.8 billion dollars, so the nominal figure has increased. I'll be honest with you, I keep monitoring all the housing bills, they don't go down. And the State Statistics Service, which published the data, on the other hand, showed that housing and utility bills were increasing. So what was your calculation when you changed that number? And second of all, I see you've increased to the second reading of the Pension Fund to 271.8 billion dollars. You may already have figures to increase the minimum wage and minimum pension by the end of 2023. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u65	In terms of the energy subsidy, I want to point out the following. The calculations are based on the existing number of citizens in Ukraine who are consumers of this subsidy, the ability to set tariffs on an unalterable scale throughout the whole heating season, which also affects the need for compensation, and other factors that are foreseen in calculating this amount. There is no reason to believe that this amount will not be sufficient because 41 billion in this year has proved sufficient to compensate all consumers in full. With regard to the Pension Fund. Costs, 40 billion more, are foreseen for the purpose of indexing pensions, and this will allow a substantial increase in pensions, taking into account the level of inflation that is now there. At this point in time, pensioners are the least protected categories of citizens, so the government is looking for ways to protect them, taking into account the consequences that we now have for the economy through the aggression of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Saurasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u67	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u68	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u69	Mr. Secretary, I can firmly say that you have inadvertently completed the draft law for the second reading. We've had a number of suggestions, and I'm sure you've thought about it, too, regarding the exclusion of the state road fund's funds to direct them to the very provision of construction-related works, the reconstruction of international car crossing points with the countries of the European Union. We think it's our second front to invest in money, because without expanding the export possibilities for our economy, we're going to be stuck in our country through that narrow corridor exclusively some of the goods that are being exported today. And I didn't see it in any of the supervisors, and you didn't know whether the Customs Service or the Ministry of Infrastructure was going to do this work, and you didn't make a penny, and you left 75 billion on the road and you didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. You know, sometimes in order to open a pass, it takes money, but our government, working even under such difficult conditions, has the ability to do so even with a limited resource. I would like to point out that this year new border crossing points are being opened with our neighbouring countries. There is also support for our partners, our neighbouring countries, who are also interested in expanding our border-crossing infrastructure, so this year a number of new border crossing points will be opened without even additional money for this direction. So directioning, of course, funds in this direction is a priority and, of course, we will be working in the following year to invent the necessary resources to expand the Western border itself and its ability to move citizens of Ukraine and the necessary export-import goods. It's a priority, and we're actively working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, one more question. Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". I think this is going to be the final question about the budget. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Minister, we are well aware that the budget for the next year is being prepared in unforgivable conditions of real war, and we sincerely believe that the budget for 2023 will be the budget for the victory of Ukraine. I have two questions for you. First of all, the reconstruction fund mentioned today. Is that the sum of more than 35 billion the cost of compensating the citizens of the lost property, and is it the following year when real compensation begins? And the second question is the inflation index, which is almost 30 percent. When are we still going to index pensions and wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. We have the possibility, it's pretty limited in the recovery part. We're not talking about major post-war reconstruction right now, we're just talking about restoring the most pressing issues of critical infrastructure in order for the country to actually survive in these difficult conditions. But of course, part of the issue of compensation for lost housing can be settled at the expense of the liquidation fund. And that's the direction. But, of course, this amount of funds that is currently projected is not enough, and that is why we are now actively working with our international partners already in the framework of a major reconstruction of the country to find these funds, including on the basis of the assets arrested by the Russian Federation. For example, 30 percent of the potential inflation this year and wage and pension indexes. We can only provide indexation of the most vulnerable categories that are currently retired. Therefore, funds are provided for pensioners. Other categories of citizens are going to be defined in part of our capabilities, because this is a fairly substantial budget expenditure, and it can have an additional impact on our ability to continue our military campaign and to ensure macroeconomic stability, because every bracelet that works for consumption is additionally triggering inflation. These questions need to be carefully considered. Once we find that opportunity in the budget, we'll provide indexation and other budget workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u74	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. We have completed our questions to the Minister of Finance, please take your place. The report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Yuri Yuriovich Aristov. Please, Yuri Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u75	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs and invited, today's historic moment -- the Supreme Council for the first time in years of independence is considering the State Budget Bill on the second reading in early November. I mean, a lot sooner than usual. This indicates that everyone who participates in the budget process has recognized his personal responsibility to the Ukrainians, recognized his responsibility to the state fighting for its freedom and independence, realized that the sooner the main financial instrument is approved for the following year, the easier it will be to ensure its implementation. I want to thank the Ministry of Finance for the rapid and fruitful negotiations with representatives of the International Monetary Fund. The results that have been achieved have already been reflected in the second reading of the draft budget. The government has found an opportunity to increase the cost of addressing important socio-economic issues, such as pension payments, credits for internally displaced persons, the urgent need for education. The priorities of the budget for the following year are clear and clear, as never before, the security and protection and social protection of the population. The Committee on Budgetary Questions analysed the state of government's accounting for the Supreme Council's budgetary conclusions. Eleven out of the 12 proposals in part one of the Budget conclusions are included, and another is included in the second edition. As for part two of the Budget conclusions, of the 72 assignments, almost half of them are counted. Thus, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 8,000 on second reading and, in general, as a law taking into account the Committee’s proposals agreed upon with the Ministry of Finance. The most important thing now is to ensure the financial security of the country, which is fighting the Russian occupation, to protect those who are most in need of protection. That's why we work for the victory and the glory of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u76	Heroim Slava! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to sign up for the performances by the MPs and the groups, three minutes for the performance. Factions and groups please log in. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, we are aware that this is the most difficult budget in the history of Ukrainian independence. We understand that half of the state's spending in this budget will go to the country's defence sector under the conditions of the Russian Federation's untraceable military aggression. So we can see real numbers in this budget, such as the Fund to Eliminate the Consequences of Armed Aggression, with the support of our international partners, of course, to provide full social benefits to our fellow countrymen. We realize that a war-forced state can't dramatically increase the minimum social standards, but let's keep it within a certain framework. We stress the inadmissibility of making risky reforms with such sensitive issues as subsidies, which have already occurred in this room. They are convinced that in order to ensure the protection of low-income citizens and to guarantee the proper passage of the heating season in the state budget, it must be clear, as in the past years, one line of government funding for housing and utilities subsidies is recorded. In particular, during the war, it seems unclear to us that there is absolutely no justification for making changes to the formula for the allocation of inter-budget transfers. In some cases, when individual local budgets, which have been given insufficient support from the budget for protected articles in recent years, are now in debt to the government and should return a revolving grant to the State. We draw attention to the catastrophic reduction in funding for the education sector for the next year for more than 20 billion dollars. What are we fighting this war for, my friends? We understand that now difficult times and in a large temporarily occupied territory will not be able to set up a normal educational process, almost, but this does not give us any other clue as to why education subsidies are reduced to such a large amount. And the New Ukrainian School program, and the Superb Ukrainian School, and the new textbooks for the students, they're either folded up or they're over-exploited. We risk finally losing the minds of our children who have gone to safe territory both in Ukraine and abroad, but still want to learn remotely. The 38 billion-dollar deficit for the next year, which is echoing today from the mouth of government officials, is a large number that Ukraine can cover, without multiplying the bracelet and increasing inflation, but only through negotiations with our international partners, support from their side and grants. And we understand that we are in a difficult situation of the budgetary process, we are going nowhere, we have to show ourselves and the world that we are supporting our fellow citizens properly. So our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this budget in the second reading, and we hope that the next economic year we will endure and go through with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Eutuszek, the "Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Mikhail Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u80	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u81	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable ministers! In fact, the budget of 2023 is written in uncomplicated political, economic and military conditions, it is indeed the first budget of the warring state. And I would like to stress that this is the budget for the victory of the Ukrainian people in the war against the racists. But you have to understand that almost half the budget is the defence sector. And we need to consider not only the allocation of funds but also the control over the use of each coin, and this is the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Indeed, when we talk about the social sphere, 400 billion is actually a big sum. But at this cost is the share of more than 10 million Ukrainian pensioners, a few million more families that need the support of the state. And when we talk about the cost of rebuilding the state, we want to want the government to make sure that the citizens of Ukraine who lost their homes in the next few months, I emphasize, have begun to receive compensation. Because today they're just waiting and registering in the "Dia" system. The budget for next year is downgrading education, and the warring state should remember that financing the education sector is also a war, a war for Ukraine's future elite, which will rebuild the post-war state. Of course, there is a problem with the level of inflation. And the minimum wage that is going to remain at 6,000, 700 dollars next year, as is today, is not the kind of money that can provide a working person with everything he needs. The purchasing power will be reduced, and that's also the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear Mr. Golovo, please give the floor to Alexander Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u84	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, we have twice had the opportunity to discuss this draft budget. I'm not going to stop at the budget figures themselves, I'm going to highlight the figures that were adjusted, and these are the basic macroeconomic indicators, they were something there. worse forecast, better. So for GDP, the estimate for the next year was down to 3.2 percent. This is a partial recovery, we have a total of two years minus 34 percent of the drop. According to the inflation index. Why important, we insisted on this option, and we should thank the government, they took these points into account by indexation, they would look at the minimum subsistence minimum and the minimum pension. Inflation. Although planned for 28 years, a cumulative price index of 65.5 percent in two years was planned. These are high figures and minimum fixed incomes need to be indexed. Next. The devaluation that is planned. Even though this plank was reduced to 45.8 dollars per dollar, we still have a devaluation of 67.8 percent in two years. These are the numbers that need what we talked about, in two years, the minimum wage goes up by 3.1 percent, the minimum wage goes up by 8.2 percent. These are incomparable figures with inflation and devaluation rates, so that the government has additionally foreseen the funds to raise the minimum pension, these are important figures and they deserve attention. What I want to pay attention to is already negative. There is an increase in the state’s debt and sovereign debt. In general, if you take the date that last published today, the holding will increase by 79 percent, almost double. These are high figures. Well, it's a loan. 1.7 trillion dollars is high figures that will still have to be paid and spent each year to service the state and state-guaranteed debt. In particular, I'm sure we'll be making changes for the next year. I would like to point out that there is a need to support the real sector of the economy, industrial production according to the estimates of individual institutions, which will fall by 42.6 percent this year. Metallurgy, we already have a fall in 9 months minus 66 percent and 67 percent in individual activities. In the chemical industry, 49 percent of the businesses that worked at the beginning of the year remained, to be precise. In order to stimulate employment within the country, therefore, it is primarily necessary to support the real sector of the economy, which will make the largest contribution to the income part of the budget through taxes and assemblies. Well, the last thing I want to pay attention to is that we're experiencing a stagflation debt crisis. Overcoming inflation is an extremely important moment in order to ensure that all the revenues we make in the draft budget do not go to waste. I did not vote in favour of any of the three budgets, but for the military budget, of course, we will support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u86	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Mikoli Vitaliovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u87	Maxim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u88	Maxim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u90	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I did hope that by accepting such an important project, we would be honest with each other and call things our names, for example, that we - the opposition was pushed away from the budgetary process, is a fact. We have made very many constructive proposals, if I had not gone to the budget committee, none of them would have been entrusted to the government. But the government did not process any of the proposals that we initiated. That's a big negative, that means you want to take responsibility for yourself. And we want to wash this plow together during the war. And that's why when they say it's the budget of a military country or a country that's in war, notice, 1 trillion 141 billion is the costs, all the costs that will come into the state budget general fund next year. But this is less than what was spent this year. And when you say there's someone complaining that there's not enough money in the army, they're not enough. You see how many volunteers, how many charities they keep taking to the front, and the need is growing and rising. And all defenses are getting more expensive and more expensive. Billions of personal resources have already been spent both by business and by philanthropists — by individuals. So to say that you didn't have to go through all the expenses, I called them here, for 4 billion, and to focus on defense programs, that's exactly what we could do. Now for the second part. And now all the rest of the expenses are at the expense of our sponsors, the partner countries, who are going to help us. Think about it, half the budget, and that's all the social costs, all the budget costs, at their expense. So I have a question: how could you create funds for hundreds of billions, handing them out to other different supervisors, and why not a fund with the representation of donor countries? Are you sure donor countries will give you the opportunity to spend without their participation? Why is there an article in the Ministry of Social Policy, such as the social protection of citizens in difficult living conditions, 86 billion? Please tell us where our system program is, how are we going to protect people who are truly internally displaced, and what are we going to do to rebuild housing? All you've been talking about here is the Recovery Fund, again, because it's dividing by direction, not by the order we've accepted with you. I don't know what the registers are for if they don't work. We're all for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u92	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Michael Laby.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u94	Michael Laba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the 2023 State Budget project is unforgivable. Our country will have to fight hard to defend its independence. First of all, I would also like to thank all the communities, the heads of the communities that today, at this difficult time, hold our Ukrainian position, which are working with budgets to support the defence, too, to provide for the needs of our internally displaced persons. Today you have a lot of challenges, and you have a lot of tasks in the defence complex and in the next implementations, including programs to eliminate the impact of the bombings of our country. Of course, the country needs funds to rebuild damaged infrastructure as a result of war. Regrettably, it is necessary to resolve social, economic issues under such essential conditions. Already today, there has been talk of relocating enterprises, supporting manufacturing. Today we need to concentrate and offer business the best possible conditions in any place in our country where they are comfortable and comfortable to work, to support our economy. The Ministry of Finance needs to do titanium work so that we can avoid the risks that will lead to the lack of funds to finance the government budget deficit. So I hope that Minfin's leaders and employees will do well to carry out this challenging task that we have set before us. Of course, we should borrow and thank our international partners for their support. Our joint work of the Cabinet of Ministers, the government, the President, the Supreme Council is aimed at winning our country. It's gonna be Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u96	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, the word is given to a national MP. To the national deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. I understand you're instead of Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna? Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u97	This is probably the most complex budget we accept in record terms, and this is a positive record, and this is a huge acquisition of our Parliament, which we have twice accepted in November before the year the budget is adopted. Sadly, there were other examples in Ukraine’s history, including when the budget was adopted in April and several times in January. Any budget can be very easily criticized. This budget is not an exception. Moreover, both before the first reading and, more than that, before the second one, there were things in this budget that can be objectively embarrassing. Now we're talking about financing the parties and the marathon and the development fund that. Not the development, but the elimination of the consequences, which agrees with the Committee on Budgets. And I really don't want to see that. But the only number that tells me personally whether to vote, not to vote, not to vote, not to support, not to support this budget is the deficit figure. We're short 38 billion dollars in this budget. It's also, unfortunately, a record, unlike the previous record, it's negative. We're only going to make a trillion 300 billion in 2023 because of our business. Almost everything, and probably more, unfortunately, we're going to spend on war. So for a deficit of 38 billion, our international partners will be financing pensions, wages, something to rebuild, social support. And that's only why we're doing the only right thing that we're voting on today's budget two months in advance so that our government can get that money involved. As he said at first, any budget is easy to criticize, and this one, believe me, is definitely for what. But this must be done in peacetime. And I hope that when it comes and that it will come next year, and only with our victory, we will. And now this is the budget for war. And the only request to the Minister of Finance, who is not listening to something right now, to the Prime Minister, please make sure that those who vote in favour of this budget are not ashamed of us. And please do your best to find the money to cover the deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u98	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ms. Valery Sergiyovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine.""..
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, this State Budget is in no way comparable to the previous ones. Total defense and aggression priorities make it necessary to seek compromises in every direction. At the same time, we see clear progress between that document that went to Parliament in mid-September and today's edition. A great deal of work has been done by the profile committee, the MP factions, the groups, the government team to make the best use of all available resources for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. First, this document allows you to save all social costs and support people during this difficult period. Special attention to the pensions of millions of Ukrainian pensioners, citizens to which we will send an additional nearly 39 billion dollars compared to the September proposal with the plus. Secondly, between the first and the second readings of various articles, we were able to increase in total almost half the cost of rebuilding the affected regions, which is an additional 20 billion, and we're also going to make a positive contribution to rebuilding our state. Thirdly, it is worth noting that microeconomic projections are viewed and refined to be more realistic. And, thank God, we're going to change the forecast for the rate that was previously planned for 50 dollars to $1, up to 45.8 at the end of the next period, with an average of 42.2 dollars per dollar. We've all become witnesses, as the previous projections have actually caused an increase in speculation in the cash market by trying to move the bracelet. But thanks to Nazbank’s timely response, it failed. Despite all the challenges, the proposed document is balanced, regardless of the significant deficit of $38 billion. Ukraine has arrangements for monthly support of $3 billion from the European Union and the United States, and a new IMF programme awaits us. The Ukrainian Liberation Group supports the proposed budget for the following year. And we call on the Supreme Council to support this project and to compromise the warring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u100	Please, National Deputy Bakunetz Pavel Andriyovich, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, while Paul Andriyovich is on his way, six minutes later, the national deputies, and then we go to the budget vote on the second reading, and then on to the whole. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, ministers, honourable national deputies, people of Ukraine! Of course, when you ask yourself if you would like to see such a budget here in the hall, you are probably not in Kabmin and Ukraine. Perhaps everyone would like to see the budget of a successful country where schools, gardens, hospitals, cultures, and so forth are built. But there is a big "but," we have a neighbor -- a terrorist country, a country that has solved a great war, and so today, despite this huge challenge, as the profile minister himself points out, we have a moderately optimistic budget for our country's movement forward, ahead of victory in the next 2023. Of course, it is necessary to give due priority to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who, with their courage, give us the courage to be here with you in the hall, and then after the adoption of this state budget, to all the local governments in the communities to build their budgets, that is, their plans for the development of communities, and then to the whole country, even though there is war, but the Armed Forces are covering us with their dome, their omofora, and they are covering us. We have to give due to every Ukrainian who hasn't left, but stays here, works, does some business, pays taxes. And that's exactly what half of the budget will be provided for our army next year. And the other half that we owe to international partners, because these are loans, these are mostly grants that are non-refundable, they're going to be directed at different areas of our country's life. And we should certainly mention these communities of our own. Because there's a big, big sign of exclamation, it's about that we're all working for the future, for the future, for the development, for the sake of our children, for the sake of education. And actually, once again, I would like to stress, Mr. Financial Minister, that there is still a lack of educational subsidies for our communities. And then they're going to add their money to make it possible for teachers to get their salary next year, which is one of the negatives of this budget. Another negative is that the calculation of the reverse grant does not, however, include internally displaced persons in our communities. This is more than 100,000 for the city of Lviv, which also spends the local budget and also gives it to the state to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a final chord, six minutes for the national MPs, and then we go to the budget vote. People's deputies please sign up for the speech, and then we vote in favour of the budget. The word is given to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u104	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to listen because in this room, the budget was read in detail, perhaps, by a percentage of the 20 national deputies. It's not a mistake, but the things I'm going to talk about right now, I'd like to listen to everyone. Is this the budget of a warring country? At first glance, yes, but not really. Because if you take a close look at the numbers that stand out, like the Ministry of Defense and the security and defence sectors, they're even smaller than the fact this year. Is that right? I don't think so. The second question. Is this budget a budget that today protects our citizens who suffer, for example, from the energy attacks of the aggressor country? No, it's not. Because a lot of the money that needs to be invested today to rebuild the energy infrastructure for 2023, which has to be built on windows, roofs, doors and walls of buildings, goes where? And here I can say, guess, please, for once, they're on their way. If it was a time of peace, there are no questions, because roads are important, but, excuse me, there is a war going on now, on every penny of national money. And today I'm going to make extra money, and I can prove it to anyone here, just not within 3 minutes, but within much more time, there's going to be extra money on the road. We're being transferred here from the government by people who seem to be on bridges. But the bridges need not be more than 9-10 billion for 2023, I'm willing to base that figure. We're told that this is for the winter season, 4 billion dollars is needed, even considering the lower prices of salt and fuel for cars that are going to clean roads. We're told about repairing roads, 12 to 15 billion is as much as possible, which is what is needed today for the pit repair. One who is constantly driving along the front lines sees that most of the damage to the road is a pit repair. Yeah, it's for a couple of years, but today we're going to have to set this money aside for security and defense. And finally. Nina Petrovna Jujanina found and showed you during the first reading of the budget that more than 4 billion dollars are allocated to almost pure corruption. The money that is now being allocated to the marathon and on, I'm sorry, the provision of these channels that Parliament has knocked down is actually a spit in the face of every deputy in this room. So I propose not to support it in the second reading, but to support it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, please continue. Instead of the Arsenius Road Gun, please. Dear colleagues, before Mr. Arsenius begins, we will then proceed to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u107	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! It's very embarrassing to hear in this room, from this rostrum, when our individual colleagues in war are called upon not to vote for the budget. In all the years of independence, there was no ideal budget adopted by the Supreme Council. But we're a war country today, a lot of challenges. Thanks to the Armed Forces of Ukraine today, we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, can accept the 2023 budget in an independent Ukraine, a sovereign state. Therefore, there should be no discussion of how much is spent in this budget on the Armed Forces of Ukraine. As much as it takes to win, we'll spend. It's not an accident, it's a victory budget. Yes, indeed, half the budget on the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And maybe there are some colleagues here complaining that it's underfunded, that it's underfunded. Friends, what difference does it make today that we're underfunded if we can lose our independence? That is why this is not discussed. On the other hand, there is a criticism of this budget -- the cost of recovery. This is not the case today with those who have lost their homes and have nowhere to talk, or children who have lost their school and have nowhere to learn when they are being reinstated, today or in a year or two. As a nation and we as authorities have made commitments, we must rebuild everything that has been destroyed by the enemy and build it better. And we're going to do it, and that's what we're going to do today. So, of course, I am grateful to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Committee on Budget Affairs and all of you, colleagues, for our constructive attitude to the budget this year, we are considering it earlier, and it is indeed a balanced budget. We need to understand that every second bracelet in our budget today is defective. We need to understand that the economic cycle is broken. We need to understand today that without the support and assistance of international partners, we would not have drawn up a budget this year or a budget next year. Therefore, the balanced governmental position of each of you today should prevail over populism or ambitions. So, dear fellows, I urge you to support the State Budget for 2023 -- the budget of our victory. And we will surely win. Our Armed Forces are borrowing all the territories, killing the enemy, and we will certainly rebuild every destroyed object and, I am sure, do even better. And those commitments of the state, which are now related to social benefits, pensions, and all the expenses that the State must provide, are in the budget and will be paid. Thank you. I call for backup. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we will conclude our second reading of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2023. I'm asking you very much, I've always said that budget voting is a very important vote of an MP per year, and it becomes even more important during the war period. So I'm asking all the national MPs to take their seats so we don't see any running around here, no catching up, and so on. And before I go to decision-making, I just want to point out that this decision is going to need a few votes. The first option is that when we support the second reading, the general vote is immediately put to the vote. If the second reading is not supported, in accordance with article 158, part nine, of the Rules, we will consider and vote on the articles, not the amendments that have been discussed today, but the articles that are urged to be considered and voted on by national deputies. So, given all the above, I'm still asking the people's deputies to take their seats, and let's make sure that our country has a budget for the state of war, but I'm sure it will turn into a budget for our common victory. I'm asking you to take all your seats. Let's go to the state budget vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats. In accordance with article 158 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting for the second reading, taking into account the Committee's conclusion on budgetary matters, on the draft Ukrainian Law on the State budget for 2023 (project registration number 8000). Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the national deputies to vote. [[14:23:17]] For 294 Decision taken. [[Applause]] It's not over yet, colleagues. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 4, of the first part of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 158 of the Supreme Council Rules puts to the vote for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's conclusion on budgetary matters, the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 (registration No. 8000). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:24:01]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2023 was adopted. Congratulations, colleagues. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, after the budget, please, after the budget, we have to vote on the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's right. No, we'll vote, then out of the procedure. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the funds of the Supreme Council are approved by the Supreme Council at the time of the adoption of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the following year. You've been given a cost-of-funding project. We agreed not to discuss it, but I'll give Calchenka 30 seconds, because he has to read the resolution part, and then we vote. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u109	The honourable Presidium, the honourable national deputies, the committee at its meeting considered the cost of the fund, and members of the committee put forward a draft of the relevant Order 8129. At the same time, according to the commission of the Committee, yesterday the Committee on Budget Affairs approved a decision on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2023, prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers for the second reading that had just been adopted. And the conclusion of this draft decision. It is recommended to increase the level of expenditure by the general budget fund of the State budget for the budget programme "Indicating the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine through television and radio broadcasting and financial support for the publication of the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" by 120 million dollars. Therefore, we ask for support to the draft Resolution on the Costs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2023 (Registration No. 8129), taking into account the increase in Parliament's spending on television and radio broadcasting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 8129) on the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2023. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:26:42]] For 313 Decision taken. Please, there. From what? I'm out of procedure. But only by procedure, Irina Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, it is very important for all Ukrainians to know how the budget was received. It's very important to understand the position of all the factions that were today saying "for," "against," which amendments we've required to take into account. So we ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to put to a vote the following: that the whole block that deals with the budgetary process that began with the performances of the replacement factions, i.e. the break with the replacement for the performance, and the whole block of the discussion of the budget, and in the slot of the tele-telephone, in the network of the Council, be shown in the so-called general marathon. More than that, the Council generously contributed two billion dollars to the marathon rather than to the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I think Ukrainians should know about this too. And please support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u112	I'm betting on the vote on Irina Volodymyrna's proposal. The same? Let's vote on that. Come on, Buzansky Maxim Arkadyovich. If there's a few, let's put a few right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I urge you not to support Mrs. Irina's proposal, because whoever doesn't vote for the budget doesn't tell on television how he didn't vote for the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, please, I'm making a proposal. I'm putting Irina Volodymyrna's proposal to the vote. What comment? There's a lot of Irene here. Dear colleagues, come on. Dear colleagues, I'm offering Irina Volodymyrna. Please vote. [[14:28:44]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next Bill 6364, no discussion. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Resisting the spread of Human Immunodeficiency (HIV) Diseases and the Legal and Social Protection of People Living With HlVs on the application of modern approaches to prevention, testing and treatment of HIV infection in accordance with WHO guidelines. I bet we agreed not to discuss it, so I immediately propose to adopt the draft Law 6364 as a basis for drafting the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:29:46]] For 315 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6364. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:30:11]] For 271 Decision taken. Next Bill 8081, we also agreed without discussion. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 10, paragraph 18, with a prim badge. The Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families concerning the granting of military service leave during the war. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:30:46.]] For 328 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a proposal to adopt Law 8081 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:31:09]] For 330. Decision taken. And I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8081. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:31:35]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill was also agreed without discussion – this is a draft law amending Chapter 6 of the Act on Ukrainian Cultural Fund on the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund during the period of the state of war (the registration number of Bill 8023). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:32:14]] For 319 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter 6 of the Act on Ukrainian Cultural Fund on the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund for the duration of the state of war (Registration No. 8023). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:32:47]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, something doesn't work in Helen Kostovny, she's got everything. Please come over from the tech department and take a look. Let's move on. I propose to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law No. 8023. People's deputies, please vote. Please run. [[14:33:40]] For 314 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next bill 5336. This is a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal liability for torture. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:34:15]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have offered no discussion, but "European Solidarity" wants to speak. Are there other factions that want to speak? If not, two minutes of European Solidarity, and then we vote. Please don't go away. It's a very important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I think we are all together, and the law enforcement agencies united by the following: the responsibility of each of the invaders, as well as the collaborators involved in the torture of the Ukrainians, must be complete. We know the shocking facts after the depopulation of the Ukrainian territories, that there were real cataclysms working there. And it is obvious that anyone involved in such a crime must be held accountable in both Ukrainian and international courts. And we'll support that. At the same time, the society that is undergoing such a catharsis today expects political power of high responsibility. You just voted so that taxpayers don't know how you're spending their taxes, so that our international donors, who now sponsor the Ukrainian budget by 50 percent, don't know where their money goes, and the voters have no right to see today's sessional day on the channel, on that marathon on the "Council" channel. You know, they all have European flags here. We are all talking about the seven points that we have been accepted as a prerequisite for obtaining EU candidate status. And fighting corruption is a key requirement. Please tell me how can you vote so that voters do not know how a key document is discussed and accepted – the budget? It's not your money, it's our voters' money, it's our voters' money. What right do you have to do everything to ensure that they do not know what the cost will be? When investigating a road fund, what right do you make it illegal for any voter to listen to it today? I call on the Direct Channel, the 5 Channel, the Espresso Channel, all the good will channels, to take a recording of this video, and to show how the budget was discussed, as well as one gentleman's disgraceful replica here and how the "servants" voted in order for the electorate not to know what's going on here. You don't want to go to the European Union, you want to live in Russia or Belarus. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, look, if it goes like this, we should have discussed this, and then another, now there will be other factions who want to speak. So let's do it anyway, because "European solidarity" is already on the table, let's write down the factions that want to speak, and we're not going to follow the things we talked about on the Conciliation Council. Then I don't understand the meaning of the consensus advice, you know? Please write down the rest of the factions, because this is some kind of contractor that is not understood. Please. Sign up for the performances, the factions, three more first ladies to perform. "European Solidarity" has already appeared. Please, Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, "Serve of the People." That's what I understand. He's handing it to Bujansky, isn't he? Please, Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, Mrs. Irina said that our voters, our citizens, as if they didn't know where their taxes were going, I'll tell Mrs. Irina what they know. They all know that all our taxes, all without exception, go to war, to war against the Russian Federation, to fight against the aggressor, to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And everything else, the rest of it, I didn't interrupt you, I'm sorry, and everything else is the help of our partners, and it's also going to war, to social life, to rebuild our country, destroyed by an aggressor. Everyone was talking about how the budget is being distributed this year. I'm sorry, but when there's a war going on, I don't even know what to talk about. All for the front, all for the win! And if you didn't have enough patriotism to press the "Z" button to give money to our Armed Forces during the war, please don't say anything about television in connection with the budget. For this bill, please support everyone with the green "Z" button.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u118	The word is given to the national deputy of Slavic Antonini Kerimovni, the deputy group "Delivery of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u119	To Artem Dmitruk, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u120	Guys, there's a bill vote that's very important right now. 5336. Butcha, Irpine, Izum -- these words are now associated with the atrocities and tortures committed by Russian military personnel throughout the world to our citizens. In fact, there are hundreds, if not thousands. As of today, the Criminal Code of Ukraine does not take into account the present reality and does not provide for a separate increased responsibility for torture committed by the Russians, we need to correct this flaw. Russian military personnel are representatives of the state in this foreign case. With the changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Code, we want to record this reality and provide for a separate qualification with increased penalties for Russian soldiers and officers. Therefore, we prescribe that torture, which the State, including the foreign one, has done to our people, will involve the deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years. This is the highest penalty provided for in article 127 of the Criminal Code of "Torture". And we're also in the position that this crime will not last long. That is, every Russian soldier who has tortured in Ukraine will be under our care for the rest of his life. Of course, if he somehow survives under the blows of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The adoption of this bill is our public duty to the Ukrainians who are involved in this war. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" supports the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, closing address, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. I'll ask the MPs to take their seats, then we'll go to the vote. Just in case Nestor Ivanovich goes, I'll remind you that we're considering a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal liability for torture. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u122	Thank you, Mr. Head. Continued with such a painful budget theme. For the first time in my life, I voted in favour of the budget. And to be honest, the one who didn't vote for the funding of the Ukrainian Armed Forces today is a traitor. And let him tell me something after that! And with regard to this law, we have to adopt it. We must accept it today, and it must act both during the war and after the war. Because the constitutional rights of our citizens are sacred, and no one has the right to deny the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Code on Criminal Liability for Torture (registration number 5336). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:17]] For 304 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 5336. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:40]] For 253 Decision taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, just from the procedure. No procedure, I'll stop. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u124	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, I am asking the Head of the Supreme Council to put to the vote, as we have talked about on Conciliation, I have talked about this, the decision to broadcast the debate on this torture bill that we have just adopted on the broadcast of the "Rada" television channel in the national telephony. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u125	Have we talked about this bill? With regard to this bill, you were the only one to speak, Arthur Volodymyrovich. But, well, let me bet. We all did, but we didn't make a deal. Okay. It's an offer, I'm putting it. I'm offering Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please, please identify yourself. Vote. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Once again, Arthur Volodymyrovich is proposing that the draft bill be discussed on the Rada Channel. Please, Your Honor, please identify yourself. Vote. A marathon. Yes, marathon, I'm sorry. [[14:45:13]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Next, please, 7735: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise to improve the administrative and administrative provision of court-expert activities. We agreed to the Conciliation Council, no one would make any amendments, so we immediately vote. I propose, my fellow Members, to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise on the Improvement of Administrative and Judicial Provision (registration No. 7735). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:12]] For 274 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill, 5159, is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the imposition of responsibility for breaching the order of strategic environmental assessment. We agreed, four amendments from Fatherland, and we vote in favour of the bill. Please, who's going to be from Homeland? Call the number right away. It won't. All of it. Let's move on to the vote now. Thank you. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the imposition of responsibility for breach of the order of implementation of the strategic environmental assessment (project registration number 5159). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:47:15]] For 268. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 4568, is a draft of the Law on Materials and Objects that Contact Food. We agreed there'd be six amendments from Fatherland. Can we too? We take it down, we vote now. Prepare to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I heard that, I heard that. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Materials and Objects that Contact Foods (project registration number 4568). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:48:10]] For 306 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next, Bill 8045: Draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts on the privatization of state and municipal property under tax and on the administration of the payment of tax debt. Maybe we'll go the same way? No one will. We're voting, aren't we? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts concerning the privatization of state and municipal property in tax pay and ensuring the administration of the payment of tax debt (registration number of Bill 8045). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:49:12]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. My colleagues, congratulations! Next bill 7655: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Payment of Advance Taxes on Income Taxes for Structural Units that Trade Currency in Cash. We agreed, two amendments to "European Solidarity" and we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Arthur Volodymyrovich, which one of you? And the number of the amendment, and then the justification. I'm asking Danil Alexandrovich to take a seat. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, which one of you?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u126	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u127	No, my friends. We can't wait. Dear colleagues, then please, if there are no those who will be put to the vote, I will put the law to the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Payment of Advance Taxes on the Income of Enterprises for Structural Units that Trade in Monetary Value in Cash. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:39]] For 249 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill is 4558. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve government regulation in the field of pesticides and agrochemicals. We agreed on three amendments from Fatherland. You won't? And there'll be an adjustment to Reasonable, 91st. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov. 91 amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u128	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. One of these changes and four revisions will just have to be put to the vote later.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u129	Let's start with those who vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u130	I told the Conciliator that there would be an adjustment and there would be four more revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u131	Are you going to put them on confirmation, or are you going to take them into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u132	All for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u133	Ah, all for confirmation. Because I realized that everyone was on the lookout. All right, then, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u134	If possible, give time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u135	Give me an hour, please. 91 revisions. Please don't go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u136	91 revisions, she predicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u137	One second, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, I repeat, who did not understand. Five amendments will now be made to confirm, and then we vote in favour of the bill. That's why I'd like to be there. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm sorry. First, the 91st amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u138	Thank you. The paper foresees that the competence of the central executive body, which implements the State policy of State oversight in the field of environmental protection, may include other activities defined by law and placed on it by the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the power of the President of the State, the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are clearly enshrined in the Constitution of our State with you. Let's not frame the President, this is the Presidential faction, and not make him then forced by this law to violate the Constitution of Ukraine. So I'm putting this right here for confirmation. Please don't support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the 91st Amendment of the People's Deputy, yes. She's a committee member. Please take the position of the committee, because Reasonoff is asking for confirmation. What the position of the committee is, then, to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u140	The committee took this into account at its meeting. So please support the committee's drafting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u141	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm putting 91 amendments on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:53:26]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Next amendment, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u142	Ruslan Alexiyovich, they're identical, they're four. I'll just take the floor and ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u143	Just tell me the numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u144	It's 35th, 37th, 65th and 71st.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u145	35th, 37th, 65th and 71st -- did I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u146	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u147	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u148	The amendments establish that the mandate of the central executive authority to ensure the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of environmental protection is already in place. It's the same order that's been set up. So we're actually setting a precedent when an organ sets itself up, controls itself, and this, in addition to absolute allogeneity, also creates corruption risks. I don't understand why the committee supported these amendments, and I suggest they don't support and reject them. Please put them to the vote, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u149	Now. One second, I'll find them all. Then I'll put them on the line, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, first line of the 35th. This amendment by the national deputy of Solomon, it is taken into account in an editorial way, but the decision is requested for confirmation. I'm betting on the 35th amendment, which is taken into account in an editorial way. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:55:11]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. The next amendment to the 37th Bondarenko, it's edited. Reasonably, he asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:55:37]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 65th. 65th is the amendment of the People's Chamberlain, and it's also taken into account in editorial terms. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this amendment in the decision of a committee that is edited to confirm. Please vote. [[14:56:11]] For 236 The amendment has been taken into account editorially. 71 revisions. 71 amendments to the Bondarenko People's Deputy, it's taken into account in an editorial way. Reasonably, he asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:56:42]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. From the procedure, please Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u150	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the law is now balanced by the fact that of the four rights that govern one relationship, two rights are counted, two rights are not. I think in this situation it's better to put them on the committee to agree, because then there's going to be a terrible problem. So in order to write everything down according to the rules of the key Rules, let's hand it over to the committee so that they can work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u151	Thank you. But I am. With regard to such an offer, I would like to ask the head of the committee, what is your position, taking into account the situation in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u152	I ask the bill to be re-readed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get this straight. I'm going to make the first proposal that she doesn't get on the committee, and then we're going to send her back to the second. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 4558. Please vote. [[14:58:35]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill be sent back to the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:58:57]] For 299 Dear colleagues, considering that this is a Euro-Integration Bill, I'm proposing to shorten the deadlines for the preparation of the second reading, because it's clear that it's correcting, and it doesn't take much time. So that we can take him to the next meeting. I'm asking you to shorten the time limits for all offers to be rereaded. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:59:35]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, and the final bill for today. One second. I'll ask you one second. The next bill, 4353, is a draft of the Postal Liaison Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we can't do this without discussion. We've already said 80 amendments to the EC and 57 amendments to the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, maybe we'll think about replacing it with some of these. We're not going to replace it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, then let's go to the bill. Draft Law on Postal Liaison. I invite Zujov Maxim Sergiyovich, who will be. Please, Maxim Sergiyovich. Good afternoon! Please, who's gonna do the repairs? Dear colleagues, is there anyone who insists on amendment? You don't? Ariev, please. Or let's do it, let's do it. Who, Ariev and Tsimbaluk, will insist? Confirm at the end, my friends. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I get it, confirmation at the end. First, who insists on counting? Would you please tell Fatherland to insist on their amendments? Mikhail Mikhailovich Cimbaluk, how many amendments have you made? Three minutes, please? Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, 3 minutes instead of the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u154	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we actually need a bill, but we, as Fatherland, had the hope that by the second reading, it would be improved and removed, which is exactly in conflict with our European aspirations. For example, Amendment 28, which is rejected, describes what a courier service is. This is a service for extracting, sorting, transporting and delivering internal and international mail in the form of written correspondence, mails with the possibility of confirming delivery in writing or electronic form. Unfortunately, the committee did not consider the amendment. And we think it's wrong, because mail service is an operator's activity in receiving, processing, delivering, delivering mail, carrying out user's mail orders to meet users' needs. Thus, we should take into account that Directive 97/67 of the European Union and of the Council of 15 December 1997 on common rules for the development of the internal market for social services and the improvement of the quality of services does not contain the regulation of courier services. Therefore, to provide a definition of courier service through mail and to settle this issue by the Post Office Act is incorrect. In addition, many non - postal operators provide courier services by their own means. For example, they provide delivery of goods and products by couriers. So we think we need to exclude the term "courier service" from article 1 of the bill and exclude this service from the mailing list. Otherwise, as European colleagues will then understand, we go against directives that define what the courier service and the list of postal services are. Around this was the biggest dispute, and because they didn't take our papers into account in the second reading, the "Fatherland" faction can't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u155	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, thank you. I understand there'll be five amendments and twenty amendments from the "ES" faction, right? Who will be, who will be the author? Klimpush-Cincadze, please. Call the repair number first.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u156	I'll take three adjustments first. Amendment number 16. My colleagues, I really agree that the bill is necessary for us to establish rules that operate in a civilized world and ensure that we comply with European norms in our legislation. Unfortunately, however, the bill, in preparing it for second reading, appears to have some inconsistencies with the directive that regulates this area. In particular, I propose to take into account amendment 16, which, according to the directive, proposes that an additional term "deployment with declared value" should be included in the term "deployment". This is a service from postage insurance to the alleged sender in case of loss, theft, or damage. That's how we'll protect it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 16 amendments to Klimpush-Cincadze on account. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:06:21]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Next, please, Joanna Orestovna, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u158	Again, colleagues, if we are misusing terminology and translating it from the directives of the European Union, and translating it wrongly, and putting it into our legislation, that would mean a distorted implementation of European Union law in Ukrainian legislation. Therefore, I propose amendment 33, which was rejected by the committee, to be taken into account. This is a unit of correspondence, a written message on any physical medium to be transmitted and delivered at the address specified by the sender on or on the package. Books, catalogues, newspapers, and periodicals are not considered objects of correspondence. Colleagues, I'm simply asking you to apply this terminology in Ukrainian legislation, which is passed here from the European Union directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the 33rd Amendment of National Deputy Klimpush-Cincadze. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:07:52]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Please, what's the final, Joanna Orestovna, do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u160	Sadly, much more amendments have not been taken into account. I hope that you, colleagues, will at least support amendment 244, which we propose that the financial reports of the designated operator who provides universal postal services, as appropriate, should be compiled and made available for audit by an independent auditor and published in accordance with legislation. And this designated operator, who provides these universal postal services, publishes an annual report on his activities, including information on the number of complaints and their settlement. I very much hope that you, colleagues, are interested in the fact that when we have a postal operator who provides universal services to make sure that we understand exactly how it works, how it functions, how its financial status, and how we can help this operator deal with these obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the 244th Amendment of National Deputy Klimpush-Cincadze. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:09:22]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Who's next, please? Ariev, what are your adjustments, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u162	I'm asking you to give me three minutes instead of revisions: 21, 39, 44, 58, 68, 65, 72, 75. Three minutes to position.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u163	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u164	Turn around, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u165	Turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I want to make one point: this law is very necessary. Indeed, if we are now adopting similar laws in accordance with our European aspirations, we need to act in terms of European logic, the logic of the European Union. What is the logic of the European Union? Minimum regulation. That is, where regulation can be regulated, government authorities and allied bodies are involved. Where you can't, let the business handle itself. All the amendments I just said relate to the definition of terminology. And all of this definition of terminology has one important, very important difference between how it's stated in the law. Because we're talking about certain things that will be regulated through universal services. And I would very much ask people to listen carefully, because universal services are. I understand that everyone here is busy with their affairs, but you will vote in favour of European law. So listen carefully. Universal services are the ones that the postal services are obliged to provide to the population regardless of anything, if that formulation is so simplified. Everything else is non-universal services. If we're talking about how regulation is going to apply to universal services, then it's a perfectly logical thing. So it's access for everyone in all places, no matter how difficult places are available in rural areas, in mountain areas, where the postal service is supposed to work. Non-universal services are actually extra services. It's a premium, you could say, services, if you translate it so conditionally into a business language. So if we interfere with the regulation of other services that can or cannot be provided or given according to the operator’s wishes, it is not a European thing at all. Let's still understand one thing: we want to help our postal operators develop or we want to regulate them. So that's why my revisions that I've just listed, right now, at the beginning, relate to the definition of terminology and from there, right, the whole logic of the bill and the logic of the future law go. So I'm asking you to think very seriously about what we're doing: we're taking a European step or we're taking a Soviet step, bringing us back to a regulated system that gives the regulator the right to do whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who will insist on their amendments? Yeah, I don't have a list, you called me five and told me, and so did the others. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I asked for a list. You can pick me up, then give me a list of these amendments. You didn't insist on voting them, you asked for three minutes instead. What are your amendments, please tell me. Because that's what we need to find. You speak plainly, and I need to look for them. Please include Arieva again.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u168	Mr. Chairman, I initially called the amendments 21st, 39th, 44th, 58th, 65th, 68th, 72nd, 75th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u169	Stop! You again. 21st, 39th, 44th, 58th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u170	65th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u171	You said 68th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u172	68th, 72nd and 75th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u173	75th. I'll take a look at them. The first is 21st. Dear colleagues, the 21th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Ariev. It's counted. Do you want her beaten up or what? I can't understand your logic. It's accounted for, do you want to put it on confirmation now? No, you called me first, 21st, it's counted. That's why I'm asking for a list of amendments, you know? What's next? 39th. 29th. I'm looking. 29th, this is an amendment to Bondarev. Great. How can we put it? Let's see, 39th, maybe we'll go. 39th, Ariev, rejected. Should we put it to a vote? I'm betting on a vote of 39. Please identify and vote. [[15:14:56]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Please, next 44th. Yeah, I'm looking now. It's counted. Put it on. No, no, not 58th, you told me, 44th. 58th next. Ariev. Declined. I'm betting on the vote of 58 of Arjev's amendment. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[15:15:37]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next 65, yeah. It's considered editorially. You want her beaten up? Let's move on. 68th. Declined. I'm betting on amendment 68 Arjev. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[15:16:10]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Next 72nd. It's rejected. 72 Arrive’s amendment, which was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:16:36]] For-47 The decision is not taken. And final, 75th. The committee's dismissed. 75 amendments, please identify and vote. [[15:16:58]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Igorovich, are you all right? Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u174	I'm sorry, 134 amendments. It's a block of amendments that actually tell us that we're going against the European Union directive, and there's a bunch of other amendments that make postal services uncompetitive again. I am asking you very much not to take the definition of universal services out of the context, because this is the key in this bill. Because in the European Union, only universal services are regulated in European laws. You're regulating, we're going to continue to amend for confirmation, where there's open corruption and open lobbying of certain interests, and creating a non-competitive one.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u175	Arrive’s 134th amendment, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[15:18:34]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Who's next? Everything? Windstorm. Is that what you want to do? Let's get everyone who owns them first. Will anyone else insist on taking into account their amendments? No, we're done. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Corrections for confirmation will be available. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I give the floor to the people’s representative, Vetarovich. But everyone please call it an amendment, a number, because I need to find it. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u176	Good afternoon! Amendment 95 removes a very important standard. The sender's address and the sender's address, which are sent from within Ukraine, are done in the national language. This is the norm, in particular, of the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language. Please do not support this amendment in order to ensure that this rule remains in this law. We seem to have found an understanding with the board of directors. Therefore, please do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u177	What is the position of the committee? Do you agree with what Windstorm said? 95 amendments to the national language. But she's accounted for, and she won't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u178	This amendment is already included in the preceding 94 — the issue of the provision of postal services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u179	Okay. Dear colleagues, the 95th Amendment of National Deputy Klimenko Yulia What's the author doing here? This is the position of the committee. We're not having a debate at the committee level right now. This is the position of those who put it and the position of the committee. I call you the author of this amendment by the honourable Julia Klimenko. But this amendment is taken into account by the committee, but Vladimir Mikhailovich puts this amendment on record. Did I say it right? Please vote. [[15:20:43]] For 224 Dear colleagues, I thank all who stand here, David Georgievich himself. We did not have two votes to confirm the amendment of the honourable Julia Klimenko. Then you'll deal with it. Dear colleagues, the wash-up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why give the word, why? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, that's not what I called it in a bad context. I don't think a man is offended by his name or by his father. No, dear fellows. Julia Leonidina, if you want, you can come up and tell me in person, but we won't disturb the order. Dear colleagues, did you get it all? Can I put the bill to the vote? That's what we've put on for confirmation. Who else is there? Ivanna Orestovna, please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u180	Amendment number 140. It's actually written that it's edited, but it, in the same amendment, by the way, gives the regulator authority, really, to oversee universal service exclusively. But as a result, it is somehow taken into account the universal service of the regulator's clearance. So I propose not to support this amendment, and then we leave the regulator in this area only with the authority to oversee universal services, not all postal operators, and not to duplicate the tax functions of the Maintenance Service, of all other authorities, overseeing, controlling all postal operators. Please, this is contrary to the directive, please do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the 140th Amendment of the Negulewsky People’s Deputy, is taken into account in an editorial way. At the same time, the honourable deputy Klimpush-Cincadze makes this decision to the committee for confirmation. So I'm putting 140 revisions in an editorial version for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:23:19]] For 254 Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. Dear colleagues, can we move on to a bill? Ivanna Orestovna, do you have any more? Please, Ivanna Orestovna, repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u182	Three more revisions to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u183	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u184	144 revisions. Again, this amendment further expands the mandate of the supervisory authority — the national commission. This is in direct contravention of a directive that does not require supervision by all postal operators. These are additional opportunities for corruption, for duplicating the functions of this commission and other public authorities. Don't do what you have to do. You'll see, in two weeks we'll be with you to adopt a bill that will correct these mistakes. Don't count them now.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 144 people’s deputies of Negulewski. It's considered editorially. At the same time, Klimpush-Cincadze asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. So I'm asking you to confirm 144 revisions that are edited. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:24:54]] For 251 Decision taken. Please, Joanna Orestovna, you have another amendment, right, if I'm not mistaken?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u186	Two more.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u187	Two more. Here's the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u188	Amendment No. 145. This is another amendment that replaces the authorization of a national regulator that should regulate the provision of universal services exclusively to the extent that it expands the mandate and obliges to regulate work and control, punish, and work of all mail operators. This is in direct contravention of Directive 97/67/EU, which regulates this area in the European Union. Colleagues, please don't support this proposal and this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u189	145. The amendment by Julia Leonidina Klimenko. She's a committee member. At the same time, Joanna Orestovna asks for confirmation. I'll bet you 145 on that. [[15:26:19]] For 255 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. And it's final. Ivanno Orestovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u190	In addition, Amendment 147 allows the regulator to refer again to the court regarding the actions of any postal operator, as opposed to what is provided by the EU Directive, what the controller can do about universal service providers. Colleagues, please do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u191	147th Amendment of Juliet Leonidina Klimenko She's a committee member. Joanna Orestovna asks for such a decision to be confirmed. I'll bet you 147. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:27:22]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the decision-making after. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the Committee on European Integration? Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a committee decision that you are authorized to speak from the Committee, Ivanno Orestovno? Well, let's see the decision. I didn't see anything. Because this is a matter for the entire committee to see, Ivanno Orestovno. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, make a decision, I'll see because I don't have it. A representative, but it's not determined who. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, come on. Ivano Orestovno, read the committee's decision, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u192	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u193	So we agreed on five amendments to confirm, and you made them. Dear colleagues, it turns out we're going to have four more amendments to confirm. Six. Okay, six amendments. Mr. Ariev. Please, National Deputy Ariev. Call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u194	Editorial amendment no. 133. I think we should just rule it out. In this case, again, we are going back to the European Union directive. Because the directive of the European Union provides for minimum regulation. Do you understand? Minimum regulation. And here we give the regulator more and more powers. Let us still logically approach. So we call this bill pro-European, and we actually make it anti-European, anti-business. There is little more to be done to confirm an amendment that speaks very clearly of lobbyism. And that's why I'm convinced right now that we have to cancel these amendments in order to be able to adopt this bill. And the bill should be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u195	133 The amendment of the Negulewsky People’s Deputy is taken into account in an editorial way. The national deputy Ariev demands such a decision to be made for confirmation. I'm putting 133 amendments in the editorial form where it's taken into account for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:30:18]] For 262 The amendment remains edited. Next. Number, please. Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u196	148th. I've given you my arguments on more than one occasion, but I see no one wants to hear it. And what my colleague, Ivanna Orestovna, has just said is that we're going to have to go back, because in the European Union, when they see this bill, they're going to say absolutely clearly that, sorry, but we don't have to do osmosis. That's what you're doing right now, not a European bill. And so when we talk about what we have to do to meet the standards of the European Union and do the opposite things, who are we, if you'll excuse us, who are we asking for what is happening in the Supreme Council right now? Do we want to go to the European Union or do we want to tell them that we want to go to the European Union and actually make the opposite decisions? Let's just be logical and consistent to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u197	148 amendments to the Negulewsky People's Deputy, are considered in an editorial way. Arjev asks that such a decision be made for confirmation. I'm betting 148 amendments in the same line that took it into account by the committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:31:49]] For 259. Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. Please, Ariev, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u198	151 revisions. I understand that no one here hears and no one wants to understand what's going on, and everyone wants to press the button and go home faster. But if we adopt laws that are in order daily under the European Union badge, let's talk about these laws. Universal services, again, you want to exclude what needs to be regulated. We only have to regulate universal services, not everything in a row. Because what is being given to the governing body in this law today is overriding. And I realize that here every time it comes down to the fact that the more authority it gives to regulators, the better. But with that kind of baggage in the European Union, we're not going to be accepted; it's about deregulation. Where are your promises before the elections?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u199	151 Amendment of Negulewski, edited. Arjev asks that this decision be made for confirmation. I'm betting Arjev's proposal, 151 amendments to the committee's drafting, and I'm putting it on the stand. I'd like her to vote. [[15:33:28]] For 261 Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. Please, Ariev, the number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u200	154th. This amendment actually obliges the operator to arrange his documents for the approval of the controller. You know, let's get the regulator into company management by then, or what? How is this done? You realize that this is nowhere in normal European countries. What you're doing today is totally anti-European. I'm asking you to understand and read what's going on. And directly to the companies that were supposed to use this law, you are now creating additional problems. Why do you make this law to strengthen officials in order to strengthen corruption in order to create the conditions for another person's bribery, so that business can't work properly? Answer yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u201	154. Negulewski’s amendment, as amended. Ariev will simply make such a decision for confirmation. I'm betting Arjev's proposal, asking 154 amendments to the committee's approval. Please vote. [[15:35:04]] For 257 Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u202	This is a very important amendment because my name, 367 amendments, is there. It is edited, and in the editorial direction, there is something that I would never sign in my life. Because it's a lobbyism, because in order for international departures to go smoothly. I've talked about the need for a general standard, and here I've been assigned that international postal exchange is only possible when there's an operator code in the World Postal Union. Beautifully, beautifully, you are actually tying business to certain global associations. But today’s business, including the courier’s, is taking a very different course. You're in charge of digitization, and here you've actually set up corruption, and you've put in more support than corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, 367 amendments to the Ariev People’s Deputies It's considered editorially. At the same time, the national deputy Ariev disagrees with this wording and asks that it be taken into account because he did not mean to say so. So I'm going to put 367 amendments, which are edited, on confirmation, in an editorial that is considered by the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:36:55]] For 257 Decision taken. Everything? Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what happened, six, I think. There were six of them, dear colleagues. Let's go to the vote, friends. Thank you. Ariev, what other correction did you have? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u204	Please learn to count to six. 405 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u205	Do you want to count with me? I can count.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u206	Count it. Because. And please don't hesitate. Because in this case there is the right of a national MP to make his amendments to the confirmation. Please read the Rules. And if you support corruption, now everyone who votes in favour of this amendment actually supports the corruption and lobbyism of some postal companies in order to have exclusive international postal shipments so that other companies actually lose all of these opportunities. You want to lobby, lobby, but it'll be known to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u207	Mr. Ariev, I would very much recommend that you choose words in communication, because Parliament is a certain level of culture and education. And when you want to see the hamster, look in the mirror. That's where we end up. Let's move on. Number, I'm sorry, number four hundred? What? I ask, Ariev, what is the number four hundred? 405th. 405 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Zujeva It's considered editorially. Arjev asks that this decision be confirmed, that such a decision be made by the committee. So I'm putting 405 in an editorial that is considered by the committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:39:10]] For 254 Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider this matter. Yes, Ivanno Orestovno, you're two minutes away from the committee. I was given a decision by the committee. Dear colleagues from the Committee on European Integration, I am addressing you. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you don't have that decision, so I do. Why you. You can't do this to yourself, Ivanno Orestovna. There is a committee representative, but there is no decision to make. Okay. Please read it, Ivanno Orestovno. Please. And then, dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. But I would very much ask the European Integration Committee, if there are any European integration laws, please make a decision who will represent them so that we don't see that you don't have a diversity in the committee. Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u208	Simply, yes, the committee head in accordance with the Rules will present a decision if there is no such decision. But, colleagues, I want to inform you, we are now adopting an important law, informing you of the decision of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union. In its conclusion to the second reading, our committee notes: for its purpose, the bill is aimed at implementing Directive 97/67 of the European Union on common rules for the development of the internal market for postal services of the Community and improving the quality of services. However, the individual provisions of the bill require further elaboration with a view to bringing them into line with EU Directive 97/67. In particular, to bring into line with the directive specific terms, to bring into line with the requirements of the directive the law on exclusive rights of the designated postal operator, to bring into line with the requirements of the law on the powers of the national regulatory authority, to bring the law on termination of the postal service operator’s activities in the field of postal services into line with the requirements of the directive. The bill also requires the conclusion of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the impact of individual positions on the competitive environment. According to the Committee, for its purpose, the bill is aimed at implementing Directive 97/67/EC on common rules for the development of the internal market for the services of the Community and improving the quality of services, as amended by Directives 2002/39 and 2008/6. However, the individual provisions of the bill do not meet Ukraine's international legal obligations in the field of European integration and require further work and the conclusion of the AMCA. And now, colleagues, you can decide how much you want to wave that it's a Euro-Integration Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u209	I'm asking you all to read the committee's decision. We have enough expertise to understand what it means. [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll be in this place. You'll be in charge. Do you understand? Let's move on, dear fellows. I'm proposing, I'm proposing a second reading and, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Postal Liaison Act (registration number 4353). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:43:02]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Alexander. One second, I need you to sign the budget and other laws, please. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u210	I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council sign the bills adopted today as a whole immediately and send them to the President of Ukraine for signature. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please be supportive. [[15:43:45]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-11-03-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We're still working for a full victory. Glory to Ukraine!
