ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we have not closed our plenary session. So today, according to the decree we have adopted on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in terms of martial law and at the proposal of the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in good tradition, let's start this day together with the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 57th period of the heroic struggle of the Ukrainian people and their armies against widespread Russian armed aggression. Ukrainian soldiers beat Russian invaders in the battlefield in every direction each day, displaying great heroism, personal courage, high professionalism, and a real pattern of devoted service to the Fatherland. Sadly, however, in this brutal and criminal war, we lose our soldiers and civilians. Despite pain and grief, the great Ukrainian people know that heroes do not die, Ukraine will always remember the immortal feats of our courageous warriors. Dear colleagues, I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the memory of our protectors and protectors, who gave their lives for an independent, sovereign, legal and democratic Ukraine. We also honor the memory of our peaceful citizens, who were innocently killed by Russian invaders. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and groups from today, we are returning to the usual way of voting in plenary sessions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this, this is very important information. From now on, we're going to be voting, as we were doing, using the sensory button. And I remind you that once the vote starts, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press one of the pros or cons buttons, and hold these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the vote, that is, until the results of the board vote appear. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I propose to hold an emergency vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. Now, one second. Dear colleagues, right before we make the signal vote, Alexander Sergiyovich will make the announcement, and then we will restart the system and make the signal vote. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we have two organizational announcements that directly affect what will be written on the board, so we need to put them to the vote. So, according to this statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules, I am reporting the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bozkow Aleksandra Valeriyovich, as part of the MP's political party "Serve of the People". Welcome. And in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 59, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I report on the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call of the parliamentary group "Platform for Life and Peace", which included 23 Ukrainian national deputies. The deputy's group, Platforma for Life and Peace, was elected as the national deputy of Ukraine, Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich. The apparatus’s request to make appropriate adjustments to the board and to the rest of the organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, there is a request to wait a few minutes for us to overload the system so that all these new transitions and groups are already reflected. Then, while the system is overheating, dear colleagues, we are working today according to the order of the day that you have. We agreed to work for a period of approximately 3-4 hours to solve the issues that there is. And I'm also asking the distinguished National Deputies, who are going to take pictures and videos, to put them on the air after we finish our sessions here in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Do you have a deal, Your Honor? Ready? Are we ready, dear colleagues? Not yet. One second. Okay. I'm waiting. Three minutes, huh? Thank you. Three minutes, respectable colleagues. Dear colleagues, just so far as it's being prepared, I'll remind you, today we are voting as we voted in peacetime, using the sensory button, using our own cards and voting accordingly "For", "Restraint" or "Resist." Dear colleagues, come on, the technical department of our Council is asking us to conduct a signal vote to see if the results are adequately reflected. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I therefore propose an emergency vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. People's MPs please take part in the signal vote and, together with the sensory button, press the "Za", the green button, the honorary colleagues, and keep the results on the board until the results are complete, before the board comes out. Dear colleagues, are you ready? People's deputies, please vote. Dear colleagues, the green button, please, I see, is both red and yellow. [[12:14:17]] For 292 We can go to the vote. All factions are reflected, some have not voted. Dear colleagues, let's take another test vote. Okay? Dear colleagues, we're re-voting, please. We're just pressing the green button to see if the system is working. People's deputies please take their seats and I'll remind you of the sensory button. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote one more time. [[12:15:07]] For 297 The factions. Yes, I can see everything. Okay. We can die. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. A list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board has been given to you. Let's move on to the agenda, start with the first one, we've agreed on a series of issues that will be discussed without discussion. One second. Low questions will not be discussed, but further questions will be discussed. Dear colleagues, first question is 7,300. This is a draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the state of war in Ukraine. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the Presidential Decree on the introduction of military status in Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 20 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status, the President of Ukraine on 19 April submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 7300) on the approval of the Ukrainian President's Decree on the continuation of the military status in Ukraine. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the issue of the approval of the Presidential Decree on the introduction of military status in Ukraine is considered by the Supreme Council without a vote on its inclusion in the agenda. At its meeting, the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the prescribed draft law as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine of articles 189, 190 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law puts to the vote for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 7300) on the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:18:01]] For-300 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill that we agreed to do without discussion is Bill 7194, which is a bill amending some of the legislative acts to improve the effectiveness of individual sanctions. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 7194. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:18:56]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 7278, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for exemption from taxation for voluntary handovers to the Ukrainian Armed Forces capable of applying the aggressor state's military technique. I propose to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments 7278. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:19:53]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next bill, 4284, is a second reading, it's a draft of the Deradation Act. Dear colleagues, on the Clean Thursday we're going to get rid of Soviet legislation, that's very good. We agreed that I would give two minutes only to Mr. Váterovich, and we are voting in the second reading and in general. Please, Vladimir Mikhajlovich Vjatrović, and let us proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Indeed, thank you to Mr. Ruslan for continuing the good tradition of the Clean Thursday, when the decommunization laws were passed on that day, we will now consider the Deradation Act. Convinced that everything that unites us now with Russia is being used by Russia to weaken Ukraine. So I support this kind of initiative in every way, and I am very happy that they will be adopted today. At the same time, I am convinced that today we should consider another very important issue that is directly related to deradation. It's about Bill 7297, which we're finally going to cancel another very important avatarism of Soviet times -- Victory Day 9th of May. May 9th Victory Day, which is the foundation of Russia's myth of conquest, which is used as a tool to restore influence on Ukraine, which is used as a tool to destroy all Ukrainian. I live in Warzel, where about 200 local residents have been killed in these weeks. Their killers are young soldiers of the Russian Federation, most of them born in the early 2000s. They're the products of this victory, they're the ones who grew up in the victory cult on May 9th. I therefore urge Parliament to consider Bill 7297, which must be approved by May 9, so that we do not celebrate this year with the Russian Federation. We have all of Europe to talk about defeating Nazism on May 8th. It is now known that in Mariupola on May 9 the invaders will celebrate on our graves, on our bones, on our ruins. Let's not do this in sync with them. Let's celebrate the victory over Nazism with all of Europe on May 8th. Let's celebrate the Day of Europe on May 9. Let us approach our victory in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt the draft Law on the Deradation of Ukrainian Legislation (Registration No. 4284) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:26]] For 293 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next we agreed without a vote is the Bill of Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Ninth Call. Order 7301. I would like to make an offer to take into account the editorial details of the committee as a whole. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:19]] For 295 Decision taken. Please, and we've just agreed that we're going to vote another bill without discussion -- 7270. Do I get it right? They came and said. Therefore, my fellow Members, I propose to include in the agenda of the day and to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the legal regime and the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine (project registration number 7270). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:17]] For-300 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we have completed a block of laws that we do without discussion. The following laws will be discussed. But I'm asking you to stay put, because we asked you to discuss only the factions that have desires, so it's not going to be the traditional 15 minutes, it's going to be less. But in order to do that, we need to first vote on the simplified procedure for these bills where we first read. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to the next Bill 7299. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. Dear colleagues, I propose to include this bill in the agenda, which requires 226 votes. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of including this bill in the agenda of the day session. [[12:26:23]] For 302 Decision taken. Next, I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified way. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[12:26:46]] For 251 Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed that under this bill we would immediately proceed without a report under this bill to be discussed. Do I get it right? Do you need a report from the Main Committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't need it. Please, which of the factions would you like to make a statement? The Voice faction? Then let's write it down. Please sign up for the factions: two for, two for, two against. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Tzabal Volodymir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction supports Law 7299, which sends an additional 200 billion dollars to the state budget reserve, which will be spent on state defense, defence and assistance to internally displaced persons. We are also grateful to the committee that quickly gathered today to complement this law with the thesis that money will go only for these purposes, because the reserve fund is a very flexible mechanism that can be spent on anything. But in general, apart from this law, I want to take this opportunity to call on all ministries, all government agencies. We've been at war for almost two months now, we're fighting an aggressor, the whole economy, all the government authorities, all the budget officials have to go to war. What does that mean? This means the economy of all expenses that are not defence-related and the targeting of all saved expenses on the country's security. We also need to understand that there should be very strict control of expenditure in this situation, since it is known that very many administrators can benefit from the fact that expenses need to be spent very quickly during wartime conditions. So once again, I urge everyone, all the national MPs, to exercise strict control over public spending, as we did in this law, when we found that there was no specific indication of what the money would be spent on, we pointed out that, and today we will vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, it's really hard to say when your country is at war, when your country's economy has fallen by 35 percent, when the annual capital costs of all directors are completely sequestered, when there are very many unresolved issues, but at this time the country has to win. We hope that this room is the last to vote in favour of a decision without specifying the principals and expenses. We know exactly that the entire society, the military, who are the reliable advocates of our country, and we will control that the funds provided for by this law, in part, of the increase in the expenditure of the State budget for the 22nd year under the budget programme of the Reserve Fund, amounting to 200 billion dollars, are directed solely to the provision of security and defence and financial support to internally displaced persons. We have already learned that the proper funding of our defenses will ensure our country’s victory in this unprovoked war. Let's pay attention to the financing of our own defenses. I thank you for agreeing to revise the text of the law, and we will be able to vote in favour of this bill on the basis and in general as well. And then we'll all control it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u10	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction took an active part in furthering the previous text of the law. In our opinion and belief, the Fatherland factions, the measures that are being proposed precisely because of the provision of 200 billion to the reserve fund, will allow the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury to adopt the relevant decisions very quickly. Importantly, these are the proposals that relate to the targeting of these funds primarily for the Armed Forces of Ukraine and for the temporary movement of persons. In fact, these are the key directions that will allow today to decide quickly what could not be resolved through amendments to previous laws and the Budget Code, which allow the Cabinet of Ministers to manage the budget quickly. There is no doubt that there is an external debt problem. That is why the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers as a whole, needs to pay particular attention to the cancellation of debts that are actually the most difficult burden on the country's budget. We understand perfectly, and I think the world understands, and the world's financial institutions, which are now in Ukraine, whether the world will survive against the Russian aggressor, or whether it is possible in these circumstances to resist both real and financial and military resources. That's why the faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u12	Thank you, Mr. Head. And we want to thank you for your persistence in discussing this bill on our Conciliation Council. And I want to say that today, in the conditions in which our country is in war conditions, we can't show a different position than we're demonstrating right now. I also want to thank the leaders of the two factions who changed their position in the morning and actually gave us the opportunity to now vote for this law in general and not wait for a second reading in a week or two. These 200 billion dollars are needed by our military personnel, both the U.S.S.S.A. and the N.S. Guards and others who are protecting our country today, now and immediately. So I am absolutely convinced and I ask, after this law has been passed, to sign it immediately, it is small, and to sign it to the President of Ukraine. We need to demonstrate unity today. And all political contradictions must remain outside this room, must remain outside this time. And as soon as possible, we need to make decisions that will really support our military in their struggle, which the whole world is fascinated with today. Our group votes in favour in the first reading and in general, and we urge all our colleagues to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 (registration number 7299). Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:36:29]] For 296 Decision taken. The factions, please. Next 7269. Dear colleagues, 7269. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status on the Functioning of Local Self-Government during the Wartime. Dear colleagues, we need to vote on a few decisions. The first is to include this issue in the agenda of the day session and 226 votes, please. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:14]] For 257 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:36]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a need for discussion, for part of the discussion is simply to enroll only those who want to discuss it. Because we agreed, I think, one faction has only shown a desire on this issue. Please sign up. The word is given to Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u14	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you know, to be honest, I find it strange to see a relaxed situation and our situation in the hall, the only way to go back to the actual second wave of war today, especially in the east and south, and the whole country in a state of, in principle, war, to return to these discussions that will last for hours. I speak out against it personally. And I don't think we can relax here and go back to the usual, with all due respect, regime, unless someone in some territory, thank God, has anything flying over their heads. Returning to this bill is absolutely right. But I would like to point out that some community leaders who have stressed where no state of war has been declared allow themselves not only to control but also to place premiums for their employees in war conditions up to 200-250 percent. As far as I'm concerned, it's totally unacceptable at a time when we actually have a budget of minus billions in the budget, and we're actually sitting here with a lack of resources, especially in the communities that are on the up-and-up today, while others are supposed to help them. And, of course, I can't help but say about Mariupul today. Our boys are expensive, hold on. We believe that we will still see all of you whole and make every effort to get you out and continue to fight on other front lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u16	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, in the previous speech, you probably had the right examples and the right things, but let's be honest, there's a second story. Today, local authorities and local government officials stand in the first ranks of armed aggression. In all areas of measure, the leaders of rural, rural communities are those in the first line of defense. They are doing everything they can to enable those cities that suffer from aggression to live, those cities that suffer less from aggression can, too, have the opportunity to live, have the opportunity to receive refugees, have the opportunity to function normally, have the capacity to provide the functioning of local infrastructure and the local economy. You know, I've heard a lot about the mayors of Butchi and Irpen before the war. But where are all the critics of the mayors of Butchi and Irpen? And Mayor Butchi and Mayor Irpeña were the ones who stood up for their communities in defense of their cities during the war. So it is vital that in wartime wartime, we do not take or take lightly the authority of local governments, and it is vital not to pass them on to thoughtless military administrations. Of course, where this military, military situation requires, it is necessary to do so. But we need to maintain balance, allow local self-government authorities today to do even more effectively their functions and ensure the functioning of local agriculture and the ability to protect their cities, villages, and villages, and shelter those who go out into communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pavlovenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Princess Mikola, please, Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u18	Friends, what's this law about? He says that the mayors and heads of the community, where there is no military action, themselves form what they want, release, appoint, and release the directors of the utilities, form a budget. In fact, they are given all the powers of counsel where there is no military action. It's very sad when we, in a state of war, kill democracy, it's very sad when we don't pay attention to those pollsters who give us from the European Union to become candidates, and introduce non-democratic corruption norms. Otherwise, such things cannot be called marauding during wartime. You know, when we covered up the war, we shut down independent TV channels by shutting them off from the digital T2 network. This is what people who want us not to get applied for, people who want to rob local budgets now actually want to destroy the local councils' activities, are now pushing this law. What if, God forbid, the occupation begins? What if it's up to one person? If this man betrays, what will we do? Sadly, this law is a real threat to national security. That's why "European Solidarity" will be held in the vote for this law. At the same time, we really want to pay our respects to those who heroically, together with their communities, maintain order under occupation or occupation. We want to thank all those who fight, and we want to say, let's not hide from the war where someone wants to steal. Thank you. We'll hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u19	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Regrettably, war is taking place throughout the country today. So we have, coming out of what we literally voted a few minutes ago, namely the continuation of the state of war until May 25, based on the fact that this situation is in place, and we have made the right decision, the very logical adoption of the next law. As far as democracy is concerned, I think it's hard to find a greater proponent of democracy in this room than it is to deputize a lot of convocations. But it is difficult to talk about absolute democracy and the protection of its rights and the corresponding obligations under martial law. That's why we support this bill, based on the fact that there is, unfortunately, a military threat in the entire country right now. We hope that the appropriate decisions that will be made, which will be made by this law, will not be abused, nor will they be subject to proper control by central executive and military authorities. We support this law. Thank you for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u21	Thank you. Honorable deputies. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, one minute. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies. Oh, I don't see who. Okay, and "Trust." I just don't have glasses, I can't see. And then we go to the vote, invite the people's deputies to the hall. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, despite our busy schedule, we believe that there are a number of bills that still need to be worked out, despite the state of war, we need to distinguish between the state of war and the state of war with the occupied territories and not the occupied territories. And we don't want to harm our local communities, those who work and work peacefully, to the extent that we can work peacefully in a state of war. That's why we think this Bill 7269 needs to be further developed by all factions and parliamentary groups. It's better to take him to the next plenary session. Thank you. Our MP group will abstain from voting on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bakunets. And, Your Honor, take your seats, and then we'll go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u24	Yes, it is clear that the state of war in our country requires swift operational decisions. Yes, clearly, you and I see how a large number of city heads are examples of how we need to help our defenders, our soldiers, our heroes. And today, when there is clear cooperation between the military administrations, between the city councils, between the city heads to help our army win the victory, we need to consider whether it is worth it to do away with the vote and every deputy in every community. Perhaps the city’s heads and deputies work better together and think better to help our army than to put the responsibility on just one city’s head. So let's think about voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to take the basis of the proposal of the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, and to cut the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading according to part two of article 116 of the Rules. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status on the Functioning of Local Self-Government during the Wartime (Law No. 7269). Ready, fellows of honor? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:49]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions. Let's move on. Next bill, 7275. Ready, colleagues? 7275. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on employment and compulsory state-of-the-art unemployment insurance. Dear colleagues, we must vote on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the day session. I need 226 votes. People's deputies, please. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:49:38]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consider this with a reduced procedure. I'll bet you that. Please vote. [[12:50:00]] For 253 Dear colleagues, as agreed, without a report from the main committee without a report from the committee, we proceed immediately to the discussion of this bill. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please Jurchishin, the distinguished Jurchishin Jaroslav Romanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos". Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u26	Dear friends must be one of the laws for which we, in principle, are to gather today. For the sake of understanding. Now people leaving my hometown of Mariupol are leaving without documents, without work books, without the possibility of getting fired or closing FOP, because we haven't had a register for a very long time. They go into unemployment to get some money. They left with nothing. And they probably don't have anywhere to go, their buildings, their homes, their apartments are already burned or destroyed by Orcs. And we can't put them on this unemployment bill right now, because the procedure is that you have to be freed, have a workbook, go through a lot of hell to register for unemployment. And this law, I thank you for it, it simplifies this procedure so that they can literally get unemployment benefits in a day. This could be 9,000 860 dollars right now. That's the money they're going to live for. So I ask you very much, we often do politics here, but for the sake of the people who have left Mariupol, for the people who are leaving other cities who, unfortunately, are now suffering and suffering from the military aggression of Orcs, let's not talk about this law, let's adopt it. A great number of people are waiting for him and are waiting for us to make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u27	Thank you. Alexander Alexandrovich Network, please. Network Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u29	Trelyak's Galina Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u30	Thank you for your word and thank you to the previous speaker for supporting this bill. This bill is not political. The committee recommended that this bill be adopted on the basis of the committee's rights and generally because it also applies to VPOs, which are today unemployed and have no documents, precisely because the Unemployment Fund and the State Employment Centre were granted an additional billion dollars two weeks ago because they have a deficit, and we have to give these people support in this wartime. The bill only works in wartime. And that's why there's a misunderstanding of factions who don't want to adopt this bill today as a whole. The bill, in addition to everything else, foresees unemployment assistance that has been assigned since the first day of the citizen’s appeal to gain unemployment status. This assistance is being paid without a personal visit to the State Employment Center. This bill reminds me that it operates within the framework of social insurance, and today there is not enough part of a single social contribution to compensate for everything. That's why the budget of this fund grants this right to the Cabinet of Ministers to approve, and as I said before, the Cabinet has funded this bill for billions of dollars. This funding will also be needed in the future. I have a big request to the audience to listen to the view of the committee, where this bill has been very carefully considered, and this bill has been adopted today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u31	Galina Mikolayevna, we put it that way. Galina Mikolayevna, we base it on the whole as well. That's the way it's done. All right, all right. You see, they listened to you. Dear colleagues, please, Honcharenko Alexiyyyovich, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u32	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, we need to adopt this bill urgently, there's not even any conversation here as soon as possible, because millions of people in Ukraine today need this decision, millions of people. We're all looking at you now, we've got all the wounds in our hearts for what's going on in Mariupola on Austala, where our heroes today continue to defend it, even though Putin says he took something. We know that he can take something -- he won't even be able to take something and hold it. So, of course, he didn't take anything. But millions of people, including those people who worked on Austali right now, are forced to flee, and they have to get some help from the state. And when they come to Social Security, when they want to form their unemployment assistance, they're told, and show them the document that you're free. The document from "Austals" will they show or where it's all burned up, where there's nothing? And that's why our document is the horror that's happening in the country, and that's why we need to urgently adopt this law for hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who can go and apply and get unemployment assistance from the time they apply. Because for many, unfortunately, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians today, this is the only way to survive. For those Jews who did not leave the country, for those who believe that they will return to normal life, to their work. But today they need this support. So, my friends, we're voting. There's nothing to argue about. There are no parties and no politics, there is one: helping millions of Ukrainians. We make this decision, we give them access to unemployment assistance so they can get everything ready and get the money now. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u33	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich Šufrić, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Mr. Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u35	Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This law that we are currently considering, 7275, is extremely important, and life, especially life under military conditions, tells us that such a law needs to be voted on and debated on this bill is simply not necessary. Many people today face these challenges, not only in Ukraine but also in the ranks of the armed forces, who have lost their jobs in connection with war. Because today, in the area’s defense, many people who are unemployed or who have lost their jobs because of the temporary occupation of the territory where they used to live. And for such people, this law is very much needed today. So our group will vote in favour of this law. And I'm asking the National MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Please, from Fatherland, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u38	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In fact, the "Paternity" team supports this bill. What is more, he suggests, as at the committee meeting, that it be adopted on a basis and in general. A discussion took place at the committee meeting. And I thank the head and members of the committee for taking into account the position of Julia Timoshenko, who made specific proposals for the improvement of this bill. In fact, he solves all the problems faced by temporarily displaced persons in the state. Today, under this bill, if approved, they do not even need to appear personally at the centres of employment; they will actually register. All bureaucratic procedures are simplified to the maximum. And this is really a bill that will serve to support these people. And almost 10,000 maximum aid. We vote in favour, and we want those people to get back to their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, also Shahov, this will be final today's word for this bill. And I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u40	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues like Mariupol also like Luhansk are equal to the land of our enemies. Today there are no temporary displaced persons, today there are people -- refugees who are homeless and who live practically in other parts of our country, and they've gone somewhere to their distant relatives, maybe abroad. Our task today is to adopt this bill, and to enable people to immediately build housing, to raise all, maybe summer camps, and also to allow people to settle down so that people don't get in trouble today in a one-room apartment in Lviv, in the Hmelnick, in Volina and so on. Our job is to protect the people that came out of the bombs today, practically, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. It's a really important bill. And I'm proposing to adopt the bill of 7275 as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on certain matters of employment and compulsory state-of-the-art unemployment insurance (7275). Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:57]] For 296 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on. Next bill, 7227. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications to improve the efficiency of electronic communications providers and/or military services. I propose to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:42]] For 270. Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:02:02]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I remember the only thing that this bill wanted to do was the EC. Anyone else want to step out of this bill? Ah, the Servant of the People. Well, then, write it down: two for, two for, no, friends. The word is given to Nagaev Artem Sergiyovich, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Stepi Sergei. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u43	Sergey Stepa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u44	The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications are very necessary and appropriate, especially in terms of the state of emergency and war that is now being introduced in our country. The adoption of this bill will ensure the continued functioning of the electronic communications and communications networks of our nation as a whole in a state of war and avoid interference with it. So please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u47	Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, this bill is needed, and no one is arguing that it should be accepted. But I would very much like to draw your attention to the fact that it's written in such a way that, well, there is an opportunity to abuse some of the language. Dear colleagues, let's still listen to each other, I'm asking for your attention not so often. You can't ask attention, can you? The Russian warship went to x.! That's better, huh? Oh, finally there's attention. All of it. Thank you very much. So, colleagues, I ask you once again on the first reading of this bill, of course, you can support it. Of course we won't. Because what's written there makes it possible to misuse frequencies, according to our lawyers. Because when three channels are turned off and there's no explanation at all, we're going to look at every absolute norm so that it's not used in this direction. Because if we're just being shut down by voluntary means today, it's not the way for a country to answer the question of a surveyor in the European Union. In the European Union, channels are not turned off without any explanation, none at all. So I'm asking the committee very much, we're working normally, we're in dialogue, but we're still going to take our amendments into account in the second reading, and we're going to make it clear that it's not going to apply, these norms that are going to be introduced in the bill, in television and in radio. It's very easy to do that. And once again, let's hear each other, because now is the time, when it is worth all those who speak, to listen carefully, respecting everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt and shorten the proposal for a second reading bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Communications to improve the efficiency of electronic communications providers and/or military services (project registration number 7227). Ready to vote? So we're going to use the base and we're going to cut the lines. You know what I mean? Please, 7227. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:34]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next Bill 7264. Yes, 7264, this is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on uninterrupted production and supply of agricultural products during wartime. Dear colleagues, he needs to vote for inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies are asked to vote in favour of inclusion in the agenda, and we need 226 votes. [[13:07:20]] For 293 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:07:41]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I remember that at least the "Fatherland" faction wanted to speak. Anyone else want to make a statement on this? No one else wants to. Then who's from the Fatherland faction? Two minutes. Dear colleagues! No discussion, huh? We'll vote then. Dear colleagues, thank you for your constructive work. So I'm proposing to take the basis of the Committee's proposals and shortening the deadlines for proposals, amendments and preparation for second reading of Bill 7264. This is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on uninterrupted production and supply of agricultural products during wartime. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:50]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill, 7289, is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of land relations regulation under military conditions. We have to vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda of the day session, we need 226 votes. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:25]] For 246 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:09:47]] For 248 Decision taken. I also remember that the "Fatherland" faction asked for this and "European Solidarity". Then let's write two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, at first glance, the bill looks almost perfect because it simplifies the granting of land for the needs of the national economy, the agricultural sector and Ukrainian citizens at the time of the war. But as always, without a "but" it didn't work out. And I can tell you that the remarks here are really a lot, and they're pretty critical, regardless of what they say is a bill of good. First. There is no defined mechanism for changing the target destination of land where the evacuated enterprises are located after the end or the end of the war. And this is a very important moment, because enterprises may not be evacuated there for a month or two, they're evacuated for a long time. The other one. Just think about what I'm saying right now. It follows from the content of the changes that the right to rent without the land trade of the state and municipal property is granted only to individuals and enterprises — attention! – identified in a separate list according to a special joint decision of the administrations of the areas from which and to which companies are evacuated from the zone of combat. So you have to go to the administration for a gift. But more appropriate, frankly, it would be to give land leases without land trading to place production capacity to all enterprises of any form of property from combat zones and to set up a mechanism for acquiring such a right, for example, to make a decision based on the claim already made, because we have to make it easier, rather than sorry, to make the "free cash" in administrations that will: we will give it -- we will not give it. And I propose, frankly, not to support this bill now, until these critical remarks are corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the bill requires serious work, of course, because it is indeed discriminatory for various forms of business. But I want to point out that we don't have a whole concept of moving and starting our economy in time of war. We're transporting some of the enterprises that are still in the war zone that remain in the occupation area. For example, some businesses and bookstores that print our textbooks for our children at school stayed in Kharkiv, and now we don't know if we're going to have textbooks or not. Why does the state not provide for both private and state enterprises that are strategic? It's not just metallurgical combinations or combinations that produce military technology, military enterprises, but also bookstores and everything we need to ensure normal life in a war that unfortunately doesn't last a month or two, and maybe will continue for a few months. So, honourable colleagues, we urge that both this and other bills be more systematic, more sophisticated, we help with these rights. But, dear fellows, we need to think about the military economy not for 30 days, not 20 days, but at least by the end of this year, understanding which enterprises urgently need to be evacuated, transported, launched, created jobs there, including for internally displaced persons, and live and work in this regime. It's not for one day or one month, I'm afraid. So let's think about it in a complex way. So far it's working, unfortunately, in manual mode, and more faithfully, it's not working. So this is one of the bills that needs to be worked out, but let's still think about how we're going to live on in a war economy that unfortunately is. a strategy that is missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u53	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And, dear fellows, after that, let's go to the polls, the national MPs, take your seats. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. I had a hard time asking you. You didn't ask? Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Let's move on to decision-making, dear colleagues, and move on to decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the shortening of the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and the preparation for the second reading of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of land relations regulation in terms of the state of war (project registration number 7289). Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[13:15:21]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions. The next bill, 7282, is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the first-line measures to reform the area of urban activity. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda of the session. [[13:16:02]] For 301 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:16:21]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as agreed, only discussion: two in favour, two in favour, against, please. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, faction of the Political Party of Fatherland, please. Kucherenko, please, Yuri Alexiovich. Turn on Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u54	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, dear friends, dear Ukrainians! Of course, the Fatherland faction, like everyone else, understands that we have a very powerful work to do with the restoration of destroyed cities, after the restoration of destroyed housing and non-residential buildings, after the restoration of industry. And we certainly have to do everything we can to do it as quickly as possible. But what scares us is this bill. Well, first of all, the terms of his discussion. On page 37, a very simple bill, which, in effect, is proposed in a few days without substantive professional discussion. We understand well that it is the turn of the builders, and that is not bad. We all know to a degree what builders are. We can see how they've woken up and can build everything around them. We understand how on land without permission, without public discussion, without agreeing with all interested parties to build everything possible. But let us still understand and not repeat the mistakes we have made in recent years. Unfortunately, in this law we see the interests of the builders, we see the interests of acquiring huge money that is already waiting, where millions, billions of aid, but we don't really want to do it: first -- without corruption, second -- to do it so that we can actually build new cities and restore them by modern standards not only for housing, but also for thermal supply schemes, water supply, infrastructure, and the main thing is to make sure that the local and state budget is filled. That's why we're going to abstain, but we're ready to work on this bill constructively with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u55	The word is given to the People's Deputy Marousek Oleg Romanovich, the "Serve of the People" faction, please. Marusjak Oleg Ivanovich. You've signed up, it shows.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u56	I didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u57	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The war will end, I am absolutely convinced that the efforts of our negotiating group will be successful, we will receive a peace treaty that will ensure that we continue to move forward, and we will need to rebuild the virtually destroyed Ukrainian cities. And this bill is specifically designed to simplify and prevent any abuse and to make the most of the potential of our builders, including the use of budget funds for the reconstruction of our cities, the possibility of building apartments, social facilities for our citizens. That's why our faction will support this bill. The group will vote in the first reading. And if there's a possibility, we'll support it as a whole, if there's such a proposal. Today we have to stand on the front lines of our nationality and think about how we will rebuild and rebuild our country. We vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u59	Please, next Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u61	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u62	Thank you. Colleagues, we've all seen with our own eyes the magnitude of the damage the country has experienced today. And obviously, we understand very well that there are urgent issues that need an immediate solution in order to provide for the needs of those without homes in order to provide for the needs of individual businesses that have been forced to move. That is why we understand and support the initiation of a separate program to restore population. At the same time, however, we cannot agree that under the cover of military time, this bill proposes to permanently abolish part of transparent construction procedures and requirements. So I hope that you, colleagues, understand that after the blood and suffering of the Ukrainian people we have no right to allow any doubt about the efficient use of the funds that will be used to restore Ukraine. And that's why our task with you as deputies is to ensure that transparent procedures are available, to ensure that parliamentary accountability is available to executive authorities. So only in our first reading will we be prepared to support this bill. But if all efforts under the cover of war to change urban norms will not forever be changed in this bill, we will not support it in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. And please, also Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. And I ask the National Deputies to take their seats, we will move on to the decision-making process after the report by Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u64	First, taking advantage of the possibility of requesting a BSI first, other bodies to pay attention to some of the heads of the OTG, especially the frontal areas, because there are many questions that because of their actions we can't get enough positions. It's different. You know that law that has the only flaw, the only problem, God forbid we have enough money to put it all into practice and rebuild it. And we're going to have a lot of reconstruction and unfortunately for many people. But the main thing here, if there's even money, is not to rebuild the old. Don't rebuild old shrubs, old heat stations, boiler plants, have to build new ones. And I hope as soon as we win, we'll have both money and new technologies to build a new energy-efficient state. Thank you. In the first reading, a vote can be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Do You Want One? A kiss, a minute more, huh? It wasn't your group, was it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, it is clear that this bill is in time, because you and I understand that the work of each of you and of each community helps our defenders step by step to get closer to all the expected victory. And it will come, and very quickly. And clearly, then, in many communities, we're going to have to make huge investments in various construction companies, because there's going to be a lot to rebuild. It will also be necessary to complete and open objects in these communities, in these areas where there was no military action, in order for development to take place. So we have a lot of work to do. I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to take the basis of the proposal of the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of Article 116 of the Rules, and to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments for the second reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the first priority measures for the reform of urban activities (project No. 7282). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:14]] For 268. Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next bill, 7249. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of the definition of rent for natural gas extraction for periods of military, state of emergency. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of this bill, 7249. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:56]] For 247 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:27:16]] For 233 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, as agreed, speak only to those who wish. Please write two in, two in, two in. Please, Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u68	Guys, please don't waste time. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u69	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, "The Fatherland" faction. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please. Please, Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear friends, I want to explain in a calm manner why, and I am personally co-author of this bill, and in his example to demonstrate which unfortunately we make mistakes with you for the initiative, understandably, unfortunately, the authority, and how we have to correct them over a certain period. I want to remind you that about a month and a half ago, in such an ecstasy of budgeting, we took a change to the Tax Code, thinking it would actually fill the budget. In addition, we introduced a new rent on gas and said, “Get and pay. ” Picked up this rent and everything. I want to explain to you that in the last few months, gas consumption has dropped about 50 percent. So there's no consumption. Gas is extracted but not sold. Some companies, both private and public, simply preserve their wells and stop their gas production because, according to what we took a month and a half ago, they have to pay their rent immediately. The bill proposes that this situation be corrected immediately and that the rent be paid, but the rent is paid only after implementation. This part of the company, where this applies to both NAC Naftogaz and private companies, is now injecting the extracted gas into the repository. So let's give them the opportunity to pay their rent when the realisation is when the gas is consumed. And the last. Let me tell you a secret. The initiator of this bill is NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. You know my personal attitude towards this monopolistic company and the attitude of our faction, but this is a case where we unfortunately need to correct our mistakes and not let us fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u71	Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I'm actually very surprised by the noise in the hall and the indifference of our colleagues to the consideration of draft laws essentially because when we say that the Supreme Council is not taking part in making decisions right now, that's exactly what we're doing when we're in the hall, but we're not listening to what we're talking about, which means that we're not taking decisions that are not fully balanced. It's about this bill. There's actually an active norm, and we've been hearing from our leaders, from the President, from the government that taxpayers have the right to pay as much as they have the money. This is true of the gas companies. I mean, I'd like everyone to hear that, in view of the fact that we're not going to say right now that it's March 15th that the amendments to the Tax Code, which set the differentiated tax rate on gas rent, that we're not going to say if the formula and the tax base on rent are correct, we need to talk about that taxpayers have the right to pay only taxes today in the amount of money they have. If now the gas, almost 50 percent of the gas, is not consumed by industrial enterprises and is in excess of our manufacturing companies, then let them pay as much as they can, that is, how much money they have received from implementation. When you propose this norm, you enter the immaculateness of the sums that will be paid in the future when all gases will sell this gas. And one more question. Where is the country's energy security solution? Why didn't the profile committee take this opportunity right now and offer all the mining companies that have gas surpluses to buy this gas for the population at a price.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u73	The word is given to Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u75	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u76	First of all, I would like to thank all taxpayers who have now paid their taxes even in such a difficult time. Some thanks to those who paid in advance. And individual gratitude, including to our fiscal authorities, who at times were at great risk in dangerous situations for themselves and their families, remained in place and carried out their duties. Thank you for this, for having the money to buy more bullets and more protection for our boys and girls on the front that are protecting us. It's different. This bill can be voted on. It's very simple to explain what he's talking about. It's about you being taxed for the gas you sold, not the gas you extracted. Maybe in peacetime it would be allogeneic, but now it's necessary, because that's the structure. This bill should definitely be voted on only the basis. On the committee, I think all the factions had their comments, which we're going to add to the second reading so that, on the one hand, there's no abuse on the part of business, but on the other hand, there's fair taxation. And the last. Once again, using the opportunity, I'm talking to all of our entrepreneurs, those who can work now, work, you're the back of our front now. If you can pay your salary, pay if you can export, do it. Don't let your conscience bother you that you're not in a terrorist situation right now or in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, if the state needs you, it'll call you. But please restore our economy, because with a strong economy, we're going to fail Putin's master plan, because we don't have enough power, we're going to have enough, but Russia doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Please, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich of the Servant of the People, and then we move on to the decision-making process. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome the Clean Thursday and the restoration of our political life, with all its decorations and shortcomings, such as this law. The discussion, I think, is completely unnecessary. We made the right decision with you a month ago to raise the rent on gas from the richest gas companies in Ukraine. We now have a ban on the export of this gas to Europe. And that's why we give these companies the opportunity to pay their rent on real estate, not profit. It's an absolutely logical and correct bill for the first reading that we're going to work on reading the second. And what I'm saying is that today, as far as taxpayers and taxpayers are concerned, paying taxes is a priority. Because if the army doesn't get the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to take the basis of the Committee's proposals and shortening the deadlines for proposals and amendments and preparing for the second reading of Bill 7249. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of the definition of rent for natural gas extraction for periods of military, state of emergency. Project registration number 7249 again. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:05]] For 287 Decision taken. Let's move on. Next bill. By factions, please show me. Next, 7255. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to clarify the powers of civil protection subjects and to implement international humanitarian law in the area of civil protection. First, it is necessary to vote on the inclusion of this bill, 7255, in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:51]] For 298 Decision taken. I also ask you to vote and consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:38:13]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed to speak only to those who wish to speak. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u80	Thank you. A great request to all: Let us now vote, the time is coming. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u81	Thank you. The word is Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u82	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u83	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will be the first to support this law. What points do we have? First of all, there are terminal flaws. For example, the term "war conflict" is wrong because other laws and conventions use "armed conflict" or "aggression". Nor do we agree that the government's functions for the search for missing persons and missing persons should be limited only to the moment of the end of the war conflict, because these can only be temporary tasks, and this moment can be changed. Moreover, if the government’s mandate to use marks for marking special objects is to be extended, it is not only the Geneva Convention, for there is also a convention to improve the fate of prisoners and patients, a convention to protect cultural values in the event of armed conflict. And of course, in such a case, appropriate markings on houses, on places where there are cultural values must be kept. We see, including the consequences of the absence of such indications in the fate of our museums that were destroyed by the Russian Nazis during this great armed aggression. So, as I said before, in general, we're going to support this project in the first reading and we're going to make appropriate amendments to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u85	The word is given to the national deputy, Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this bill in the first reading, working it out for the second. But I want to point out that we need to look at the concept of civil protection at all, because, let's just say, we weren't ready to protect civilians until the beginning of the war. We treated everything casually, beginning with shelters and ending up evacuating people. So now, with such bitter experience and continuing to have such bitter experience, we need to make a concept of civil protection, including international standards based on international norms, and start implementing, and, without waiting for the end of the war, start doing everything from the legislative base, the search for missing persons, the speeding up of the process of issuing death certificates, because a large number of cities and regions, when there are a large number of deaths. Sadly, we cannot cope, so people and relatives have been waiting for months to get and bury their loved ones. And as we complete the construction of shelters, the construction of schools, and much more to do in order to always be ready and live peacefully next door to a mindless neighbor who, unfortunately, will not go anywhere even after the end of the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, the "Fatherland" faction. And then we move on to the vote, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Head. Here some colleagues call for a faster vote. You have already stressed that in two weeks we are making changes to laws that we have stressed quickly. Let us work better on the laws that are being passed. The Fatherland faction fully supports the concept of civil protection and most of the law that is being enacted and being considered. However, the bill also has a number of flaws. In particular, the authorities of local self-government, particularly the rural, village councils, to their exclusive, I emphasize this, exclusive competence, is the elimination of the consequences of emergencies. Well, imagine what the rural, village council's budget will be for eliminating the consequences, let's say, floods or big fires. Of course, it should be, if this is passed on to local authorities, money should go according to the Charter of Local Self - Rule. That is, the key story is not just to transfer some authority to local budgets, but to finance the implementation of these powers. Because otherwise it's an empty sound, and there's nothing good about it. So the "Paternity" faction in the second reading will require changes in this part and at least show those sources of funding for local self-governance that would ensure that the emergency response function, such as large fires, floods, epidemics, episodes, etc. If this is not done in the second reading, "Paternity" will obviously not support this bill, like most local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of this project. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to the committee to adopt and shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments and the preparation for the second reading of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to clarify the powers of civil protection entities and the implementation of international humanitarian law in the area of civil protection (project No. 7255). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:51]] For 292 Decision taken. The next bill, 7191, is a draft law on the characteristics of the privatization of state property under military conditions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour. I propose to vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda of the session. [[13:45:30.]] For 232 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:46:01]] For 219 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed that those who wanted to speak would speak. Yeah? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u90	Western Germany, Japan, Korea, Israel, Italy, France, Great Britain are those countries that were rebuilt after the war. And they each had very different ways of making a successful country out of ruins. We will have our own successful course, but we need to look at the experiences of these countries. And there were two things in common in every country, every one of them did it. First. This is the market of the earth, which, thank God, we have already made. And the second is privatization. We have a huge number of businesses that we don't need. And we have a huge number of entrepreneurs who are now leaving their homes looking for a place. They're looking for where to rebuild their business, create jobs, repay taxes and pay wages. And we have now, at last, perhaps a war in this, and it will help us, to move away from the Soviets, to conclude that the state is not exactly an effective manager and to hand these premises over to our entrepreneurs. That's why we're going to support this bill in the first reading. Yeah, he's got a huge number of notes. I've also read the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Yes, it has to be copied in many cases, and my colleagues who are represented on the committees, I'm sure, and yours will do it for the second reading. Not the most complicated thing. But what we have to do is accelerate privatization. Now every penny of investment in our country is possible, and we have to fight for it. We have to do less bureaucracy without corruption. So once again, this bill is supported only in the first reading and I ask for the same decision to be made by other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u91	Please, Mokchan Aleksei Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This bill on privatization during a state of war. Why did such a bill arise? What's it for? Because a large number of businesses today are forced to flee their permanent residences and seek refuge in other areas of Kharkishte, Sumsten, Chernigovishte, Donetskina, and many other cities, they need locations. The state has about 3.5 thousand enterprises. More than a thousand can be used by these enterprises that are now being relocating, or privatized. What do we do with this bill? We suggest speeding up the privatization process during the war. Today, all procedures related to the Privatization Act take more than 100 days to privatize an object. So the company will have to wait for the state to acquire unnecessary property, more than 100 days, more than three months. We suggest we cut all these terms, clean up the extra procedures and cut them down to 25 days. Privatization now involves five stages. The first is to include an object in the privatisation list. The second is the decision to privatise and transfer from the administration to the holding fund. The third is preparations for privatization. The fourth is the exhibition and the auction. And the fifth is to make a deal with the winner. These procedures now take at least 100 days. We suggest that we cut to 25 days so that businesses in difficult situations today can find a new place and continue to work, and we can save them as jobs and as owners. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Big Man. Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u94	Alexei Hotcharenko. Guys, come on, let's be adults. We're looking at a bill that says the first goal: speeding up the privatization of state property, that's the purpose of the bill, during the state of war. Do we seriously believe that this is our main task? Friends, this is Clean Thursday, let's keep your hands clean. This is not the time to privatize in principle into the state of war that we have today. Actually, I want to talk to our law enforcement officers. Please don't just evacuate, because someone was evacuating somewhere, and then they couldn't find it for a long time. You have your job front. Today there is a report that a humanitarian woman is being looted somewhere, and there is no help available. War is not a indulgence for someone to take advantage of, on the contrary, of the moment when it is necessary to keep their hands as clean as possible and watch over it. So, my friends, let's not speed up privatization, but strengthen state control over every single piece that citizens are collecting today, lastly cutting off for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, giving everything we need in order for the Ukrainian Armed Forces to do so. You know, on the 23rd of February, the last day before the invasion, from this rostrum speaking out, then I turned to these soldiers of the Russian army: welcome to hell. And so it turned out that it was good to welcome you to hell. And now we're telling you, you've added possibilities to the Ukrainian army today, it's going to destroy you. And if someone's sending you to a war on Donbas right now, you know, you can go to Donbas and you can never get out of there again. So draw conclusions from the days that have passed. And if you don't want to go to hell, go home while there's legs and don't go to the sack. Thank you. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u95	Heroic glory! Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you about privatization in the hall. Please tell me, are you ready during the war, when almost no one goes to Ukraine, when the prices are real for any object does not exist, to sell your house, for example, or your business sell during the war for zero money and go straight with your bare hands and bare pockets, leaving everything you had before the war? If you do not do so in your own way, you might ask: What are you allowing this to happen to the State? You don't realize that today, unfortunately, until the war is over, no foreign investors will come to Ukraine to invest? That's the first one. The other one. Have you read the list of objects other than the big privatisations that are about to be sold? I quote exactly what the law says: subjects of education go to privatization, health care, culture, physical culture, sports, tourism, art, etc. I want to ask. How do you imagine this privatization if there's no real investors if there's no real competition? If you want to put education, health care, you're not going to do anything again, you're not going to rebuild the country, you're going to sell the property of Ukraine for nothing right now. I don't think it's in time. Let us all win together first, and then build a country transparently, without corruption, without handing over property to our people. I ask everyone to vote against this law. This is wrong, unfair, and against the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let us move on to making decisions. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to the committee to adopt the basis, to shorten the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparation for second reading, the draft Law on State Property Privatization in War Conditions (project registration number 7191). Ready to make a decision? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:55:42]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I then make the suggestion to correct, yes, to send for the re-reading of the first reading. Dear colleagues, send this bill to read again. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:56:18]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Next, dear colleagues. I propose that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Honorable colleagues, the subject, should work hard to make sure that the preparation is simple, not disruptive. I propose that this bill be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:56:57]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The bill is considered to be rejected. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next 7280. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the features of the application of anti-corruption legislation. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session. People's deputies are requested to vote 7,280 in the agenda of the day session. Please. [[13:57:44]] For 275 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:58:05]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we had a deal, just a discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in. Eugenius Bragar, please, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u98	Guys, we're not wasting time, we're going to vote, it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u99	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich, "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u100	It's very important to save time and understand what we're voting for, because if we don't know what we're voting for, we're going to waste time indefinitely. In short, it is a removal of the responsibility for volunteering and the removal of the responsibility of the need to declare if he has received assets or services as a result of the evacuation. That's what's meant to support people. It's an initiative that's worked together with a committee with the National Anti-Corruption Agency. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Head. No, it's not volunteering. No, it's not about taking responsibility for anything else. This is actually a consideration of the point issue of those who have broken the law and may have done so for a corrupt purpose. That's what this law is about. But in fact, we have a much broader problem. Colleagues, we have a million declarants today, at least that's what they call it. We have several million people left for the territory of Ukraine, including declarants, including members of the family of declarants. We have a much broader problem that we will have to solve sooner or later. We have questions that in many cases make it impossible to declare the year before and this year. We should think about how to get out of this situation, let's say those declarants who lived in Butchi, who lost all the documentation, those declarants who live in Kharkiv, in Herson, who have neither been able to fill out the declaration this year, nor prepare proper documents to submit the declaration in the previous year. Once again, it's not just about the declarants, it's about the members of their families. So maybe let's think about a wider circle of problems. I want to say that the Fatherland Party and the Fatherland faction were among those who introduced this declaration, and we are supporters of the declaration. But today the situation is in such a way that these problems need to be solved in a complex, not a dot, way more where there is encroachment on certain corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please take your seats. Yours, Nestor Ivanovich, not yours. Take your seats and get ready for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a proposal based on the Committee's proposals and shortening the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and preparing for a second reading on the draft amendment to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the features of anti-corruption legislation in the field of martial law (project No. 7280). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[2:02:34]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, these were the first readings, still several laws in the second reading. The first bill, 5847, is the second reading. Please don't part, there's only one amendment of Nestor Ivanovich. If he doesn't insist, I'll bet. Nestor Ivanovich, are you not insisting on your amendment to this bill? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, then I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of powers between the central executive authority that ensures the formation of civil protection policy and the central executive authority that implements civil protection policy (project No. 5847). Dear colleagues, second reading, in general, with the necessary technical legal rights. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:03:48]] For 274 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill, 6416, is the second reading. The draft Act amending section X, paragraph 3, of the Act on Public Procurement, on the purchase of medical supplies, medical devices and aids to them by a person authorized to purchase in the field of health care and on the involvement of specialised purchasing organisations. This is the second reading, 6416. There are a few amendments that have been rejected, and I, as far as I know, planned to deal with the amendments that are counted, yes. Let's go first for those who are biased. Please take your seat. I invite a representative of the committee. Now I'm going to start with the ones that are biased. Will anyone insist on his rejected ones? Yeah, let's see. Dear colleagues, Kulinich. Don't insist. Kulinich. Don't insist. Raducci, 4th Amendment. Don't insist. Kulinich, 5th Amendment. Don't insist. Kulinich, 8th Amendment. Don't insist. Kulinich, 9th Amendment. Don't insist. Raducci, 10th. Don't insist. 11th Amendment, Kulinich. Don't insist. 12th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 13th, Raducci. Don't insist. 15th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 16th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 18th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 19th, Kulinich. Don't insist. These are the amendments that have been rejected. At the same time, a letter came from the "Fatherland" faction that they wanted to make five amendments for confirmation, but by agreement with Julia Volodymyrna, four minutes and we don't put on confirmation. Please, Julia Volodymyr, play, please. Oh, you want out of the rostrum, come on, on the rostrum. Then let's take four minutes and get to the vote. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, this is a very important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain a little bit. In the previous government, when Ulyana Suprun was in charge of the minister of health, the entire system of public medicine was broken. What happened? What's happened is that it's actually been decided that 6 to 7 billion dollars a year are bought by international organizations. What started after that? First of all, we've always bought drugs in three months. Three months later, the Ministry of Health is buying drugs. When they changed the system the way Ulyana Suprun wanted, we have a subscription for all the drugs at the beginning of the year for 6-7 billion international structures and the supply of drugs in 18 months. Do you have any idea what that is? In addition, there is a study of the Accounting Chamber, about the size of what was clearly described as expired drugs, and there were not very high-quality drug supplies. And the main thing is, our companies that produce drugs were essentially dispossessed of government procurement. This House of Auditors wrote a specific proposal: To go to the purchasing method when the Ministry of Health purchases through tenders, contests, as it were, to buy drugs immediately, quickly, and including from a domestic manufacturer. When we wanted to prolong this old situation by Ulyana Suprun, we were certainly against it because our Ministry of Health had to purchase drugs in a sovereign and normal way at the best cost, including our domestic manufacturers. But for some reason, the year of the system of things imposed on us by the previous authorities arose. I don't understand why. I spoke to the minister of health personally, and I spoke with the committee manager. I've been told that, yes, they don't support it, it's wrong to prolong, but there's no way out. And we agreed that in the form of exclusion, and the Minister of Health agreed, only some vaccines will remain in purchase through international organizations, everything else will be purchased directly by our national system, taking into account all the findings of the Court of Auditors. We agreed, and after the agreement, there is once again a bill in which international organizations are prolonging their purchases for more than a year. Dear friends, I don't want to go to the House of Auditors right now, but I think that, especially during the war, we need to give our Ministry of Health the right to buy the drugs that we need, including our strong domestic producers, on a competitive basis, without paying over 6-7 billion dollars a year, and then we don't know who's using that money and how. I now have a proposal in such a way that this law does not support and return to those arrangements that were with the Minister of Health to leave only for some forms of vaccine – through international organizations and everything else – through our national structures. I think we're going to put a cross here on a lot of abuse. Support mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u105	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending section X, paragraph 3, of the Law on Public Procurement on the purchase of medical supplies, medical devices and aids to them by a person authorized to purchase in the field of health care and the involvement of specialised purchasing organisations (project registration number 6416). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:11:30.]] For 266 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill is 3688. This is a draft law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of State and Municipal Property Objects on the Transfer of Wholesale Assets to State Fire and Rescue Units (Parts) and Other Property of the Civil Protection Operations Service. This is the second reading, 3688. Dear colleagues, there are a small number of amendments. Who will insist on their amendments? No one will. No one's gonna do it again. Vote. Let's move on to making a decision, dear colleagues. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Rights on the Transfer of Wholesale Assets to State Fire and Rescue Units (Parties) and other assets of the Civil Protection Operations Service. Dear colleagues, this is Bill 3688. In the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:12:57]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we have another bill, a second reading. This is the final bill of 5388 today. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on labour regulation. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, there are a number of amendments. Let's go get some of them, shall we? Yeah, 1-a. Yvchenko. Don't insist. 2nd, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, why don't we make a deal, give it time for the show? Are we leaving for now? Okay. The 5th, the Sheepling. Don't insist. 6th, Burmich. Don't insist. 7th, Wacak. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I understand. But you're not the Sheepling, you're not the Burmitch, you're not the Watzak. Let's go, yeah. 8th, Kinsburg. Don't insist. We're on our way, Julia Volodymyrna. After the amendments, let's go. It's just not your correction. Where yours is, I'll tell you. 9th, Royal. Don't insist. 10th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 12th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 13th. Volenec. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, Puzichuk insists, sorry, yes. 12th, Puzichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u106	Dear Chairman! Andrew Puziychuk. Amendment number 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u107	18th. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u108	My dear colleagues, I propose that businesses, institutions and organizations, as well as individuals and entrepreneurs who use employment, at the expense of their own resources, can set up additional labour and economic conditions for workers compared to legislation. My amendment says that the employer can improve the working conditions if the company has such opportunities. Explain why the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u109	The committee's brief position, please, is dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I can't give the committee a brief position. I need a little more open. I'll process it. See, the field of labour regulation, it's specific. And we have social dialogue in the form of employers, unions and states. I want to tell everyone that we have a balanced bill prepared for the second reading. So completely all the sides of the social dialogue have agreed to the proposals that the committee has proposed. So I'd like everyone to take this into account, and those adjustments that were rejected, that we would reject, and those that supported us. Because this question is more related to the relationship between trade unions, between employers. It's a question of working relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 18th Amendment of Puzichuk. The committee turned her down. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:16:43]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 22. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u112	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, my amendment that an enterprise can materially encourage medical, child, cultural and educational, educational and sports workers, public nutrition organizations and organizations that serve the labour community and are not part of it. Explain why you are against conditions that improve the status of doctors, teachers, and sports workers. Well, just what's the point if the country is living in difficult conditions today? There's a very large number of internally displaced persons and the task of the state is to support today, not make it worse for hired workers. Well, that's what the president says. That's what the government's working on. And in fact, you're making people worse by this bill. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u113	I'm betting on the 18th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:18]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, 16th, is partially accounted for. Please take full account. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, in fact, what we're talking about here. During the war, and not only during the war, the Labour Code seriously oppresses the rights of working people. In fact, it's a law that the Supreme Council didn't support in the war, because there's virtually all the work done by the unions that protected the working man now in the face of war. Well, tell me, why do this? Why go now, in fact, to those forms and methods of working between an employer and a working person who are very much reducing human rights today? We have no right to do that. What are short - term contracts that essentially deprive a person of the right to work long - term? That's why we're announcing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 16th Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko It is part of the committee, but the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:56]] For-88 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. The following amendment 27. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, all previous meetings of the Supreme Council, all factions supported the bill, where consensus was reached. There's a request for you, let's take this bill off the table, send it back to a second reading and work it out in such a way that it really responds to the needs of citizens, that it really protects workers who work on a permanent basis today, through short-term contracts, because our task today as a parliament is to protect and promote employers, to promote workers, to help create jobs. And it is our duty to care for people at such a difficult time. Today, a large number of businesses do not work, people do not have a job, they do not have a salary. And instead of improving their conditions, you're trying to make them worse by this bill. My amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u117	Thank you. 27. Amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:35]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 33, Volinec. We agreed, five minutes for the show, and you're making 27 of your amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u118	Mr. Head, I'd like to go to the rostrum. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u119	Look, it can't be that way. Behind the rostrum is the person who reports the answers, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u120	One day it's not very convenient, I'm speaking behind my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u121	And I'll ask my colleagues to take their seats. I can see and hear you very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u122	Very important things.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u124	Mr. Head, I have an ironclad argument why this bill cannot be voted on. The International Labour Organization, as well as the International Confederation of Trades, have twice addressed President Zelensky, as the Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal, asking you not to enact laws like this 5388. The thing is, in Ukraine, it's now focused on changing labour legislation and a whole bunch of other laws, that's more than 30 of them. The point is that holes are being drilled into active labour legislation. And so in those letters, Mr. Speaker, personally to you, you remember these letters, we've talked to you about this more than once, and it's explained that in Ukraine, because of these attempts, the European Union directives are being violated. Colleagues, please listen! It's 18.5 million people who are hired, Ukrainians who have to feel protected. Thus, in this case, when such amendments violate European Union directives, when Ukraine fills in the questionnaire in an attempt to join the European Union, Ukraine itself is closing the way for entry into the European Union. The European Parliament, the European Parliament, the International Labour Organization are constantly trying to help Ukraine adapt the labour market in Ukraine to world standards. For example, the International Labour Organization has launched seven special drafts in Ukraine to draft bills that correspond to the International Labour Organization conventions and European standards. Now it's all been crossed out, and the committee didn't pay attention, both to employers and to the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm surprised at the next thing. The Minister’s office was more flexible when the Conciliation Board was working when the work commission was working. But representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, in particular the Ministry of Economics, took a very harsh position, as did Mrs. Tretyakov, head of the Committee on Social Policy. The question is why our authorities, our parliament, are trying to put Ukrainians into slavery, not just as employers, but as slaves to our people in general. See what is proposed in this bill. For example, military personnel or alternative staff members should be subject to a special check when they are released. That's what I'm talking about. The same is true of single women who have children under the age of 16 and who have children with disabilities under the age of 16. And now the next. They have to undergo the same test, the test term for young specialists, young workers, and displaced persons in wartime conditions, as well as workers, workers who are transferred from one enterprise to another. This, look what the situation is, I'll give you an example. Something uncomfortable for the employer and he wants to fire him. He announces the transfer to another enterprise in his system. (Please step back, colleague.) And the same worker has to undergo a special test. It's just to get a person out of work for no reason. Dear colleagues, with such a systematic change in labour legislation, we will not return from the border of refugees and those persons who need to return to the state. (And I'm asking you, colleagues, you're shutting me down, it's hard for me to speak.) Dear colleagues, respect our hired workers. We respect the Ukrainians. I'll say it again if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, each national MP has his or her place of employment and there are no deputies in which the job is in the aisle. Everyone has their own place to work, as the whole of Ukraine does. Please thank you for your position. Let's move on. 34 revisions. Cabachenko, please. Let's move on. Thank you. 35th, Eutusek. Let's move on. 36th. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u126	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk will announce.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u127	Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u128	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, well, the question is, should we consider such a bill during the military situation that we started in the first reading in peacetime? And my amendment is about a particular thing. Because for me, every bill on the social sphere should be for improvement. And in this case, the bill shortens the term contract for no more than five years. Dear colleagues, why are you restricting workers' rights? My amendment with Julia Timoshenko, number 36, refers to the very definition of cancelling the time limit of the contract for five years. And if the employer and the employee want more than they are now under existing legislation, why are you restricting it?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u129	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the 36th Amendment of National Deputys Timoshenko, Tsimbaluka, and Yvchenka, rejected it. Please identify and vote. [[14:29:23]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Thank you. 38th, Yvchenka. Don't insist. 39th. Puziczuk, please, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland. Colleagues, if you look at the world’s leading economies, including Japan, have a viable employment system. You're restricting workers' rights and employers' rights to this day, that's what my colleague Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, 5 years old, pointed out. My amendment is similar, if the employer and the employee want to make a contract of 10, 15, 20 years, the state shouldn't limit this right, it's a deterioration in the position of workers. And listen, this bill, it's going to work both against workers, against the economy, and against Ukraine's future. You have to think today about those bills that will improve people's status, those bills that will bring people back to the country, not force them to leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the 39th Amendment of the Puzichuk People’s Deputy, has been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:58]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Yeah, 40 revisions, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 41st, Makarov. Don't insist. Yeah, right now. 47th, Wacak. Don't insist. The only thing that's going to insist is the Fatherland faction. I understand, can I miss other colleagues? Yeah, well, then I only look at my colleagues at the Fatherland faction. 75th, Eutusek. Don't insist. Yes, 85th, Kabachenko. Don't insist. 89th, Eutusek. Don't insist. 93rd, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I would like you to pay attention to Michael Wolinz, who is part of the union of the world’s trade unions. You know that all the unions of each country, including international associations, do not give up any of the rights of a working person because their many years of work is precisely the result of the current Labour Code, which is supported by international trade unions. In Ukraine, before you passed this law, there was the best Labour Code in the world union. There is now a conclusion to this law of international trade unions. They're extremely negative, they're saying that the rights of working people are being significantly reduced here. Don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the 93rd Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko The committee's proposing a rejection. People's deputies, please identify and vote. [[14:33:32]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 94th, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u134	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, the Ukrainian Parliament, is still a place of discussion, and I would very much like to hear the position of representative of the profile committee. Mikola Volodymyrovich, this bill was prepared in prewar time. During war, there should be completely different rules governing labour legislation. And we are aware that we are now living in a very difficult time. Today we must show wisdom, postpone this bill, re-read it, and draft a bill that will protect, strengthen workers' rights during the war. Let us think and care for our people today, not in words, but in truth. Listen to the President's daily speeches, do what he says, support our citizens, support our workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u135	94. Puzichuk's correction. Aah! Please take the seat of the committee. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u136	The offer is to reject. With regard to regulation of working relationships in military times, we have adopted an appropriate law that regulates this specification, and we will make further changes to legislation that will take into account the specificity of regulation of working relationships in military times. With regard to the protection of workers' rights, I would like to reiterate once again that the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions has supported this bill. Similarly, the bill was supported by representatives of the International Labour Organization. So we're going to say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u137	Thank you. 94 revisions of Puziyczuk, it is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:51]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 96. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I completely agree with you. But, look, the bills, they have to be complex, well worked out, and one bill shouldn't conflict with another. And once again, this bill is a bill of prewar time, and it doesn't take into account the changes that we've adopted. He's violating rights today, well, respectable colleagues, well, hear the key thing: he's not protecting our employees. Tell us what our goal is. What's your goal? Here you are representing a committee today, many committee members opposed this bill, spoke in favour of having it re-readed. Explain to me, explain to your colleagues and our citizens why you are trying so hard today to pass this bill. Please answer: What is the purpose, what is the urgency?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I am voting for the 96th amendment of Puziyczuk. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:19]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, 100 revisions, Puzichuk. Mr. Andrew, why don't I give you some time? No, let's go to the repairs, yeah. 100 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, if we really want to save our time in such a difficult time, send the bill for a second reading. All factions will work and prepare a really good quality bill to which we will be proud, a bill that will protect our citizens. I don't understand, but Parliament is a place of discussion, and I wanted to hear the answer to my last question. What is the need to adopt this bill today? Just explain what the goal is if he does not improve the position of his employees if he does. Well, what's his purpose? What will he do to create new jobs? Will he improve the terms? Well, just explain the purpose we're trying to pursue. Well, why are you doing this? You argue, maybe we'll hear the argument from the profile committee representative and understand the motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u141	Please, then, if you please, reposition the committee. Commissioner of the committee, once again, the position of the committee, why it's necessary right now, because that's the third question to you from this point on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u142	Thank you for asking. See, the bill has been considered by the committee for four months. A huge number of working groups have been held, once again, with the participation of all representatives of social dialogue, including the largest, most important representative body in Ukraine, representing workers, is the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine. Every position of the bill is fully agreed with the representative body, as is agreed with employers. I'm asking you to reject the amendment. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u143	Thank you. I'll bet you 100 Puzichuk's amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:53]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 101st. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Michael Volintz, our colleague from the Fatherland faction, representing the Federation of Trades, the Federation of Mining. When you claim that this is agreed upon, it does not correspond to reality. You heard him personally during today's Federation meeting, you heard him speak. He says that neither European nor world federations support them, and the unions do not support these bills. Well, now show your colleagues written confirmation that this is supported. Please show the support of the Federation of Mining Workers. We don't see it. Where's the backup? You said one organization, and that's just what you said. Can you give us how your colleagues can confirm your words right now? Explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u145	101 Amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:41:20]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 102. Puzichuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u146	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, in my previous speech, I asked if the chairman could confirm his words, show where the confirmations and consents of the trade unions are. Mikhailo Jakovitch Wolintz says that trade unions do not support it. He clearly notes that neither the Ukrainians, the world’s, nor the European trade unions support it. And this bill will not meet European legislation. If we are going to the European Union, we should have balanced legislation that meets European standards. And that's not what this bill is about. Therefore, I ask the committee representative to give a solid answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u147	Mr. Andrew, look. Since you've asked me too, I'm very pleased, but there's a committee job, there's already a plenary room. These are all questions of availability and lack of support, I think that's the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, a moment. Since I have been approached, I too have the right to a replica. Do I not have the rights of a national MP? So I'm explaining that there's a committee level. But I'm giving one more minute to our colleagues, so let them explain. But all these questions can be solved at the committee level. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u148	During the consideration of the bill, an official representative of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions was present at each meeting. You can read the final session by supporting the decision in the minutes of the meeting. And likewise, if you ask the committee accordingly, I'm sure they'll give you the opportunity, and you'll probably want to see the support of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 102 amendments to the Puzichuk People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:53]] For-61 The solution. Copy that. Next amendment 110, Puzichuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'd like to hear the answer to a question I asked twice, I repeat it the third time. Please explain to my colleagues, to me, to society, the workers who need to adopt this bill today? He is not responding to today’s needs. Today, during the war, there should be completely different laws governing working relations during wartime. And hear the key again. Today, we need to think about how to improve the conditions of people who are unemployed today, without pay. Today, we should think about those businesses that have been destroyed or stopped. And this is not just in the cities where the fighting took place, but also in the city of Kiev, where the majority were.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u151	110 amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:24]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 120th, Puzichuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, unfortunately, we're back to practice, until wartime, when Parliament is not a place of discussion, but actually the realization of some unknown wish. But I really want to hear whose wish, whose purpose and what purpose you're trying to realize today, why you're making our employees worse. If your goal is to push people out of the country, more than 4 million people have left Ukraine today. And when they see such labor codes, the changes you make will be less and less likely to return to the country every day. Today Parliament must think and work on how to bring people back, how to create conditions for decent work guaranteed by the Constitution, and the right conditions of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u153	120 amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:47:01]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 126, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I'm going to try to explain to you the specific concepts that are changing in this law, and you're going to decide whether you're ready to support it or not. Prior to the adoption of this law, there is now a collective agreement on each enterprise, a collective agreement, where virtually all workers through trade unions make with owners, with the company's management a collective agreement: how many hours work, how many hours are fired, how much work are accepted, what benefits, how pay overtime hours and days. So this is the whole document. And when a person is hired, he enters the collective agreement system today and can protect his rights safely with the trade unions. This law annuls collective agreements and moves on to short-term individuals without any protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, 126th Amendment of People’s Deputy Timoshenko She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:36]] For-59 Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. That was 126. Next 144th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 148th, Eutusek. Don't insist. Demchenko was still coming. 153rd. I understand correctly whether you are. Please, Demchenko, 153rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u156	Sergey Demchenko, Dniprovsky district, Dnipropetrovsk district Colleagues, I'm going to quote some of the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. With a view to bringing the Code closer to the legislation of the Member States of the European Union, in particular the provisions of the EU Directive of 20 June 19 "On transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union", we believe that it would be appropriate to take into account the proposal of the Ukrainian national deputy Demchenka (amendment 153) concerning the obligation of the owner or authorized body to inform the worker of changes in the essential working conditions that do not entail a deterioration of working conditions, if possible, but not later than the date of the introduction of these changes. Colleagues, please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u157	153. Amendment of the Demchenka People's Demchenka People's Demchenka. The committee offered to reject her. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:26]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 155 revisions. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I'm continuing with the topic that I started now, this law puts a cross on collective agreements that deprives the employees of this enterprise of a colossal layer of rights, of possibilities, of all things that, in fact, 300 years have been created by trade unions, into individual contracts. What is an individual contract? He can be concluded at any time and not foresee anything that was envisaged by collective agreements. This directly contradicts the directives of the European Union. Today we are filling out special documents so that Ukraine can become a candidate for membership in the European Union. And against that background, we're taking the law upon the demand of those lobbyists who are stretching this law, who are directly violating it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, 155th Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:57]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, I'll ask you further, I have an international call.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u160	Please, 156th Volintz. Don't insist. 157th, Eutusek, please. Don't insist. 158th, Royal. Don't insist. 159th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 162nd. Please, Timoshenko. Please, Cymbaluk. Julia Volodymyr, please. Oh, Tsimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u161	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, let's actually give the order of the day after its formation. For two years, there is a bill to raise pensions for military personnel. Why don't you put it in the agenda? Next. I understand, Mr. Mikola, you're the leader of the task force, but in fact it would be better to wait for the Moscow victory and then see publicly with the invitation of all the representatives of the public this bill, and it would be a completely different opinion. I wonder how it could have been for all those who planned to vote in favour, how could we have predicted a trial term for young workers who had finished PTU? Now they don't have it. How do you predict a trial term for those released from military service? You make it a law to appoint those who are elected to the position of winners of the competition. Dear colleagues, read what you're voting on.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u162	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u163	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u164	Thank you. Please bet on the vote number 162. The committee's been rejected. Please vote. [[14:54:07]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Please, 168th Kabachenko. 173rd. 163. Oh, Puzichuk. It's counted. Please, Kabachenko, 168th. No, it's not. 169th, the Sheepling. Don't insist. Eutushka, 170th. Surkis, 174th. 177th, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u165	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikola Viktorovich, please explain, you heard Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, you heard your colleague Sergey Demchenka's speech that this bill is not in line with European legislation, it's not in line with European directives. During this week, Ukraine sent a questionnaire to join the European Union. You are today adopting laws that conflict with European legislation. Where are we going, to Europe, are we trying to take steps back? And we still haven't heard what the purpose of this bill is. For whom is it accepted? It's not for Ukrainian citizens, it's not for the Ukrainian economy. Two questions. Why are you trying to adopt a bill that is contrary to European standards? Give me an answer, explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u167	Once again, I want to confirm that this bill is fully in line with all international labour conventions, just as it corresponds to European Union directives. I would also like to propose to you the next time such bills are considered, to be present in person at least once during the working group to justify their position and to prove to colleagues that they are not in line with any of the European directives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u168	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 177 Puziichuk. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:57:11]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Please continue Puzichuk, 182nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikola Viktorovich, I fully support your offer and am ready to join the task force under two conditions. First condition. Put this bill back on second reading, and we'll work it out in working groups, taking into account the state of the war and the needs of our economy. That's the first one. The other one. Invite the people’s deputies to the meetings of the working groups. Everyone has SEDO, they have access, so invite us to work groups so that not only members of the committee can reason and explain their positions, but also your other colleagues, so invite them. Colleagues, please send this bill back to read again. Listen, we have to work on supporting the Ukrainian economy and supporting our workers. And what you're saying is that everyone's supporting, the Chief Science and Technology Administration is saying about.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u170	Thank you. Are you going to answer anything?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u171	The Edit Committee proposes to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u172	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 182 of the Puzijczuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:58:50]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 186. Yes, it's counted. 193. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u173	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, for today’s business, have vacation schedules, and employment contracts are determined by the number of additional vacation days between the company and the employees. By this bill you cancel the employer's ability to give extra days off, you're making things worse for the employees. That's the explanation, at this time, what's your goal? Now I really want to hear what you're trying to achieve with this bill, why do you want to make the situation of Ukrainian workers worse? Mikolo Viktorovich, please explain what the main purpose of this bill is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u174	Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u175	The situation of Ukrainian workers is not getting worse. The bill, I repeat, is balanced. And I would still suggest that the people's deputies be present at least once in the working groups in order to be able to argue in the room to prove their position. I insist that the basic work of the doppelganger does not take place in the hall, but in the course of the committee's consideration of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u176	Thank you. Please bet on the vote 193 Puziichuk. The committee's been rejected. [[15:01:14]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Please move on to 206. Ah, 204, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I just want you to live, not with emotion, but with just the specific things that are ruining this law. You know that today’s Labour Code clearly defines the mode of rest and work of working people. Today, the Labour Code provides for a guaranteed vacation. This Labour Code provides for the employer’s obligation to keep a schedule of vacations and not to disrupt the work force so that the worker is guaranteed to have his vacation and be able to rest. By this law you are ruining this order, freeing the employer from the obligation to keep a score of vacations and not to disrupt the work and rest regime. In fact, you leave a working person without a guaranteed vacation. Do not accept this law!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u178	Please, Mikola Viktorovich, will you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u179	Well, I take it that's a whole bill, not a specific bill? So this is 204 revisions we had? I suggest we take it back.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u180	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 204 of the people's deputies Timoshenko, Tsimbaluk, Yvchenko. The committee's been rejected. Please vote. [[15:03:00]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Eutushka, 210th. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Then we have 213, Puziyczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u181	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, there is one pattern in Parliament’s ninth convocation: Today a bill that makes people’s rights worse is actually adopted in the dark. There's no direct broadcast today, no journalists today. And, you know, it's very similar to the rain of 2020 when during COVID they passed a bill on the sale of Ukrainian land. These bills, they harm our unity, they harm the future of our country. And today you can't have Ukrainian workers behind you without cameras. People need to know how the MPs vote, who really stands for the rights of citizens, and who, in their words, including citizens, should know which one of the "ministers of the people" really supports the President, his initiatives, and who achieves something.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u182	Mikola Viktorovich, do you have any other words?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u183	I won't. The committee proposes to reject the 213.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, 213 amendments to the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:04:47]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 218. People's MP Puziyczuk's right, rejected by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u185	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikola Viktorovich, please comment on this bill of the Constitution of Ukraine. We all know that the laws, the laws, the laws must correspond to the Constitution. The Constitution states that bills cannot aggravate the status of citizens. By this bill, you are making the rights of Ukrainian workers significantly worse and more limited. So why are you trying to draft a bill that goes against the Ukrainian Constitution during the war? And this is the reason why the people's deputies should be brought before the Constitutional Court in order to repeal this bill as anti-constitutional. Explain, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u186	The bill does not in any way narrow down workers' rights and is drafted in such a way that it is fully consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. We're proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u187	Thank you, Mikola Viktorovich. Please put to the vote number 218 of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:06:21]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 224 of the People's Deputy of Puziychuk. Declined by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u188	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikola Viktorovich, I have a very big request to you, with great respect for you, for your expertise. But please argue with the general terms, general expressions. Now you're saying that the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in an official conclusion on the Supreme Council website, says that this bill is not in line with European directives, European legislation. You say it's the answer. Perhaps we need to find out who is right. Maybe you're really right, not the Chief Science and Research Authority. And maybe it's worth sending a bill for re-reading, re-editing it, and actually taking it out, and getting unanimous support in the hall, not sowing bickering and some controversy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u189	Unfortunately, within the limits of the rules, I can only provide answers within the limits of what we are currently looking at. I didn't hear anything on the right. I'm proposing that we turn it down and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u190	Please put to the vote number 224 of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote, 224. [[15:08:14]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Please, 226 People's Deputies of Puziychuk. She's been rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u191	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikola Viktorovich, please explain the next rule of this bill. Today, the Labour Code clearly states the reasons why an employer can release an employee. They walked away for no good reason. If this is a shortcut, the employee should be made known in advance, and the compensation should be paid when the reduction is made. The bill you're proposing nullifies these standards, and in fact, the employee's fate will depend not on Ukrainian legislation, but on the employer's mood. If the employer’s mood is very bad or someone does not like it, these workers will be released. And too much regret, the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council on behalf of Ukrainian citizens will not protect them. Explain these standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u192	Please, Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I urge you all to read the bills, the amendments you're making. Similarly, visit working groups, share in discussions. As far as your question is concerned. Similarly, the bill establishes clear cases where an employer can release an employee. Nothing in this regard changes. I suggest we take it back.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u194	Please bet on the vote of 226 People's Deputy Puziyczuk. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:10:13]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 232 seems to be it, doesn't it? 232nd People's Deputy Puziichuk. Oh, it's counted. 234th overturned. Please have a 234 right, People's Deputy Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u195	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikola Viktorovich, look, we're having a discussion with you right now, and our colleagues, including representatives of the majority, are joining this discussion. I understand that you are today a representative of the committee, you are not a representative of the majority. And tell me if this bill fits those presidential statements that we hear every day. Today, the president and the government are working on how to move businesses, how to start an economy, how to create jobs, and including how to take care of citizens. How does this bill contribute to the creation of employment priorities?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u196	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u197	Thank you for asking. I would like to draw your attention, in order for the discussion to take place, it is necessary for both sides of the discussion to have the subject of discussion. As far as the President's statement is concerned. I'm not a representative of the President, and I can't comment. I propose that we continue to discuss this in an expert way. This is a correction that we're proposing to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u198	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 234 of the people's representative of Puziyczuk. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:12:18]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 239 of the Puzichuk People's Deputy, rejected by the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u199	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. A colleague from the "Serial of the People" is coming up, and he's also beginning to hear the faction of Fatherland and understand the risks of this bill. A colleague says that today national MPs can be more useful to society, to citizens. We must work today for the benefit of Ukraine, for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. Let's send this bill to read again today and accept what will really protect citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u200	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u201	I don't even know how to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u202	239 Puziyczuk’s amendment, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:13:36]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 241 decree of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. 241st rejected by the committee. I'm missing, okay. 245th.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u203	Mikola Viktorovich, note what is happening today. This bill does not unite the Ukrainian Parliament. Unfortunately, not all colleagues were able to work on it, not all colleagues joined in the work, not all understood its contents and the negative risks it poses. Send the bill for second reading. We will. We'll work together, and we'll really draft a normal bill. Our speeches are designed to make you, colleagues, understand the essence of this bill, the negative that it will bring to Ukrainian society today. Don't split society, don't set people up against power.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u204	Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u205	I don't understand how colleagues who don't understand the content of the bill could have applied for it. It's kind of a nonsensus then. I'd like to say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u206	Please correct 245 of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. Declined by the committee. [[15:15:40.]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next. 251, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u207	I'm ready to take five minutes, and we'll give up the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u208	Thank you. Then we can go to the vote as a whole. Then I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall as soon as possible, because we have a lot of deputies out of the hall right now, studying the bomb shelters. Do you have time, Julia Volodymyr? Five minutes. To the rostrum or from the scene? Let's go to the rostrum and make it beautiful. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, you know, I have this feeling right now that some laws that are very important for a country that have a very big history of creating people's rights and freedoms in general, something that causes Parliament to split up, you know, like two football teams, someone is in pain of being accepted, someone is in pain of not being accepted, not understanding the essence of what's going on. That's the main thing. I just want to tell you one thing that I'd like to take into account when you vote. Trade unions worldwide work for about 300 years, 300 years of daily struggle for the rights of working people. Because if you leave the working man alone with the employer. Without severe restrictions on human rights, an employer who wants to make his profits the maximum, he will make the rights of a working person completely minimized, such that they are virtually depraved. And today you have the Labour Code, which has been an international expert who has worked for many years, and which predicts that an employer does not have a person as just a hired slave, that a person has a limited working day, that a person has a guaranteed vacation, that there is an exclusive limited list that can be released by a working person by an employer. And if the Labour Code is broken, it will mean that the release of a person will be prosecuted in court and that a person will remain at work. You realize that the document that you want to accept right now, it just cancels all the provisions of the Labour Code, which in any case guarantee minimum protection for a working man. A collective agreement is replaced by a short-term individual agreement that does not contain anything. For example, what caused the worker to lose his salary at an increased rate for more than 8 hours of work? Tell us, what has man done if he is not given a guaranteed leave as provided for in the Labour Code today? It's all paid to the employer. But as the last 300 years of the world have shown, trade unions are needed to limit employers' appetite for employment without any limits. You've been crossing this law for 300 years with the work of the unions of the world. I can tell you what was wrong with you, such as the military, who were released from service. Because they have a special order of admission to work, where they can throw it out at any time by what's called a term, called a test term. What did the military do to us? Today, there are no special things in the Labour Code that the employer can think of. And it's for the military that this exception is made that they won't get a job under a collective agreement, and for them, for some reason, it's a special dragon condition. What was wrong with single mothers who have children under the age of 16 who are also prescribed by this law for the admission of dragons to work? Are we stripping single moms of rights, of opportunities today? Why are we doing this? I just want to ask you to read this law. Of course, we will fight. We'll go as a team to the Constitutional Court. We'll get an expert on international trade unions and the European Union. We'll get rid of this nonsense. But why are we doing this during the war? I propose that this law be corrected for second reading. Take away everything that contradicts the directives of the European Union, the international conventions for the protection of the rights of working people, and adopt a document that we will not be ashamed of. Don't enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-04-21-m0.u210	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Let's go to the vote. Request to take your seats, return to the hall, who has not returned. Can we? I am betting on the second reading vote and, in general, on the necessary technical and legal rights, on the bill for registration number 5388 amending some Ukrainian legislation on labour deregulation. Please vote. [[15:22:50]] For-187 The decision is not taken. There is a suggestion to re-direct the second reading. I'm betting on the vote to refer to the second reading again. [[15:23:18]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions. And another vote, colleagues, don't split, please. There is a proposal to assign to the Head of the Supreme Council immediately to sign the bills adopted today as a whole and to direct them immediately to the President of Ukraine for signature. I'll bet on the vote on the proposal. Please be supportive. [[15:23:58]] For 238. Decision taken. There is also a small announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules, according to these statements, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna and Solod Jury Vasilovich into the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace" group. Dear colleagues, all the questions that have been planned for today are under consideration. Thank you for your fruitful work. We're not closing our plenary session, we're taking a break. You will be informed of the time and place of our next meeting in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. With us is the truth, God is with us. A Russian ship goes where it goes. We'll win together. Glory to Ukraine!
