ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, today our video session will be attended by the distinguished Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrey Plenkovic. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] In the guest bed, the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were attended by the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to Ukraine, Mrs. Anitsa Jamic. Let's welcome her. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary meeting I would like to highlight the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the beginning of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a single plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposals of the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good parliamentary tradition, we will begin work with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable Ukrainian national MPs are now serving 237 days of full - scale armed racist aggression against the Ukrainian people and their state. The enemy treacherously bombards thousands of towns and civilian buildings in Ukraine. It's trying to destroy our nation's energy infrastructure. Today, yesterday and last week, under the air strikes of the Kamikaze drones and missiles, our capital city of Kyiv also came to an end. The occupier naively thinks he can intimidate the Ukrainian people. At the crime of the aggressor, we are responding to powerful achievements both in the international arena and in the field of battle. For information. On October 12, 2022, during a new 11th special session of the UN General Assembly on the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, 140 nations voted in favour of Ukraine’s territorial integrity resolution to protect the principles of the UN Charter. Thanks to the efforts of the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we also have a joint signal from PARJE, which at its meeting on 13 October adopted a resolution condemning Russian aggression against Ukraine, and became the first international organization to recognise the regime as terrorist in Russia. We are also counting, and what decisions will be taken in national parliaments. Moreover, thanks to the activities of the Ukrainian delegation to the 145th Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, a resolution was adopted that strongly condemns Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and attempts to annex Ukraine. We are grateful to the States for their strong support, which will also be an important part of the international legal instrument to bring Russia to justice. Meanwhile, the Armed Forces, the defence forces of Ukraine, continue to destroy the invaders with misery. With the pressure of our courageous and unbreakable warriors, more than 1,600 settlements have been released since the outbreak of widespread aggression. The price of our struggle to win is too high, the size of human life. So I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the defenders and protectors, all who gave their lives for an independent, sovereign, democratic Ukraine. Eternity to the fallen heroes. We also honor the memory of all the peaceful citizens who died as a result of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Ukrainian Parliament has the honour to hear the video of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrey Plenkovic. Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of you. [[Applause]] Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we express our deep gratitude to the Croatian people, the government and the Croatian Parliament, personally for the firm and firm support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. We highly appreciate the military assistance and work provided by the Croatian government for Ukraine's further support in this direction. We continue to count on your active position on increasing international and sanctions pressure on the aggressor country. The first parliamentary summit of the International Crimea Platform in Zagreb, which is an active instrument in the depopulation of the Crimea Peninsula, is particularly commendable. Not to be overlooked is the concern and warmth of the Ukrainians to whom Croatia has granted temporary protection, as well as the acceptance to heal Ukrainian defenders who have suffered as a result of the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. We hope to help a friendly Croatia on Ukraine's path to the European Union and NATO. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u2	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Stefanchuk, distinguished national deputies! Today is 237 days of your fight for free Ukraine, today you have witnessed again the brutal rocket attack on Ukrainian cities. Instigated by the excitement and support of the entire democratic world, your soldiers, citizens, and the leadership of the state have successfully resisted aggression. Your brave army is advancing in the liberation of occupied territory. By your power, wisdom, and love for your homeland, you have touched the hearts of people around the world. We are well aware that your opposition will not stop until Ukraine is free. Dear friends, we in Croatia feel especially close to your determination to live in a free and independent homeland and your desire to leave home for future generations where they can be themselves. Justice and truth on your side and therefore Croatia stands firm with you in solidarity, from the first day of aggression. It is my great honour to address you at this very moment, just before the first parliamentary meeting of the International Crime Platform in Zagreb. Honourable members of the Supreme Council, in addition to causing unrelenting human tragedies and countless destruction in Ukraine, Russia’s aggression against Ukraine poses the greatest threat to European security in the past 30 years. Russia's desire to force, illegally and unjustifiably cross borders in Europe is only the external dimensions of the authoritarian regime that showed its true face to Europe and the world this fall. This regime is guided by the ideas of the rejected policies of the IX and XX centuries, the policies of zones of influence, the iron curtain, and the capture of foreign territory. Such policies are based on fear and restraint of brute force, as well as deliberate denial of personal freedoms, the rule of law, and human dignity. Against such policies, both before and after February 24, Ukraine expressed its unbreakable desire to preserve its identity and statehood. A free and democratic world, determined to defend the principles and values that we share, was the only answer to such a policy. Therefore, on behalf of Croatia, the honourable national deputies, on every occasion, we express our unequivocal support for Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity in its internationally recognized borders. Croatia never recognizes the annexation of occupied Ukrainian regions, as it did not acknowledge the annexation of Crimea. We strongly condemn Russia's futile attempt, through fair referendums, to own parts of Ukrainian land. The gathering of voices from house to house accompanied by armed soldiers cannot in any way reflect the democratic will of the people. For almost 8 months now, we have witnessed massive and grave violations of human rights and of the war crimes of the Russian forces. We are shocked by the brutal attacks that took place today and the previous days on children’s playgrounds, parks, universities, civilian and energy infrastructure in many Ukrainian cities. We are shocked by mass killings, arbitrary executions, detentions, tortures, violent disappearances, and deportations. I personally witnessed the terrible destruction in the suburbs of Kiev, where so many Ukrainians died. Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council! In a situation where a nuclear power attacks a state without nuclear weapons, we condemn any suggestion that weapons of mass destruction may be used. In this senseless war, Russia also uses food, energy, and inflation as a means of pressure on the rest of the world. Many countries now face high prices, food shortages, and other economic problems because of Russian aggression. Truth is, Russia is the only culprit of the global crisis, because it itself caused it. The response of the international community to Russian aggression was rapid, clear, and unprecedented. Croatia is also with those countries that have adopted sanctions to increase pressure on Russia. And while Ukraine can count on the solidarity of international co-operation, Russia is increasingly isolated. Last week, the overwhelming majority of votes were 143, and a UN General Assembly resolution was adopted, condemning Russia's attempt to illegally adopt parts of Ukraine. This is the third General Assembly resolution this year, which strongly supports Ukraine. And yet another clear message from the vast majority of the international community for Russia about the true nature of the conflict it caused. Invasion of Ukraine and gross and systematic violations of human rights have led to the suspension of Russia’s membership in the UN Human Rights Council. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe also made it clear that Russia is not part of an organization that protects fundamental human rights. In short, Russia has no friends in the international arena and no support at home. Along with other international players, the European Union itself has currently adopted eight sanctions packages. Ukraine is provided with political, military, humanitarian, financial and any other assistance from the EU and its member countries. And this will continue as long as it takes for Ukraine to regain its territorial integrity and achieve a just victory and peace. Honorable national MPs, unprovoked war, the suffering of civilians and the prisoners of war that we are witnessing are to be the subject of criminal persecution. Russia must be responsible for its crimes, Croatia supports your efforts in all international legal institutions. As a result, we have joined various procedures before the European Court of Justice and the International Court of Human Rights. Sadly, we know very well how difficult and traumatic it is for victims of war crimes to wait for justice for a long time. Taught by the tragic experience of domestic war, we emphasize the importance of the registration of victims, as well as the collection of advice and analysis of evidence of human rights violations, and international humanitarian law, which are necessary to ensure accountability, to bring rights to the victims and to the families of the victims, as well as to search for missing persons. Therefore, I am pleased that our experts are advising the Department of Military Crimes of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and helping through mobile judicial groups. Dear friends! The relationship between our two nations is numerous and far - reaching. Ukrainians in Croatia belong to the oldest Ukrainian minority in the world. Ukraine was among the first states to recognize the Republic of Croatia as a sovereign and independent state, and I am proud that this year we celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the establishment of our diplomatic relations. I am proud that I have personally had close ties with Ukraine for many years in my work. As head of the delegation of the European Parliament in Ukraine, I have had the opportunity to be on the Supreme Council many times and to meet many of you. I continued to support Ukraine’s closeness to the European Union as the head of the Croatian government. I was the first Croatian Prime Minister to visit Ukraine in 2016 at the very beginning of my mandate. And I also initiated the creation of a working group on cooperation between Croatia and Ukraine. And in this Croatia, we provide support, our experience of peaceful reintegration of occupied territories, as well as knowledge from the Euro-integration process. Last year I had the opportunity to visit Ukraine twice, and during this year’s visit, I witnessed great suffering in Butchi and Irpin, which reminded me very much of the crimes committed in Croatia during the 1990 ’ s. Dear friends! After the beginning of Russian aggression, we reacted immediately in the early hours after the attack on Ukraine, almost reflectively, precisely because of our own experience, the struggle for independence and the protection of the territory for Croatia was not a dilemma. The day after the Russian aggression began, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Declaration that strongly condemned Russian aggression. We have directed financial, humanitarian, technical and military assistance to Ukraine, received 22,000 Ukrainian refugees, provided summer rest on the Croatian coast for hundreds of Ukrainian children, Ukrainian defenders, and will continue to help. Our unique experience in exchange, postwar reconstruction of the country, caring for veterans and war-torn also for your services. At the same time, we are witnessing the solidarity of the Croatian people with the Ukrainian people, giving us certain donations of humanitarian organizations that fill us with pride. Let me also express my respect and pride for the Ambassador of Croatia to Ukraine, Mrs. Anica Jamic, who remained in Ukraine and Ukraine on the most difficult days of this terrible war and did not abandon it. Thank you. And congratulations! [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you for the great enthusiasm and great fighter for Ukraine, who protects all the Ukrainians here every day, your Ambassador, Mr. Vasil Kirilić, who is here with me today, who is helping me to better understand the situation in Ukraine, my colleagues in Ukraine and the Croatian public. The two fundamental political priorities of Ukraine, namely the reintegration of occupied territories and the country's Euro-Atlantic path, will continue to be systematically supported by our government. Croatia also has a unique experience in this area. From the very beginning, we supported your European path, and I was very pleased that President Zelensky and I signed a joint declaration last December in Kiev on Ukraine's European perspective. I am convinced that, in parallel with the opposition of Russian aggression, Ukraine will demonstrate its commitment to democracy and the preservation of freedom on its European path, which began in June this year with its status as a candidate. Croatia fully supports this status. We welcome you with this, and we want you to implement in a short time all the recommendations sent to you by the European Commission. This candidate status is not only a reflection of the EU's unity and political resolve at the time of Russian aggression, but also a merit of a young, dynamic and self-aware Ukrainian democracy that has grown and gained strength over the years. The EU accession process is a great opportunity for generations to modernise Ukrainian institutions and economies and strengthen Ukrainian statehood. Croatia will help you as the newest EU member country in this process. The hard way will require persistence and determination, as well as political unity, which I believe the Supreme Council will demonstrate in the near future. Ukraine's further European path will be the greatest moral satisfaction for all victims of the Ukrainian people in the struggle for freedom, independence and democracy. Croatia is a strong supporter of NATO's open-door politics and respects Ukraine's desire to join the North Atlantic Alliance. Once again, we reaffirm our attachment to the declaration of the Bucharest summit. Each nation, including Ukraine, has the right to choose its own course freely, including the type of security assurances and arrangements it wants to be in. It is also clear that there are procedures for any other membership request for which allies must reach consensus. What is now directly important is that NATO and all its members will continue to provide strong support to Ukraine. The example of Croatia shows how you can protect your country from aggression, defeat a much stronger adversary, transform the state and society, and eventually become part of the European family of nations. So when we say that no one understands Ukrainians better than we do, it's not just a phrase, and no one is happier than we are when we see the historic unity of Europe in response to this conquest. Unfortunately, Croatia did not have such support, but we are glad that Europe has learned from its past mistakes and today recognizes the aggressor and provides assistance to the victim of aggression. Ten days ago at the first meeting of the European political community in Prague, President Zelenski and then Prime Minister Schmigal said that we should not stop defending freedom and democracy. The whole world, the real democratic world, that's why it understands your desire and struggle, and it supports you. The Kremlin was counting on Europe’s defiance and retreat, and it created unity more than ever and a powerful response from a united Europe. He was counting on blackmailing gas and oil, and all he had achieved was Russia lost its main export market. He was counting on the vulnerability of Europe because of its energy dependence, and he subjected Russia to painful and increasingly severe sanctions. He was counting on the indifference of the Europeans, and they demonstrated an unprecedented level of solidarity with Ukraine. He relied on the threat of waving nuclear weapons, and the result was the recent incredible military assistance in the defense of Ukraine. I was counting on the support of most non - European countries, and Isolating Russia as never before. He was counting on a patriotic impulse during military mobilization, and he caused mass emigration of Russians who did not want to die for the conquest of Ukraine. All of them are miscalculations with disastrous consequences for Russia itself. And most important of all. He calculated that in three days he would conquer Ukraine and easily win his war, but you showed your courage, heart, and love for the Fatherland. We agree with Ukraine's board of directors that it is essential to keep abreast of Russia's efforts to capture Crimea. In this we see the important role of parliaments. And as I have pointed out at the outset, we are extremely pleased that Zagreb will accept many European parliaments next week and I will be able to accept the delegation of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Supreme Council of Stefanchuk. Dear National Deputies of the Supreme Council, dear Ukrainians and Ukrainians! We are proud and impressed by the unity and determination that you demonstrate. Ukraine’s flags march around the world as a sign of solidarity. I wish that Ukrainian flags would soon reign throughout Ukraine in its recognized and well-known borders. I thank you for this opportunity and wish you continued courage, determination in your fair fight for freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us thank the distinguished Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia in Ukraine, for his participation in the plenary and unreserved support of Ukraine. Thank you. Thank you! [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you. Fellows, we continue our work. Today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Sergey Costinovich Ionushas, "Sergeant of the People". Let's say hello! Helen Volodymyrna of the Curvature, "Serve of the People." And Roman Vasilovich Soha's "Serve of the People." We welcome our colleagues, we wish for strong health, strength, new achievements in the name of Ukraine and peace. Dear colleagues, on October 17, 22nd, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's National Deputies on July 21, 2019, in the state-wide multi-member constituency of Klapuk Maksim Mikolaiovich, who is included in the election list of the political party "Halos". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hlapuk Maksim Mikolaiovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Please take your seats. Today, we will quickly vote for security issues. Please take your seats. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote to predict the outcome of the day’s vote. People's deputies please take part in the signal vote, press the green "Z" button. I remind you that by holding the sensor button, you have to press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I'm calling for a vote. Please vote. [[12:34:51]] For 268. 268 vs. 5, held – 2, not voted – 77. Everything as usual. Thank you. Thank you all. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all national deputies and representatives of the government to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council and not to disseminate information on the progress of the plenary session taken by Parliament before 30 minutes after the end of our work. A list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board is given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, today we have virtually all questions to vote in favour of the question, only in some will there be two minutes or one, two amendments. But today’s order of the day has been formed as efficiently as possible. So please concentrate, we have to quickly go through today's agenda. Please take your seats. I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of 8110 is a draft decree for the execution by the head of the Berdian City Military Administration of the Berdian Region of Zaporozhye area of powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:36:19]] For 298 Decision taken. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Decree 8110. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:36:44]] For 304 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next up, 8124. This is a draft decree for the execution by the head of the Lysican City Military Administration of the Sevjerodonetsk Region of the Lugansk Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include this Project Regulation 8124 in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:24]] For 311 Decision taken. It's a show. Oh, we're on. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Decree (8124). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:52]] For 306 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next Order (8128). This is a draft decree for the execution by the head of the Tokyo City Military Administration of the Polosov Region of Zaporez Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I propose to include in the agenda of the day’s session a draft Decree (8128). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:30]] For 306 Decision taken. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Decree (8128). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:57]] For 310 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. The next draft of the Order is 8132. This is a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for recognition of the Chechen Republic of Icéria by the Russian Federation temporarily occupied and condemning the genocide of the Chechen people. I'm proposing to include this draft decision in the agenda of the day session. [[12:39:41]] For 290 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for recognition by the Russian Federation of the Chechen Republic of Iceland of the recognition of the temporary occupation of the Russian Federation and the condemnation of the genocide of the Chechen people (registration number of draft regulation 8132). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:40:18]] For 287 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Please, we'll have all the procedural questions later. Dear colleagues, 0148 is a draft law on the withdrawal of Ukraine from the Convention on Transnational Corporations. I propose to adopt this bill as a basis and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, this bill is 0148. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:41:00]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. I'll bet the next one is 0158. This is a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Extradition Convention. I propose to adopt the draft Law 0158 as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:41:36]] For 305 Decision taken. Next, fellow believers, 8126. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. I propose to include the draft Law 8126 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:15]] For 314 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2022 (registration No. 8126). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:42]] For 318 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2022 (Registration No. 8126). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:11]] For 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 6241 is a draft of the National Information Programme Act. I propose to adopt this Bill 6241 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:45]] For 287 I propose to shorten the deadline for amendments and proposals to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6241. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:12]] For 259. Decision taken. The next bill, 7735, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise to improve the administrative and administrative provision of court-expert activities. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:42]] For 288 I would like to make a proposal on the basis of draft Law 7735. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:10]] For 274 Decision taken. I would like to propose a cut in half of the deadlines for the submission of proposals, amendments for the preparation of the second reading of Bill 7735. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:37]] For 244 Decision taken. The next bill, 8109, is the Presidential draft of the Act amending the Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the features of the term of military service and the activities of recruitment committees during the war. I'm proposing to include 8,109 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:13]] For 317 Decision taken. I propose to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of Bill 8109. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:37]] For 281 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the features of the term of military service and the activities of recruitment committees in the course of military status (registration No. 8109). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:09]] For 319 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the features of the term of military service and the activities of recruitment committees in the course of the state of war (registration No. 8109). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:41]] For 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next Bill 7444. We agreed no one would make any adjustments. That's why I'm announcing. And the title of the bill. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase the control of medical leave. I therefore propose, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of the control of medical leave (registration number 7444). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:37]] For 258. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next Bill 8037 is a draft of the Chemical Safety and Management Act. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:07]] For 312 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Chemical Safety and Management Act (Registration No. 8037). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:31]] For 311 Decision taken. We don't put a cut in time because the position of the committee. Next, 7557. There was an amendment, too, but it was removed. So I immediately, this is a bill amending some of the legislation on the functioning of local and voluntary fire protection. I therefore immediately propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of local and voluntary fire protection (registration number 7557). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:50:20]] For 317 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill without discussion, not amended, 7433 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance and some other laws of Ukraine on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities during Wartime and on the Simplification of the Calculation of Workplaces for Persons with Disabilities. I propose to adopt the draft Law (registration number 7433) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:09]] For 318 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next Bill 8076 is a draft of the Act amending the Law on Charity and Charity Organizations to improve the integration of charitable workers into the Register of Volunteers for Anti-Terrorism Operation and/or the implementation of measures to ensure national security and defence, and to deter and deter the armed aggression of the Russian Federation, 8076. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session, 8076. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:56]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed, this is two minutes. Are you going to insist? Then I'm going to put a summary procedure on this bill. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. But there will only be one faction, two minutes. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:52:24]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've agreed for two minutes and we're voting, please don't split. Who's from the faction? Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please. Dear colleagues, in two minutes we're voting, only one faction is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u6	The European Solidarity faction supports this bill. But in fact, colleagues, it's not just about registering and simplifying or unforgivable registrations in this volunteer register. It's much deeper because unfortunately, we're living in reality right now when we're being hunted down by volunteers and volunteer communities. And if, by the end of September, there were 46 tours of some sort that didn't seem to be such an import of humanitarian aid, cars for the front, then there are already more than 53. And although the matter has quieted down in public, it is actually moving and persecution is happening. We live in reality when we have the right and wrong volunteers, that is, our own friendly or unwelcome volunteers. And as a result, those who are their own, they're in marathons, they're everywhere, not their own -- please, criminal cases, trials, and a lot of different problems. We're also having strange separate meetings, where different bills are being drafted, but MPs from opposition and non-voluntary volunteers are not invited there. We have many moments now, such as when military administrations are taking revenge for the announcement of criminal cases against volunteers and blocking the possibility of actual volunteers being included in the Seizure system. So in this case, we have to help the volunteers, because without them, we wouldn't be able to hold the army. And I urge the law enforcement authorities to stop persecuting volunteers. I call on the military administrations to make maximum support. We're told that now the army will be provided with 100 percent form, and the logistics department will report only 40 percent capacity and 60 percent volunteer. And in real time, it's the volunteers who are holding our state today. So get your hands off the volunteers! And we work as hard as we can for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on Charities and Charities in Ukraine to improve the integration of charitable workers into the Register of Volunteers for Anti-Terrorism Operation and/or the implementation of national security and defence measures, the interception and deterrence of armed aggression by the Russian Federation (registration No. 8076). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:31]] For 301 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8076. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:58]] For 269 Decision taken. Next Bill, Honorable Colleagues, 7607. It's a second reading again. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the formation and implementation of state policy in the area of protection of critical infrastructure. 7607. We agreed, one "Paternity" amendment, and we vote. Please, who's it going to be? Sergey Vladislavovich, your amendment or whose? Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please. You won't, will you? That's it, thank you. We're not going to make this amendment. So I'm going straight to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the formation and implementation of state policy in the area of the protection of critical infrastructure (registration number 7607) in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:11]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, second reading. 6097 is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on Electronic Identification and Electronic Trust Services. I propose to adopt draft Law 6097 in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:52]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next question. 8100 is a draft decree establishing a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the possible ineffective activities of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, the State Water Agency of Ukraine and the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, their territorial bodies, enterprises, institutions and organizations that are part of their administration, which may have led to a reduction in revenues to state and local budgets. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:58:44]] For 186 Decision taken. Next, I would like to make a proposal to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to draft Regulation 8100. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:12]] For 158. Decision taken. A temporary commission has been set up. Next up, 7606. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Civility Act and the Nationality Act and the Nationality Act on ensuring the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language on the conditions of admission to Ukrainian citizenship. I propose to adopt this Bill 7606 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:52]] For 309 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals, amendments for preparation for second reading, Bill 8606. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:20]] For 267 Decision taken. The next Bill 7494 is a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to clarify the provisions on the restoration of lost materials of criminal conduct, the lifting of a precautionary measure to carry out military service under military conditions. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:00]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed two minutes from European Solidarity and we're voting now. Please don't break up. We'll vote in two minutes. Which one of you will it be? Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, first of all, of the procedure. During the Conciliation Council, you can see that all factions, factions of factions, have worked very constructively today. We've decided that the marathon in the Council network should include leaders or representatives of all factions about our positions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the recognition of the country. And I very much ask the Head of the Supreme Council to confirm this under the transcript, Mr. Head. Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Head! Under the transcript to confirm our agreement with you, the Conciliation Council on the "Council" channel, in which the inclusion of the position of all factions in the Chechnya ruling is expected. That's the first one. Now for the bill that we're discussing with you right now. Our faction supports it. But I would like to point out that at the beginning of a full-scale invasion, such as the D.B.I., the D.D.A., and other power structures, somehow, leaving the Chinese, they were evacuated to the deep back of Lviv, Zacarpathia, Frankishte, Chernivecina, Bukovina. And at the same time, they destroyed very important documents, even in such resonant matters as the betrayal of the Harkow Accords. And now this bill gives them the right, you know, to use the budget again instead of reporting why they weren't evacuated, these documents are important, and to investigate with the fugitives and refugees with these forces, and now they're going to restore them. We believe that an important change must be made before the second reading, a report that is why the evidence of the important resonances has been destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to make your decision. Honorary colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to clarify the provisions on the restoration of lost materials of criminal conduct, the lifting of a precautionary measure to carry out military service under conditions of military status (registration number 7494). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:07]] For 305 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7494. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:32]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is what we're talking about, I confirm. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go. A solution? The decision has to be made. I can confirm that that was the case. Guys, let's go through everything, then all the "hotels" are procedural, procedural. Thank you. 4048. Dear colleagues, this is a draft law amending certain legislative acts to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. We had a speech -- six amendments from Fatherland. Do you not insist, Sergey Vladislavovich, already? Don't insist. We can vote now. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (registration No. 4048). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:46]] For-286 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go through the finals, then. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're going in 4049. Guys, come on, please. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich from the procedure and then we have the final bill for today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u10	Dear Ruslane Alexiyovich, I ask you to put to the vote a decision on how to vote on the announcement in the "marathon" from the heads or representatives of the factions and groups we have made today in the case of Icceria. Put it on the vote right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u11	I'm betting on Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself. Do you understand what this is all about? Please vote. [[13:06:44]] For 271 Decision taken. Next bill and final for today, colleagues. But we don't break up with him, because Alexander Sergiyovich will also make an immediate signature proposal, especially with regard to the military budget. Dear colleagues, this is 4049. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. We agreed that there would be no amendments, we could put it to a vote. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the enforcement of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (Registration No. 4049). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:44]] For 290 Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u12	I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council sign the bills adopted today as a whole and send them to the President of Ukraine for signature without delay. I'll bet you a vote. Please be supportive. [[13:08:18]] For-300 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-10-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We believe in the Ukrainian Armed Forces! We'll win together! And the glory of Ukraine!
