ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-24-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for your registration. We expect materials from the apparatus to read everything there correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-24-m0.u2	Guys, one more second. Now they're going to bring me a text message that's consistent with everything, and we're going to start. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are to be approved within two days of the request of the President of Ukraine for a military order in Ukraine or in its separate areas. According to article 106, part one, paragraph 20, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine takes decisions under the law to introduce martial law in Ukraine or in its separate areas in the event of a threat to the attack, the danger of Ukrainian State independence. According to article 85, paragraph 31, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 20, of the first article of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of military status, the President of Ukraine today submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law approving the President's decree on the introduction of military status in Ukraine. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the issue of the approval of the Presidential Decree on the introduction of military status in Ukraine or in certain areas of Ukraine shall be considered by the Supreme Council without voting on its inclusion in the agenda in the first reading and adoption procedure as a whole. Dear colleagues, this is such general information. I'll ask you now. We'll run the registration. Dear colleagues, prepare for registration. Please insert the cards, prepare to register. Dear colleagues, I remind you. Wait a second. Dear colleagues, please prepare. Dear colleagues, please insert the cards, and we will now register by clicking on the green button. Ready? Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the National Deputies to register. [[08:03:55]] There are 282 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare the plenary session open. Dear colleagues, once again let me read it. According to the 31st part of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been approved within two days of the request of the President of Ukraine for a decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine or in its separate areas. According to article 106, part one, paragraph 20, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine makes a decision under the law to introduce a state of war in Ukraine or in its separate areas in the event of a threat to the attack, the danger of Ukrainian State independence. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 20 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law, the President of Ukraine today submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the approval of the President's decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine on 24 February. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the issue of the approval of the President's Decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine or in certain areas thereof shall be considered by the Supreme Council without a vote on the inclusion of it in the agenda and without a committee, under the procedure of first reading of the adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that there be a speech by the Secretary of the RNB. After that, without any discussion, we moved on to making a decision. Will you support me? Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Alexia Mechaslavovich Danielov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-24-m0.u3	Honorable MPs, citizens of our country! [[B in m in s a l in]] At five o’clock this morning, the Russian Federation actually declared war on our independent country. Russian troops attacked our peaceful cities and villages today. At five o’clock this morning, fighting began on the borders of our country. Today, at 5:30 a.m., the President of Ukraine convened a meeting of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, which took an urgent decision on the introduction of military status in our country. I ask you very much to support this decision, this Presidential decree, we absolutely need it. Our troops are fighting now, we're fighting today, we're fighting today, we're all in our seats, we're not giving our country to anyone. This is our country and we will protect it. [[Applause]] I want to address all the citizens of our country: keep calm, don't panic. We are aware of what needs to be done. This morning, the President had a conversation with the President of the United States, John Byden, who had a conversation with Britain, France, and all the leading countries. We are not alone in this fight. We understand what we need to do. The main thing is that today, respected friends, the security and defence sectors are planning their tasks according to current legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-24-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, part one, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, article 5 of the Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status puts to the vote for adoption as a whole the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 7111) on the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the introduction of military status in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[08:08:27]] For-300 Decision taken. Tell me about the factions, please. Thank you. Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Heroim Slava! Dear National Deputies! One second. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another procedural decision to vote on, and I propose that we continue this plenary session without closing it now. Allow me as presiding officer to determine the time, place and manner of voting in the next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? Me or the First Deputy or Deputy Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Is that a decision taken, dear colleagues? I ask you to vote for this proposal. [[08:09:42]] For 299 Decision taken. I entrust the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the results of Parliament's decision to draw up the text of the relevant decision and to sign it. Dear colleagues, according to this, it is understood that I can announce further recesses during these sessions. You understand that. Dear colleagues, please, all national deputies remain in Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, all national deputies remain in Kiev. I very much ask you, if necessary, we must be ready to immediately gather at a designated place at a fixed time and work for the Ukrainian State. Whoever's gone is a traitor. Dear colleagues! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-24-m0.u5	I collect factions' heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-02-24-m0.u6	Announcer: Irina Heratchenko didn't have a card, she voted in favour.
