ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, may I have your attention? Before continuing our plenary meeting tomorrow, I would like to stress the need to abide by the security rules in the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the date and time of the opening of the plenary session, its passage and adoption in Parliament of decisions earlier than 30 minutes after the end of our work. I ask everyone in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state, your colleagues, the employees of the Apparatus and the guests of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council is working in the plenary session continuously, so today, according to our orders to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of the state of war and the "Organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the act of armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on 24 February 2022" at the proposal of the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue the plenary session. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. A delegation from the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) is in charge of their co-chair, European Parliament member Ilhan Kuchuk. Let's welcome, the delegation is in the meeting room of the Supreme Council. We highly appreciate the consistent unwavering support, independent sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in our good tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Heroic glory! yesterday, August 29, we honored the memory of our heroes who died in the struggle for independence, sovereignty, and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Ukraine’s defenders and protectors have been courageously and loyally holding back the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine for the past nine years, for the seventh month making a decisive stand against the vastly racist scourge of freedom, democracy, the sovereign right of the Ukrainian people to determine their own destiny on their own land. I ask everyone for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the soldiers who gave their most precious lives for an independent, single and indivisible European country. Everlasting memory and eternal honor to all who put their lives in favor of Ukraine. Eternal glory to all who fight for its sovereignty and independence. We also honor the memory of all the peaceful Ukrainians who died as a result of the terrorist state's aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, before we begin our work, I would like to inform you that today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Artem Vasilovich Dubnov (Slut of the People) and Dmitry Valeriyovich Isenka (the "Delivery of Ukraine"). Let's welcome them. We will want them to have good health, to work victoriously for the benefit of our nation, and to win as quickly as possible. [[Applause]] On August 12, 2022 and August 26, 2022, the Central Electoral Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected to the next election of the Ukrainian People's Deputies on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, which was included in the electoral list of the political party "Slut of the People", Vasjuk Alexandra Alexandrovič and Kralenko Valentine Jurijovna. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasjuk Alexander Alexandrovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u2	I, Vasjuk Alexander Alexandrovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. And may God help me to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Queen Valentina Yuriovna, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u5	Heroim Slava! Hello. Dear colleagues, I welcome you with your oath. And I give the word to Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u6	According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Vasjuk Alexandra Alexandrovič and Valentina Jurijovna into the political party's "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give up until three minutes to the daytime issues for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I'm asking representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished guests! First of all, we are grateful to our Western partners, who, in times of war, provide much support for Ukraine with weapons and finance, because without this support, Ukraine would be inconceivably difficult. To a lesser extent, we should be grateful to our volunteers and ordinary citizens of Ukraine, who last place on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, believing in our victory. And as the iron curtain descends on Russia, and Russia itself forms an absolute totalitarian regime, Ukraine should have a genuine open door to Europe and receive this support that our Western partners promise. We hope that we are at a turning point in the war when, as the President has said, we want to take our own. We're just about the day of the beginning of autumn, my friends. It is a new learning season that is difficult but important for our schoolchildren who should receive proper education. It is not too soon when the most difficult winter for Ukraine will take place in the history of Ukrainian independence. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for its part, should support initiatives aimed at purchasing, additional purchasing, natural gas for the needs of the population and the identification of the subject of such purchases, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's corresponding bill today we will consider. We are grateful to the Canadian government for lending 12.7 billion dollars to buy natural gas. Ukrainian citizens must understand all the complexity of this fall-winter period and know how we should go through it. In particular, whether the state can increase the required 15-19 billion cubic metres of gas, 2-2.5 million tons of coal for heat-generating enterprises. We also need to understand clearly the extent to which large cities under missile fire will be provided with heating centers, diesel and gas generators, bourgeois, mobile boilers on alternative fuels; or whether sufficient funds from the contingency fund have been provided to the centers of the united communities to buy all the necessary items to pass this heated, uneasy season. We understand that our enemy's missiles are going to end in one way or another, but he will continue to try to damage or break the power plants in order to get Ukraine to accept such necessary compromises. Therefore, Ukrainian citizens should receive from the leaders of all central authorities confirmation and conviction that this heating season will be over and that Ukraine will remain warm and we will preserve our homes and our independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u9	Please, Pauline, instead of Boyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, today and tomorrow Ukraine will report to the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child on the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The report itself is an extraordinary event for each country that has ratified this convention, especially for Ukraine today, which is now facing other challenges that are facing us from the rights of the child, even from war. The main new ones are that in the occupied territories of Ukraine there are more than 50,000 children, about 5 million children are displaced from places of permanent residence, 3 million of whom are displaced abroad, children who have lost close relatives and are raised by widow moms, children who are separated from families who remain in occupied territories or are held hostage and in captivity by the aggressor country. These and other circumstances in children’s lives require a remodeling of the child’s rights in Ukraine. In order to minimize and overcome such challenges, the Ukrainian system of protection of children’s rights must be changed with emphasis on these problems, not on the problems of peacetime. In general, the Cabinet of Ministers makes two or three decisions every day that regulate new challenges, but conceptually a new system, no new measures are formed. The global system for the protection of children’s rights is still built according to peacetime standards or old - fashioned concepts. Many efforts have been made over the past two months by the child’s rights group led by Deputy Prime Minister Irina Vereschuk. She took the responsibility of finding decisions that today would protect children both inside and outside the country. The first is positive results. At the same time, solving the problems of a particular child who is experiencing violence today requires organization, unifying the efforts of every adult, regardless of where he is working, what he is doing, what he is caring for, and more of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Just a few days later, a new teaching year, a difficult year, will begin in Ukraine. The country is actively working on creating safe places. At the same time, the emotional state of the students, all the children, parents, and families, and the educational community are being given little attention. I think these and other questions will be heard tomorrow by members of the government delegation from representatives of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. The question of the quality of a child’s life in Ukraine, not just the number of his measurements, is, unfortunately, used to giving power. I am confident that the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child will welcome Ukraine’s recommendations for the creation of the State Service for Children, which is today the first item.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u11	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u12	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u13	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u14	For more than six months, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have been holding back a full - scale Russian offensive. This has been made possible by the military demonstrating the unity, unity of all those who are willing to defend the country. The same unity we saw in this room, we saw right after February 24th, when this full-scale attack started, we saw it again after February 24th, then we approved the laws on mobilisation, on collaborationism, on information aggression, on theft, on Russian property confiscation, on the additional budget for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, on the protection of the Ukrainian information field. Sadly, that remains in the past. The absence of broadcasts from the Supreme Council, the lack of even having the "Council" channel, the parliamentary television channel shown in the recording of this broadcast, has led us now to have more detail in the meetings than to make some of our "hotels" rather than to make the things that make our Ukraine stronger. Unfortunately, the Rada channel has turned into a channel of power, not a parliamentary channel, into a propaganda channel of power. From calls to unity and collective opposition to the enemy in both internal and external fronts, there is little left. What do we see now? In the order of the day, the "Serves of the Nation" rewards the innocent and punishes the innocent, solves their own questions. Look at today’s agenda. Because of amendments to a law that has nothing to do with this area, they try to bring tobacco back to public places. Because of the law on combating terrorism, which is called terrorism, he is actually trying to build an authoritarian regime in Ukraine. And the Media Act that will be considered today, the law that is presented as European law, is actually in this very important law for Ukraine using things that make Ukraine weaker. I'm just going to focus on the most important things. The actual reduction of the Ukrainian song quota by 10 percent, the return of racist artists to the screens by leveling the number of people who pose a threat to national security. We have a tool that they want to destroy right now. Cancelling the ban on the promotion of Russian authorities and individual representatives in television and movies Canceling the ban on humiliation, disrespecting the Ukrainian language in movies. Allowing TV channels to continue to violate the Language Law with impunity by broadcasting movies in Russian. Cancelling the recently approved ban on songs by pro-Russian performers. We are very pleased with you that Bill 2310, which prohibits the execution of Russian music, prohibits the performances of Russian performers, as approved in this Parliament, the Media Act is essentially subject to this law, which is now in force. Unfortunately, you and I are now witnessing that under the cover of European integration into Ukraine and in this room, unfortunately, the Russians are returning. We have to unite, we have to unite around everything that makes Ukraine stronger. Unfortunately, the Media Act makes Ukraine weaker, unfortunately, the Media Act is what it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People". Please. Gettmans Danilo Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, the usual and desirable word for us is "win." But what is victory? It's not something you learn in the morning suddenly, waking up, it's not someone's gift, it's not the gift of heaven. Victory is pain and struggle, victory is what you create every minute of every day, subjugating this goal all of yourself. Victory is the death of loved ones, perhaps even Ukrainians unknown to you, but your loved ones. Victory is a soldier who gives his life by defending himself and taking the lead. Thank God for coming forward. Victory is also the back, which, by straining all the muscles, gives itself up to the front. Victory is our Ukrainian business, which, together with the state, is collecting more taxes today than before the war, because money is a weapon, and childhood is also a victory. When the economy collapsed by 28 percent, our business succeeded, our citizens managed to collect more than 25 percent of taxes in seven months this year, a quarter of what was collected last year. The VAT was increased, collected 33.5 percent more in advance of the plan, and 50 percent more in advance of the year. And we've already gathered more than 8 months this year. Business and state are working together to win, and there is also our common victory, because victory is everyone's self-loyal commitment. Victory is also the nation's state MPs, who, by refusing the usual Ukrainian population, make very important, useful decisions for the country, but unpopular decisions, rejecting politics and disunity, because there are no popular decisions to win today. Popular decisions will come after victory. I thank you for understanding colleagues who support such decisions. I thank society also for understanding this, for our decisions, because victory at last is unity, unity of purpose, it's the only struggle and one nation, the only victory -- one for all, and it will be there, it will be there soon, if we are together, we will all work together to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u17	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, every time every Ukrainian comes to his place of work, he must first mention and thank the bravest of all of us and all of the Ukrainians who have managed to pass the assembly centers, take up arms and today defend our ability to work on the fronts, risking the most expensive. Today, we thank both the fighting brigades, as legendary as the 24th, 80th and many others, so in a special way, we thank those courageous advocates and protectors who are in the territorial defenses who are not at home, but have shown great courage and courage and are still operating on various fronts today. They certainly deserve recognition, and they deserve to see how important this victory is to the Ukrainian people by their courage. They deserve to see their families and families. Thus, in a special way, we turn from this rostrum to Genstab to enable the most courageous ones to see their families and their families. Today, we also thank our international partners, starting with our brotherly neighbor Poland, who has most founded her shoulders, all European countries, Great Britain, the United States of America, for this great international technical assistance that helps the bravest, in fact, to win this long-awaited victory of the Ukrainian people. In a special way, we address both our families and the families of our supporters, for when a family is at war on the front, it is a definite experience for all family members and families, especially those who are missing, likely in captivity, to the families of those whose husbands, relatives, are officially recognized in captivity. And today we are calling on international organizations to condemn these disgraceful courts that Russia is making up. We call on international organizations to prevent these theatred courts from taking responsibility for this shameful destruction of Ukrainian prisoners of war, which is in violation of all the norms of international humanitarian law. So we believe that the international community will help together.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u19	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Andriy Andriyovich, the faction of the political party "Golos". After that, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. And then we move on to the agenda. I ask you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, because we will have a number of questions immediately without discussion to vote. Please, Andrew Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u20	God bless all Ukrainians and Ukrainian friends in Ukraine and not Ukraine! Friends, there has been a great deal of social media in recent times, but unfortunately, we do not get out of the rostrum by raising sharp questions about Parliament’s subjectivity. I don't think I'm going to tell you the news that Parliament has long lost its subjectivity, that the majority of people with the Office are one organism, that serving someone's "hotels" is probably more on time, that the opposition has no word but the performance, but their thoughts don't count. But it's much worse here. It turns out, I'm amazed, like a lot of Ukrainians in Ukraine and not in Ukraine, and also our foreign colleagues and partners have learned that since 2019, we've been preparing for aggression. At the time when we cut the defense order, when we practically closed the missile program. It turns out we were so prepared to defend our country. I've already mentioned from this rostrum that information-psychological operations against my country are prohibited. You can do this, but you will be responsible. The recently active president practically documented himself as being aware. And all the other steps that have been taken, including criminal inaction, will also be at the heart of things that will be revealed. And we will win, of course! Well, and the cherry on the cake that appears about the seventh day after the invasion only when the office realized that he could be safe in Kiev, they came back and started destroying their political opponents. The cherry on the cake is now a criminal case for the defense of Kyiv Airport against General Krivonos. It's a criminal matter. Friends, not for protection, but for defense! And I would like to remind you that it's different things to protect some property and defend my country! It's an honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u21	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni. I understand that, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u22	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, have you bought warm blankets yet? I think so. I think even, frankly, that even diesel generators have someone who's lucky, and solar power supplies, as NAC head Naftogazu advises. Can you please tell me if we can change the NAC function of Naftogazu at all? If you do not know how to extract gas, buy warm blankets and give them to Ukraine’s population of 10 million, 20 million. Maybe we should change ownership policy for NAC Naftogazu? By the way, my friends, today we're going to be looking at another very interesting bill on the 12.7 billion dollar line of credit through Ukraine's Naftogaz NAC budget. And you don't think that this black hole, which has existed in Ukraine for many years, could absorb a lot more billions, but the situation won't change? All right, God be with them, with blankets. And the other money that I personally and the whole country heard a few days ago. It turns out there's a little detail, $10 billion with you, the country's not enough to go through the heating season. Well, this little bag is like 10 billion, and it's gonna be okay. Tell me, you don't understand that it is the presence of such managers, starting with Vitrek at Naftogazu NAK, in the background of total lack of audit, transparency, a fall in the production of all negative results, that is the main risk to the country's energy security. You'll recall that as early as the 14th year, when the Naftogaz NAC had 114 billion dollars, that was over $10 billion at the time. Where did they go? Where's the gas? Where is the gas that we lack and may be missing this heating season? How long can this experiment go on? I, by the way, agree with the Prime Minister's position when he says that the main risks today are: (a) the threat of missile attacks on infrastructure and (b) the management of energy companies. We've created a temporary special commission with you that needs to be monitored, audited Naftogazu, monitored Naftogazu's balance sheet, and then you and I will realize that blackmail is inappropriate, Ukrainian gas is enough for a normal heating season. The strategic reserve had to be made long ago, but decisions needed to be made. And I hope that our TSC, where important colleagues have entered, will work and report to the country what needs to be done and who needs to be punished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is over. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, and we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. But before we move on, I propose, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, that we conduct a signal vote to predict the results of the vote on matters of order. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the signal vote. I'm reminding you that it's necessary to hold down the sensor button by pressing the "Z" green button and keeping these two buttons simultaneously until the results are complete, that is, before the results of the vote appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready? I'm calling for a vote. Dear colleagues, the signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:57]] For 270. There are voices. 270-in, 9-again, 3-in. It's all the same. All right, good fellows. Thank you. Then let us move on to the day - to - day issues. I'll ask the national deputies to concentrate. From the procedure? Irina Volodymyrna's character. I don't see a reporter. Please sit down, colleagues. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we ask you to put the order of the day of Order 7260 into order today, this is the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that Parliament's decision has increased the funding of the Council channel five times, and now it's almost 500 million dollars. At the same time today, our voters with you, and these are the voters of all factions, don't know what Parliament lives for. They don't even think Parliament is working. And we suggest that in the network of "The Council" in the record, taking into account the security moments, there be a recording of our debates with you, of discussions that relate to very important laws. Because today we will be discussing both the Media Act and the Olenovac Order to support our prisoners of war. And it is only right that the country, our electorate, all the categories be aware of how Parliament lives. That is why we turn to the honourable Lord of the Head and to the House.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u25	Thank you. I'm reporting that the agenda was voted on by the Conciliation Council, the issue was there, there was no support. So let's move on to the agenda. Dear colleagues, 7087, these are the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Delimitation of the Functioning of State Authorities and Local Self-Government for the Protection of the Rights of Children in relation to the Establishment of the Ukrainian State Service for Children. Dear colleagues, we agreed that without discussion we only voted on the President's amendments and the bill as a whole. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote immediately. I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, the President's proposals, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on President number one's proposal for Bill 7087. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:41:52]] For 311 Offer accepted. I'm voting on the President's proposal under number two to Bill 7087. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:19]] For 313 Decision taken. I'm voting on the President's proposal under number three before Bill 7087. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:43]] For 314 Offer accepted. I'm voting on the President's proposal under number 4 before Bill 7087. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:07]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now propose to accept, in general, the proposal of the President of Ukraine, Bill 7087. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:37]] For 317 Decision taken. The law was passed in general, taking into account the President's proposals. Dear colleagues, the next bill we're voting on is Bill 7639. This is a draft decree for the execution by the heads of the military administrations of the population in the Donetsk area of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. I'm proposing to include this draft decree, the bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:44:21]] For 325 Decision taken. I would like to make a proposal to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the implementation by the heads of military administration of the settlements in the Donetsk area of powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration number 7639). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:54]] For 324 Decision taken. Adopted as a whole. Yes, please, let's move on. The next decision is also uncontroversial. This is a draft resolution on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances that led to the death of Judge Kremenczuk Poltawsk of the Lobodenka Region of Alexander Stanislavovic and the city head of the city of Kremenchuk Poltav district of Babejev Oleg Meidanovic. The registration number of the bill is 7612. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments set out in the draft Decree. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:49]] For 311 The decision was taken in general with the necessary technical and legal ones. The following three projects are 7473, 7473-1 and 7473-d. We agreed, too, without discussion. So I'm going to propose to include these bills in the agenda of the day session first. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:25]] For 315 Decision taken. I'm proposing to take the basis for the drafting of regulations, in accordance with the first part of Article 116, Bill 7473-d. This is a draft law amending some legislation to simplify access to free legal aid. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:03]] For 313 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline and the amendments to prepare for the second reading. [[12:47:25]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill 7683. We agreed to discuss it, yes. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the taxation of real estate transactions that will be built in the future. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day 7683. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:07]] For 268. Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the issue in accordance with part three of article 50 and article 101 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on Bill 7683. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:39]] For 254 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:00]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have an agreement: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against it. Right? Please sign up: two in, two in. I'm asking the National MPs not to break up, because literally in minute 5 we can go to the vote. Please log in. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy, Zarski Maksim Valentinovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u26	Request to pass on the word to Gethmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u27	Please, Danilo Alexanderovich the Getmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, this bill is quite simple in its content and at the same time essential for the construction industry. We supported and voted in favour of Bill 5091, which introduces a new subject of civil rights, the so - called MONA, or the future object of real estate that is subject to registration. At the same time, according to the current tax legislation, if we run this system now, it will mean that the builder will be obliged to pay the tax at the time of registration of this object of civil rights, that is, long before it was implemented. This is unfair, it is wrong, and it does not conform to the principle of taxation, according to which taxation should be carried out when there is a source. And the source is the cost that the developer receives from the investor, from the consumer. That's what we're talking about in our bill, according to which VAT is paid at the time of receipt of the money, i.e. the cash method, at the time of receiving the money from the investor. A very simple, very clear and very useful bill for the industry. Please support the green and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u29	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the Political Party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u31	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, everything would be fine if we didn't make a bunch of changes that had confused the tax system, and now we're talking about the reverse. That is, if the authorities want to pay the tax but cannot justify its purpose, they immediately offer a cashier’s method. I want to remind you of the cash method theory or when it's applied, the cash method. In the supply of goods and services in the areas of housing and utilities: it's heat, gas, water, maintenance of buildings, which are mass consumers of citizens who can't do the math at the same time. And that's why there's no way in hell for suppliers to pay their taxes. There is no such thing in the area of housing construction. Project 7683 therefore proposes to introduce a cash flow method for VAT and income tax on the first sale of a new or future unfinished housing. Will this reduce the cost of housing? No, it won't. Housing services? No, it won't. The value is shaped by a market. Will this initiative affect the budget’s income? Of course it will. You just told me that we're united and we're helping the army with the money. What is this initiative for today? Will this lead to an increase in the number of newly built dwellings? Of course, it won't, because there's going to be a total overestimation of the territorial values right now by the builders who are going to build housing. So either way, there is no consistency or predictability. The government is going to play a favorite initiative that comes out of power, so we're going to hold on to voting for this bill, and I'm going to suggest that the government think again before supporting such initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u33	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Head. We need to understand that the building industry is not just a building, where bricks make up and concrete plates, it's a lot of enterprises that are being built up. That's why we have to go out on the adoption of this bill exclusively for the development of the domestic industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u35	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tsabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u37	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I'll explain. It happened that I was the head of the working group under this bill. Let's be honest, last week we all voted 5091 with you, this is a law that determines that if the apartment just started building, of course at the boiler stage, it's already entered into the register of future real estate. In fact, the apartment is not yet built, but it is already an object of property rights. That's why you have to change the Tax Code, because you're the only one that's investing, you're actually doing the first event, so you're introducing the cash method, and then there's the question of reselling at the time of construction. It wasn't taxed before, now that we have the property, even though it's virtual, it would be taxed accordingly. The decision, supported by Minfin, was supported by members of the committee, including representatives of the industry, who taxed the sales difference of 18 percent. So we're actually increasing taxation, although frankly, it's not going to be that much. So you can easily define your position on this bill. If you voted in favour of 5091, it's a technical bill that you have to vote on, or it doesn't work, more than that, it's provided for by the law itself. If you have not voted or have any problems, or if you change your position on the main bill, you do not support it. The big corruption risks I see there, what I can't see, so figure out how you're going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, would anyone else like to step out of this bill? No, it's not. Then I ask the national deputies to take their seats. More? Please, Shahov. I'm sorry, I'm out of glasses, and you're in another dress today. Please, National Deputy Shahov. And then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u40	Ironman made it very clear that this is a technical bill, and we need to support it. We need to support the construction industry, we need to support entrepreneurs today. And the main thing is to support the social fabric of people who are now without apartments, without houses. 13 million refugees today in Ukraine. And I'd like to hear what we're building for the settlers and the refugees. They were displaced, they became refugees. After all, when we hear how much housing has been built for the refugees, how many people have been resettled, how many have returned, and how many have begun to receive both jobs and normal housing today. We know that today the homeless who run with suitcases from one city to another are plagued by neighbors, maids, brothers, millions of people. Please explain, Your Honor. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Taxation of Real Estate Transactions that will be built in the future. Bill 7683 registration number. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:58:33]] For 249 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments for preparation for second reading, Bill 7683 registration number. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:03]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, the following bills: 7709 and 7627 -- we agreed to discuss it together, but to vote on the individual. So I'm proposing to include Bills 7709 and 7627 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:43]] For 311 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner, in the format that we discussed with you at the Conciliation Council. Please vote. [[13:00:07]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: authors, then two in favour, two in opposition, and we move on to the vote. So, please, who do we have on the first draft of Rule 7709? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, your opinion is on the proposal to refer the Supreme Council to the world community for violations by the Russian Federation and its de-occupational de-occupational bodies of international humanitarian law in relation to military prisoners and defenders of Ukraine. We point out that, according to international humanitarian law, all persons who are part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are combatants who, in the event of capture, enjoy all the rights of prisoners of war who cannot be judged for participating in military activities or for actions that do not violate international humanitarian law. We stress the rightfulness of participating in the military actions of the military personnel in a separate law of special appointment of "Azov" in the status of combatants and the grounds and their belongings to a separate military section of the National Guard of Ukraine and the subordination of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We remind you that Ukrainian military officials have defended Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity by heroically defending Mariupol against the occupying forces of the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, we strongly condemn the actions of the Russian Federation and call for every possible effort to prevent the creation of such a theatred court aimed at the physical destruction of Ukrainian prisoners of war, which will have no legal effect and constitute a grave violation of international humanitarian law, international human rights law. We call for a strong condemnation and accountability of the Russian Federation for the numerous violations of international humanitarian law, international human rights in respect of the protection of the rights of prisoners of war, committed during the international armed conflict it has solved in Ukraine. Efforts are being made to stop violations by the Russian Federation of International Humanitarian Law and to comply with international legal obligations to deal with war-torn defenders and defenders of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the special temporary commission asks you to support this draft decree and to contact the international community. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u43	Thank you very much, Alexander Sergiyovich. I invite the author of Decree 7627, the draft decree, Vladimir Igorovich Ariev, and then we discuss them together, and we vote separately. Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u44	Honorary colleagues, addressing the United Nations Organization, the European Union, the European Council, the OSCE, parliaments and governments of NATO member states, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the independent international medical humanitarian organization Doctors Without Borders, condemning the mass execution of Ukrainian prisoners of war by the aggressor State in Olenovac on July 29, 2022. What happened in Olenovac is in no way called a terrorist act. That is why we must act as a parliament because society wants us to respond to this act of vandalism and terrorism immediately. I want to remind you that the Russian Federation, which declared itself to be the successor of the Soviet Union, and the Soviet Union signed and ratified the Convention on the Treatment of Prisoners of War, signed in Geneva in 1949, is refusing to implement article 8 which shows that countries with regard to the treatment of prisoners of war have to determine the state which will be in both countries whose representatives will take care of the rights of prisoners of war. Unfortunately, the Russian Federation is absolutely spitting on the norms of international law. So the only way out is to get the international community to push on Russia further. And just by the pressure on the Russian Federation, because this bandit terrorist country only understands power, we can do something. The terms of some sort, some sort of conjecture, won't add anything to the negotiations. That's why I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have agreed to discuss these two draft decrees in a coherent manner. Therefore, I would like to ask the members of the people to sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss these draft regulations. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Abdullin Alexander Rafkatovich, the faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u46	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, both statements are essential for voting today by the Supreme Council’s sessional hall. They were needed not only today but much earlier. They are extremely important as a principle the political position of the Ukrainian Parliament, calling on all international institutions to agree with the aggressors with the prisoners of war. The deer girl was indeed a challenge to all of the world's societies. It was an act of vandalism. It's an act of terrorism. And it needs to be qualified and investigated by international experts. So far, we have not heard the answer to what happened there. But the fact remains that the Russian aggressor does not make any contact. We should not only condemn but also demand an immediate response. On the other hand, international institutions have demonstrated their impotence and inability to make quick decisions and respond harshly to acts of fascism and terror. Today, the Fatherland faction votes in favour of the first and second decrees, because they are essential. Not only should we vote, we should continue to insist and demand the creation of joint international commissions, so that the results of the stagnant process can be achieved as quickly as possible, and we need to know the fate of every prisoner of war. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u47	Heroim Slava! The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u48	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u49	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u50	Honorary colleagues, the Russian Federation, which has been waging a terrorist war against Ukraine since 2014, has defiantly, cynically and systematically violated all mental norms of international law. We are no longer surprised when it comes to violations of the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the international covenants on civil political rights, and so forth. But even when we see such a systematic violation of international law by the aggressor country, we have to react. And the latest developments that are accompanied by the informational nuisance of our prisoners of war, and the military officers of the special assignment "Azow" are the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, because they are. The National Guard, I apologize, the National Guard and the Armed Forces, the security and defence sectors, as they are subordinated to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And the Geneva Convention on the Treatment of Prisoners of War explicitly and clearly prohibits any action that is contrary to the public policy of dealing with prisoners of war. That's why the Russian Federation's initiation of some quasi-judicial institutions, quasi-judicial processes over prisoners of war, specifically the military prisoners of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, such as the Azov military, is a gross and systematic violation of international law. Thus, by today’s appeal to the Supreme Council, by today’s ruling, we again urge the United Nations, the International Committee of the Red Cross, other authoritative international institutions to step up sanctions on the Russian Federation and force it to respect international law, the honor and dignity of our prisoners of war. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u51	Please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then Sussun Inna Romanovna, followed by Bacunec Pavel Andriovich. Please. Oh, they're handing it over to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u52	Pass Arieva over, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u53	Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u54	I am very glad that political moments have gone away and that we can, by unifying the hall, vote in favour of both. They're both important, and they're different, in fact. In one we're talking about going to the world to condemn the future of the so-called theater, which is going to try to make the racists in Mariupola, destroyed by the racist forces, the defenders of Mariupol, and the other to condemn the murder, the cynical murder of Russian terrorists by Ukrainian defenders in Olenovac. I think we should do this as a parliament right now, and I've met with relatives of the prisoners and those who have disappeared, and they've asked you to pass, vote for it, do whatever you can to make a higher legislative body that can bring our prisoners, our protectors, close to being released. This is because of constant pressure on the Russian Federation, which, apart from the language of power, does not understand. I just want to remind you of one thing. Now there are dozens of prisoners of war, including women, and one of them is pregnant. And that's why we ask you to focus as much as possible, especially on Doctors Without Borders, in order to first release them. And the more alone we are, the more likely we are to bring our heroes home.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u55	Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna, faction of the political party Voice. Samantha Bobrowski. Please, Samantha Anatolyevna. Then the Bakunec, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Samantha.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u56	Bobrovska Solomiya, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm very sorry that at this point in the session hall there is a galatasarai and a mess. Because for the first time, it's about the deer and all of your friends, the army boys and the girls that are there. And you know, it's a great honor for me to get at least some news from there, and one of the sentences the boys are writing from there is hopefully they haven't forgotten about us. I'm ashamed that, once again, there's such a mess when we're talking about not just the outside of the box, but what's going on in us and how much we're raising this question between us. And I'm sad that even though GUR runs this track publicly, few of us here, unless we say at all, understands neither the procedure nor the fidbek, nor the ways in which we communicate with families of those not only in Olenovac, but in other places where we keep prisoners of war. Nobody knows anything. We understand that this is a rather sensitive question. We know you can't pick up names, names and so on. But, dear fellows, if we keep quiet about this, no one will do this job except us. Moreover, I am one of the cohorts of people who believe that no grain or other commercial history can leave the ports until the Ukrainian Commissioner for Human Rights or Vice-Prime Minister, or the President, or anyone authorized from the State of Ukraine, visits or falls into the custody of our prisoners of war and our Olenovac. And these statements were supposed to sound here in the middle of May, but not at the end of August -- in early September, when they were mentioned after terrible attacks. You know, one more thing. I'm very much asking those who have their own submerged marines, the border guards, the National Guard and so forth, and so on, look and follow all those, and this is the request of those who are in Olenovac, who are now serving in the ranks of the Armed Forces and in the ranks of the defense. I'm really sorry if they wore these bras today. This is a task that we have in common with you so that these people will receive the merit of serving 111 articles in prison today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, closing address, Paul Andriovich Bakunec. Then we go to the vote for both projects. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to address this issue in silence. Imagine, though, that if your family or family had been captured by war, it would be a day - to - day concern for all family members. They hope for the diplomacy of our government, you may be hoping for international organizations that their relatives will soon return home. And here's Lenyukka, the fact of vandalism, the fact that the invader's terrorism is in our territories. This is a pain for the families of our prisoners of war. And believe me, every single one of you has to turn and scream on all the playgrounds, and today support both the decisions, and make as many calls as it takes to keep the prisoners in proper condition and to be returned home in a diplomatic way.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. As agreed, I'm putting these bills in turn, and we're voting and deciding on each of them. First Bill 7709. I'm going to make an offer to accept in general, taking into account the Commission's proposals with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Council of Europe, the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the parliaments and governments of the world with regard to violations by the Russian Federation and the de facto occupying bodies of international humanitarian law with regard to military prisoners and defenders of Ukraine (Registration No. 7709). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:20]] For 309 Decision taken. I now propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Union, the European Council, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, parliaments and governments of the NATO member states, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Independent International Medical Humanitarian Organization, Doctors Without Borders, on the condemnation of the mass execution of Ukrainian warlocks in Olenovac on 29 July 2022. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:15]] For 316 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill is the draft Media Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Registration number 2693-2, 2693-d. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please proceed. Herasims of procedure, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u60	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, request the presidency to put Irina Heraszczenko's proposal for inclusion in the agenda of our sitting today. Request to put the room to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u61	Thank you, Arthur Vladimirovich. But we've come to the point. One day you're not in time. Dear colleagues, we begin our consideration of this matter. I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:32]] For 225 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, as we agreed, two in favor, two in favour, against whether we should let the authors speak? Give it to the authors then. Please, I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Knieżický Mikol Leonidovic as the author of the bill 2693-2, then Póturaje Mikita Ruslanović as the author of the compatible bill 2693-d, then two in favour, two in opposition, and then we vote. This is the first reading, based on. Please, Mikola Knieżicki. Please miss the National Deputy of the Prince and release the passages, your fellow officers.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u62	Friends, we were the authors of a good European project and agreed to support other projects two years ago, but unfortunately, these projects have been changed, and these changes are catastrophic. I'll be speaking later in the discussion, and I'll talk about it again. You know, when things are quiet and quiet, we forget there's a war going on. So we are united, and now one of us is proposing to leave Catherine III. We're offered a law "d," which, unlike our law, allows us to launch the Lepsov, the Kirkorov without any restrictions, repeals the Russian Music Prohibition Act. We are asked to vote in favour of a law that repeals so-called black lists until new ones are created. This means that Mikhalkov, the Pozekeks have the right to speak on our televisions -- those people who kill Ukrainians will promote "Russian peace" here. Our law with the letter "2" is the Ukrainian law, the law with the letter "d" is the law that brings Russia here. It is a law that restores national television contrary to all our European obligations. It's a law that repeals the ban on the broadcast of films that promote the NCCD and the army of the aggressor country. Dear colleagues, this is a very responsible vote. I ask you to uphold the law with the letter "2" and in no way vote for the law, where the letter "d" is a law that tries to bring "Russian peace" back to Ukraine, because some people think that the war in Ukraine is over, and the cost-effective complex is once again pulling them to lick Putin's boots. Let's not let this happen, because we're going to be ashamed to look into the eyes of those who are now throwing the aggressor's music out of European playgrounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u63	He is represented by the authors of Bill 2693, the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev. Please, as from the authors and as from the committee, four minutes so that you can express all the points of view. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u64	No changes to the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language, no reductions in the Ukrainian language. [[B in m in s a l in]] A fine example of a civilized European discussion. I hoped that today we would have European solidarity in the hall around the beautiful European law. Unfortunately, we see absolutely anti-European politics in Parliament today. I'm sorry. Well, it is. I have to do more, I think, in the sense of growing in the sense of European culture, in the sense of implementing European standards of politics and so on. But let's go back to the law. So, on the contrary, the increase in the national music quota to 40 percent. [[B in m in s a l in]] You see.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u65	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, one second. I'm sorry. Let's do it anyway. Everyone listened to you very carefully. Give us a chance to speak. If there is a need to scream, come out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u66	That's what happens when there's no argument. It's really hard to argue when we talk about facts, and opponents call for emotion. Next. Of course, there's no such thing as showing up here completely unrespected people from the aggressor nation of killers and invaders on our television screens or on the radio. On the contrary, we defend so-called black lists by introducing a transparent and clear procedure for their formation, which no European court will be able to charge with, above all, the European Court of Human Rights. What Ukrainian independent mediators and European experts have warned Ukrainian politicians even before the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, and unfortunately, precedents when the state was forced to fire people from so-called black lists were at risk of turning, not Russians, but Western artists, such as artists, at risk of going to the European Court of Justice. They were cleaned because they knew there would be shame on the state that the European Court of Human Rights would lose. That's why it was arranged. You can argue with the second reading, you can find more effective mechanisms. Colleagues, the law, it's pro-European on the other hand. And to meet one of the seven requirements. First of all, colleagues, he's pro-Ukrainian, he's needed by Ukraine, he's needed to strengthen Ukrainian media. I want to end by saying, in a sense, that my time is up, and then I'll say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on: two in favour, two in opposition. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, People's Servant faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u68	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please pass the word to Mr. Poturay.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u69	Mr. Poturaev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u70	So, colleagues, what do we have to do with you? We're going to have to work out some things that were fairly raised yesterday by the members of the Conciliation Board until the second reading. It's important, responsible, but not so hard work, because in principle, almost all factions have consensus. And I hope that there will be consensus, even with those who are now unjustly accusing the authors of, as if, because we are spreading lies. There are no controversies, so this is the kind of discussion you've heard. Even I have supported the committee, I want to draw your attention, colleagues, to the unprecedented decision for our Parliament, which may even violate the Rules a little bit, in the hope that we will have a dialogue and that we need to have a dialogue about the second reading. And the committee proposed its decisions and suggested that it increase, not reduce, but increase the deadline for proposals and amendments to the law to 21 days. But today, today (this is the whole room that saw the desire for a dialogue) I'm not sure, I'm not sure that I'm personally convinced that the decision that I voted for on the committee, especially the extension of the terms, that we're really productive in the second reading, I'm not convinced that I want to support this increase. I think that at this level of discussion of fractions that are constructively set up, and I've heard yesterday from those factions and groups that are constructively set up, totally receptive to the proposals, they're going to have enough for two weeks. And those colleagues who can only insult the authors, I think they'd lack a month to invent a new baseless manipulative image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u72	May I have your word to the Prince's Santa Claus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u73	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u74	Friends, well, there can be no compromise when we talk about protecting our national security, our language and our culture. Well, we don't have any compromises. And here are my friends from Lviv and Volina, who think we're going to vote in the first reading and then we're going to fix it. You, my friends, go back to Lvivščina and Volin! And not to do that, they're pushing to correct it later, but to repeal the law that Sofia was passing along with her colleagues, by the way, with Servant of the People, 7273, which prohibits Russian music from us on air, and they want to let her back in. They're really canceling completely black lists. For seven years we haven't let Russian artists and actors in here, and we've identified this BAF because they can tell us who's putting our safety at risk. And they propose to cancel them, and then, after a while, the Nakrad as a collegiate body will re-vote, they will vote, they will not. And there will be no lists, they will not act. But the National Council will have no competition, no court-martialed licenses in television channels. European law, you say? Do you remember that each member of the Nakrad under the Law on Local Self - Rule was put there when the Venezuelans were released? The president can free up at any time if some Russian actor suddenly wants to ban it, and this Russian actor is filmed in some movie. Guys, it's a shame to vote like this. This law, which returns state television, makes the "Council" channel broadcast to all media, without having to channel Parliament, contrary to the Constitution, they create state channels. It's a law that rejects us from Europe, which shuts us down to the European Union, and closes the way to the hearts of Ukrainians, because the Ukrainians who are fighting will not forgive us. For anyone who pushes the "Z" button.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u75	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Dear colleagues, Sergey Vladislavovich was after this. And then we go to the vote, invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u76	Please give it to Vitatrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u77	Please, Viátrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, one of my main tasks in Parliament is to protect Ukrainian information space, to protect Ukrainian language. I thought it was my job after February 24. I believed that you could all really unite to make this country Ukrainian. Because only Ukraine will stand against Russian aggression. But now the ruse is back in this room. I'm ashamed that at a time when our gunmen are protecting Ukraine, we're putting them in the back of a ruse knife. That is the law. We have a well-marked bill with a European flag in order of the day. There must be a tricolour, not a European flag. It is under the European flag that they want to reduce the radio’s Ukrainian music quota. They want to make sure that you, all who have been looking for racists on Ukrainian screens, can be satisfied again because they will appear again on the screens. Remember how happy we were that we finally passed a law that predicted that in Ukraine the impossible performances of Russian performers could not be listened to in Ukraine. Now that this bill has been passed, this law is right in the ball. He's shutting down, he's gone. It's a ruse. And who said we're supposed to cover up the last cracks for the "Russian world" -- no, you're dumping the door to the "Russian world" in Ukraine. Do not let this happen even in the first reading. You're being lied to. Unfortunately, this bill makes Ukraine weaker. Do not support him even in the first reading. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u79	The word is given by Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of "The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, after that, we move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Sergei Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u80	Sobolje, Fatherland. Unfortunately, the heated debate in the hall speaks of one thing: this law did not become the law of compromise, this law did not become the law of finding possible things that would have been voted in this session room. But there is another side that everyone understands perfectly when voting for this bill. We are well aware that this bill, as a minimum, is not for this year. This bill may not be for next year. We are all well aware of what is happening in the media market now, and our corresponding decision has settled these issues for a period of war. Therefore, there may be an offer from the authors of the amended bill to extend the period of amendment. But I think that now would be the perfect only option -- it would be to do everything possible to get this bill into the session hall, especially since it's a re-reading, it would be developed in a way that would allow all the factions to vote for it. We can see that this will not happen. For us, there are a few basic things that unfortunately came into this bill. This is regulation of electoral legislation. We are well aware that these issues are regulated by the Central Election Commission, not by the National Council on Television and Radio during the electoral process. And we're going to have a series of contrasts that are actually going to be mutually exclusive articles of the law. There we see absolutely no understanding of how this law will work for the media, which will be banned both during the war period and for a period, for example, of a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I would like to remind you that it is about the bill that the European Commission has asked us to address these issues. So please, we are preparing to make a decision. I propose to adopt the draft Media Act (registration number 2693-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:05]] For 233 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, it was agreed that the proposal would continue half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies please vote in favour of this proposal. Continue. Do not shorten, continue the line. [[13:38:38]] For 276 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The following Bill 7681, 7681—(tier) p.m. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022. I'm proposing to include these two bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:13]] For 268. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the beginning of the consideration of the issue, in accordance with part three of article 50 and article 101, both of these bills are to be determined as urgent and shortened by the introduction of alternatives. Please vote. [[13:39:46]] For 260 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:40:06]] For 258. Decision taken. We agreed: two in, two in, two in. So I'm asking you to sign up for your colleagues, and I'm asking you not to break up, because in five or six minutes, we can vote. Please register those factions and groups that want to discuss these bills. Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u82	Please give the word to Alexander Pasic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u83	Please, Alexander Pasicky.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u84	From the rostrum. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! As of today, one of the priorities facing the government and before us is the preparation and success of the autumn-winter heating season of 2022-2023. Thus, the acquisition of natural gas is a major task for our nation. Today, from our partners, namely, the Canadian government, Ukraine’s state budget has received credit for an amount of $450 million in credit terms to help buy gas before the heating season. This bill actually provides a mechanism that opens up the possibility of directing these funds directly to its acquisition. Thus, the implementation of this bill will allow for an external loan of 12.7 billion dollars for the purchase of natural gas, which will ensure the energy security of the state and the demand for consumption. Ukrainian consumers who are currently experiencing the most difficult times in the history of Ukraine's independence, and these are our citizens, budget organizations, the heat industry, and will allow them to have a heated season in wartime. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u85	Thank you. Please give the word to Irina Volodymyr's Hero, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u87	Please, Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've often been used to saying that these failures that we have, they can be written down there for war or something else, including the purchase of gas and the preparation for the heating period of 2022-2023, it looks like a failure, and that's probably what's causing the information that the minister wrote the release application, it's just going to be "hung all the dogs" on the current minister and say that he's failed preparations for the heating period. I'm going to tell you, as a senior deputy, that I have electoral districts, people are preparing themselves for a heated period, making wood, buying pellets and so on, and so on, because they're not counting on this government and this authority. And under these laws, I'm going to tell you that they're completely corrupt and that one entity's definition of purchasing natural gas shows that the government is looking for exactly how to steal this money by the maximum, because it's likely that the MPs haven't gotten the money in the envelopes in a long time, and it's probably going to be able to pay them back. We won't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u89	Please, the next Nestor Ivanovich Sufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Head. Today we can argue with the efficiency of government, but the fact that we have to have gas reserves to go through the winter is a definite one and, of course, today we have to support this bill and contribute to the energy security of our country during the fall-winter period. Of course, we are counting on our own strengths. Unfortunately, we realize that gas consumption will fall by 40 percent, but that doesn't mean we have to act confidently. We have to have reserves so that at any moment they can get gas online directly from European transport systems and warehouses. Today it is a challenge for us to be prepared. That is why this law must be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u91	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the Political Party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u92	Please pass the word to the Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u93	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, this bill, of course, we have to vote, there's nothing wrong with it. But just for those who honestly believe that it will save us in the winter, I'll give you two figures. By the way, they are in the conclusion of a committee that is not lazy, page 9, you can open, read. We need 3-4.9 billion cubic metres of gas in winter. It's worth over 3,000 dollars. Now we're looking at a $350 million purchase. Well, count how many days or how many, I don't think weeks will cover this loan. The other one. There is also an important norm to vote on: 2 billion for GUR. It's an extra $270 billion we've allocated to the military for defence at last plenary session of the week. But once again, in this case, the source of the loan is internal borrowing, just saying, the printing of the National Bank, which has already printed 285 billion. That's why. This law must be voted on, it will do no harm. Unfortunately, nothing good for the heating season is going to do, too, because we need more. Once again, it's 350 million, and we need about 10 billion. You can count the difference yourself. But when we vote these things, just remember that our deficit has already increased by six times this year, and eventually we're just going to stop having enough money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich. Then we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u96	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I'm already laughing at this theater of absurdity. And the previous speakers so confidently claim that we need to buy extra gas. But count it, if you've learned arithmetic, we're going to extract 19 billion cubic meters of gas, just like we extracted. We're down 40 percent, we're spending 18 to 18.5 billion. Ukrainian gas is sufficient, remember. I can't understand, we gave Naftogazu 150 billion dollars a month ago, but you pushed this idiotic, sorry, bill of moratorium on tariffs. So how much more money does Vitrek have to get out of the budget? That's why we're definitely against this bill, and we're going to support the alternative bill of Timoshenko, Soboljeva, Tsimbaluka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, still Shahov. And then we go to the vote. Please, National Deputy Shahov. Then we move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u98	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, hope for your friends, and don't get any worse. We've heard great numbers -- 3,000 dollars a gas in the market today. Is there not enough gas in Ukraine? That's enough. We need to increase our yield, we need to pump up the best, the biggest warehouses for European-scale gas, we. The largest gas warehouses are 33 billion cubic metres, and we can then sell our gas to Europe, making money, giving jobs, building shelters for refugees, allowing people to move on, live in Ukraine, and fill Ukraine's budget, and not running with an extended hand to their partners, give money. In every crisis we have to look for a way out of this crisis today, and that's what Churchill said. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u99	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. Ready, colleagues? I propose to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2022 (registration number 7681). Ready to vote? Ready, colleagues? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:44]] For 272 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2022 (registration number 7681), taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:51:24]] For 266 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Bill 7668 is a bill amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on excise duties and a whole series of related alternative bills. Prepare for the vote, please. I'm making an offer. Colleagues, prepare for the vote! I propose to include in the agenda of the day's session Bill 7668 and all the alternative bills that are submitted to it, i.e. 7668-1, 7668-2, 7668-3, 7668-d. People's deputies are requested to vote in the agenda of the day session. [[13:52:51]] For 239. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:14]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, two in favor, two in favour. I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies. Excuse me, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u100	Oh, the authors. I'm sorry. Let's get the authors. The authors are: First Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Shkurakov, People's Deputy of Razumkov, People's Deputy of Železniak, People's Deputy of Jujanina, People's Deputy of Getmants. That's the order. I invite you to the floor of Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Vasil Aleksandrovitch Skurakov. Please, Vasil Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the national parliament, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Tax Rates (Registration No. 7668) introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill proposes to make changes that are set before the end or cancellation of the military, an extraordinary state in Ukraine of excise duty on petrol, heavy distillers and other oil products, an alternative of 100 euros per 1,000 litres. In order to reconcile the Tax Code, it is also possible to make appropriate changes to section X of the Transitional Positions for the preservation of the added tax amount of 7 per cent. If the bill is adopted, the State Road Fund's revenues will amount to about 3 million dollars per month, which will account for 86.56 per cent of this road fund tax, and the rest of 13.44 will be included in the local general budget fund. Such an increase in the revenue of the State Road Fund will enable the full and timely execution of all necessary payments from the execution of Ukrainian debt obligations for borrowing, State-owned or state-owned guarantees for the development of a road network for general use, and the allocation of part of the State Fund's funds in other directions, including maintenance and preparation of roads for the autumn-winter period. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u102	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Dmitry Alexanderovich, author of the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u103	Good day again, dear fellows! You all remember well what happens when there is no gasoline. When we cleaned up the excise, we understood that it was a norm that allowed us to get the economy back. Now we're getting close to the soybean, now we're getting closer to the agrarian company again, any increase in excise duty today is a plus on the ceiling of 3 to 4.5 bracelets. All of this must be understood and understood. We can't keep changing business every week. The alternative bill, in particular, suggests that, after any change that takes place on the committee concerned, decisions be made only three months after the decision has been made. Let's finish that vacchanal that's going on in the tax area today. First, we cancel the bribe. In a few weeks, we'll be back. Now we're talking about, let's add 10 percent to the exchange operations, today -- let's add 100 euros to 1,000 liters. But this will result in you and me eventually gaining the Ukrainian economy that is still breathing. Let's help the Ukrainian business, not squeeze the last one out of it. That is what entrepreneurs expect of us today. This will enable us to return to normal work. That's exactly what will fulfill the promise made in the 19th year that rules and relations between power and business will be predicted. And we do not need to be at war today when some of our colleagues try to tell us that this is in connection with war and war. Let us think at least one step ahead, not as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u104	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I have a very simple bill. We forgot about biofuels, although they're making them in Ukraine. I'm comparing the bet to zero. I'm going to try to lay out in peace enough what this law and the next budget law are all about, it's really the most important. We have a system in the state when excises are collected, they're going to the road fund, so it's funding to build roads or repairs. That was always the case, until March 15. On March 15, government officials came to us, the national MPs said that the price would go up on oil, the price on the ceiling would go up, the excise duty would go down, and the VAT would go down. This cost the state 96 billion. This decision was wrong, but it has no longer brought about 96 billion. Here, on August 14, the government mentioned that it was sometimes necessary to repair roads or rebuild something that had been destroyed by Russian scum. And now he's offering us to return these excises, arguing with two things. First. That oil prices are falling. That's not true. When we canceled, the price of oil was $99. Now it's 102 dollars. Growth trend. So when you vote for this law, prices will go up. The other one. However, there is a need to rebuild the damaged infrastructure. I'm a small builder, but I'm just wondering what we're going to rebuild in November, December and January? Well, as far as I know, they just don't do construction these months. So, dear fellows, I will not uphold this law. I can tell you how the procedure was broken, but the logic itself is broken. And most importantly, we've now decided that these expenses are going to war. They clean up and want to get back on the road. Then decide for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u106	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Arthur Volodymyrovich, come here. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, today we must make more consistent balanced decisions than ever before. I'm addressing you people's deputies, because the authorities can't do quality work right now and give us draft laws that we can vote for. Please tell me what happened in five months when the fuel price was zero euros per thousand liters? Fuel prices increased by 45 percent. There are no logical ways. Logic paths were even more expensive than they were at the beginning. And we have a huge question about fuel supply and accumulation. And at this time without proper justification, without thinking about our agrarians, most of you will now vote here on this bill, which sets out nothing based on excise taxes. Excise tax is the easiest way to get into some special fund. We've talked about this several times before on the committee. I am surprised by the united forces here now to extend these laws and then to divest the foundation. That's sweet. They're talking about voting and tomorrow you'll get it. Shame on you! I've been preparing this bill with my colleagues to get our minds back on how we're supposed to implement excise policy. The excise policy is really needed in the country, and that's why we built this bill exclusively on a European directive that includes protecting our own crops, which sets the minimum wage for agrarians. As it turns out, every country cares about this, except for Ukraine. Unfortunately, you will be familiar with a bill today that has no bearing on the gradual transition to excise payments. Please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich. A speech from you and a speech from the committee, as far as I can tell. And then, dear colleagues, we go to the discussion: two in favour, two in favour, and then we vote against. Danilo Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! War is definitely not a time for populists, war is a time for statesmen to make the necessary decisions for the country, not popular decisions that should take responsibility, not run the hall, telling stories that they themselves do not believe in in in politics. The bill is very simple. The Cabinet of Ministers invites us to return, in part, the excises that we have cancelled with you in connection with the problem in the fuel market, which we all remember in the spring. There are no such problems today, it is obvious, and fuel is clearly the object of taxation that money should give. And money is a weapon, money for an army, money for our pensioners, money for military support, money for victory, after all. I don't even know the source of this discussion, whether I should be taxing fuel or not to be taxed on fuel in war. Guys, come on! Surprisingly, let's finally take statehood for once in your life and not populism for such a frail, socialist populism that you don't believe in. Well, that's a shame. My friends, we're returning 100 euros per tonne of petrol, 100 euros per tonne of diesel, we're returning 52 euros per tonne of clumped gas, we're balancing bioethanol in a gas pond. This is a partial measure that the Ministry of Economics doesn't think will affect the price. But even if it does, there's a war in the country, a man who's fueling a car has to give a part to an army that protects both this man and this car and this diesel. My friends, war is a time for responsible decisions, war is a time for statesmen, not politicians. So I urge everyone to support this decision with a green button, to enter into some debate on the size of the stakes committee, we will definitely conduct it, I promise you, for the second reading, and to make a normal balanced decision in favor of one single goal that should unite us all -- victory, not populism -- is victory. And after the victory, let's play populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the drafters of the bill have spoken. Now I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, against those who want, and then we move on to making a decision. Please sign in: two in, two in. Please, Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u111	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please give the word to Alexander Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u112	Please, Alexander Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to speak in support of these words by the honourable chairman of the committee, Danil Alexandrovich, and I would like to support the distinguished members of the Committee of Finance and Taxes, who have supported the initiative by their majority, understanding the difference between popular or populist decisions and very important decisions. This decision is very important, as noted, both for the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and for the restoration of infrastructure objects. Today, it has been said that agriculture, construction, and other industries will find it difficult to pay a higher price for energy. And let's talk about that if the agrarians don't pay more today and, according to the Ministry of Economics, this price is not going to be significantly higher, they just won't be able to deliver their ready-made products to the point of delivery of this finished product because the costs have to be directed and will be directed towards restoring the infrastructure, and these are roads and bridges. And you and I understand very well that in order to create the conditions for logistics, we need to make decisions with you and set up these costs, first collect them, and then send them to the infrastructure objects listed. I thank everyone who votes green, please vote green. This is the first reading, for the second reading we will have many opportunities to discuss with law enforcement colleagues, to consider them and to make the only right decision. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u114	Please, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u116	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u117	Mosquito populism in this room was when you fired excises on the fuel on March 15th. Mosquito populism, when you go out and you talk about white black, when you say now that prices don't go up. They're going to grow by 5 even more. And that's not going to apply to people you care deeply about, because at committee meetings, you said that everyone who travels on the road should pay for the roads. So I'm talking about the same thing, but now you're setting excise rates for all spheres of activity and activity in Ukraine, so all products are going to be priced up, and when the Ministry of Economics says that inflation is going to be a small percentage, that means that it will be, and they don't know how to count this inflation. This diesel fuel will increase for over 40,000 agri-enterprises, diesel fuel will increase for carriers in the absence of alternative ways of exporting Ukrainian products, diesel will increase for the UCC, Nazgardia, IMF, which is now being financed mainly by borrowing. This will increase the scrapped gas for thousands of enterprises that have adapted to save and continue to work at a high price for natural gas. So when you talk about mossy populism, look in the mirror first, look at your face, what it is now and what it looks like. I'm calling all the deputies again. Please think more professionally, don't buy the kind of explanation that they're trying to give you here, let's just put a hundred, let's just do ten tomorrow, we're just not going to be, because the economy is the second front, pay attention and vote in favour of an alternative with three, it's a professional bill that will help us implement and fill in anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u118	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u119	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Danilo Alexanderovich Getmants, I certainly can't be blamed for not saying anything about canceling excises is a stupid decision, and it's his responsibility. 96 billion were taken away during the war. Moreover, the same person who proposed this decision then goes to the media and tells us that we need to cut taxes now, and we vote for the increase. Either we're stupid, national MPs, and they're smart in the President's Office, or someone's very clever. One more time and one more time. Dear colleagues, look what you'll be voting for right now, if you're interested. This bill, it will bring money to the special fund, the road fund of Ukraine. During the war, you and I voted that all of Ukraine's money goes for two expenses: first, it's external borrowing, so there's no default, second, it's military spending. And that's normal, that's consistent with what your colleagues said. We collected taxes, bought weapons, paid salaries to the military. Now the government of another law, another one that we're going to vote on, wants to clear this rule and send it on the road. According to the Mini Infrastructure, we really need to repair bridges and other moves by 11.3 billion. Everything else is going to be building roads. So tell me, a man from Mariupol who has a huge number of even homeless people, without a hometown, unfortunately tell me, please, we don't have money to build even basic temporary buildings right now, do we really want to send this money to build roads? Is that okay? Well, I just don't understand how we can afford this kind of decision. And that's why I'm not going to support this or any other bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u120	Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u121	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, in fact, when you press the button, you need to answer just one question: are you ready to go back to the Big Building today by taking the money out of this excise specifically from every person in Ukraine, from every agrarian? You know, so the next soybean is in danger at all. Where else can they raise their fuel prices? You'll be ready if you vote to take the money out of the army, because you'll also go to the army with fuel travel. And all of this you're going to collect and send to Big Building? Are you ready for this? Are you really ready to continue to drive out people who no longer have jobs who have nothing to live for? If they might have some change, take the last one? That's not all. Keep in mind that excise duty should be paid before you cross the border with your fuel. And that means that those who supply fuel need to have additional circulation costs that they do not have today. This means that some fuel suppliers in Ukraine will not be able to supply further fuel. How long have you and I had a shortage of petrol and diesel? I don't think a decision like that can be made from a state standpoint. If someone wants to rebuild the nation’s construction, so does it. "Big Construction" means it's on someone's account. Think about who's doing this. So our team will definitely vote against the red buttons and we call on all the deputies who are against the army, the agrarians, the people taking the money off and giving it to the Big Building, not voting for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. We're moving on to a decision. What does the procedure mean? We agreed, we put one, we vote, we vote. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the first decision. Let's go through the first decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Code of Taxation for the period of validity of the legal regime of military, state of emergency (project registration number 7668-d). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:06]] For 236 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 7768-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:35]] For 235 Decision taken. Nina Yuzanin, please. What's the question? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, yesterday the committee rushed and made a decision without my alternative. An additional committee meeting was held today, and the committee made a second decision without replacing it first. And in this second decision today, the committee said that the draft law 3 should be determined in accordance with such articles of the Rules. We were not united in the same decision, the bills that were passed yesterday, and a separate decision was made by the committee. Because whatever you say, you have to put the committee's second decision to the vote now. Otherwise you're illegal. You haven't considered my draft law. I guess I was able to introduce him, but there was no voting for him. Because in that decision that you voted on, there's no draft 3. That's why you didn't make a decision on the third project.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u124	Thank you. Nina Petrovy, I'll just tell you, according to the Rules of Procedure, the adoption of one of the bills automatically means the rejection of everyone else. And that's why the hall decided on your bill, rejecting it according to the procedure provided for in the Rules. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. The hall is clearly here. The next bill, the two bills, are alternative, 7669 and 7669-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the use of State Road Fund funds. And alternative to it. I'm making an offer. One second. Is he in the day-to-day? It's on. I'd like to make a suggestion to consider these bills in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:19:50]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we also agreed -- authors, and then two -- yes, two -- against, and we vote. Will the authors insist on performing? Please, then, I invite Shkurakov Vasil Alexandrovich, the first Deputy Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u125	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, you have before you a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the use of State Road Fund funds (registration number 7669), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. Article 38 of the Law on the State Budget for 2022 of the State Road Fund in 2022 focuses primarily on the implementation of debt obligations for loans received by the State or under State guarantees, as well as on the provision of defence sector requirements. This provision of the law makes it virtually impossible to channel the State Road Fund's funds even when they arrive at the necessary extent to maintain the network of road routes of general use of state importance in good technical condition, as well as to carry out disaster recovery work on damaged roads and artificial buildings. In this connection, it is proposed that article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2022 be deleted from the draft Act, which will allow for the financial provision of the necessary road work. The adoption of the law will help create conditions to ensure the proper functioning of the economy and the road economy. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u126	Thank you. Please invite the author of the alternative bill of the Ukrainian National MP, Dmitry Alexandrovich Razumkov. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u127	Colleagues, in due course, Parliament made the right decision: The money of the road fund was intended to meet the external obligations of the state and the Ukrainian army. I'd like to remind you, the war is not over. Those who do not know may go east or south of our country. I'm surprised when we go on a cruise, what's going on there, Big Construction, with all due respect for Big Construction. And today, definitely shouldn't be in the Donetsk region building new roads, where you have to build for the army, prepare for defense and offensive. So it's suggested that all the money that they're planning to raise into the road fund today should be sent to the needs of the army, to the fact that today, really, our state, our protectors with you, not to start building something that will be destroyed tomorrow by Russian missiles and hand-delivered. Let's not forget that the war is going on, the war is not going to end in two or three weeks, and everyone has to be responsible for their actions, for the button that they press against the Ukrainian army, for the Ukrainian defenders and for the Ukrainian state. Thank you. And I hope you vote wisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor. We completed the bill report. Let's go: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, no, no. And then we vote. Please, I invite national deputy Czernjev Jegor Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u129	Please give the word to Alexander Pasic.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u130	Please, Alexander Pasicky.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u131	Dear Head, the honourable national deputies proposed by Bill 7669, will provide a financial opportunity to maintain the roads of emergency repairs to the damaged roads that Russia has caused and repairs to bridges and Estacades, which are vital to a number of our cities. All of us are well aware of the devastating attacks on bridges, transport arteries in Odessa, Luhansk, Chernigiv, Mikolaiiv and other areas as a result of the fighting. People are forced to travel the crash areas, traveling between 30 and 50 kilometers. I'm not talking about speeding, military, humanitarian cargo. That's understandable to everyone. It is simply not possible to restore this amount of road covering of bridges and estacade physically at present. To this day, then, Ukrawtodor is working to restore critical routes called the roads of life. This bill was almost unanimously supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs. So let's put together today, let's give the travelers the opportunity to work in this difficult time for every Ukrainian. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u132	Please give the floor to National Deputy Vátarovic Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u133	Please hand over Gerasim's Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u134	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you now calmly and very quietly to listen to me. Dear colleagues, please stop any conversation and just listen for one minute. Can I have a word with you?Oh, my God! I'm talking to the People's Deputies, we're talking about an army right now. 85-year-old bagel Mikola Ivanovich sold the apartment and the dachu and gave the money to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I think all of you have seen this news. Instead, today Parliament wants to take money from the army and put it on the road -- no more, no less. And I'll tell you, don't be accused of inventing anything, I'm going to quote this law. "It is proposed that article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2022 be deleted, according to which, in 2022, as an exception to the provisions of article 24-2 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the costs of the State Road Fund are primarily directed towards the protection of the defence sector." Dear colleagues, I'm just now addressing not those who are talking to the light bulb and who are not paying attention to my speech, but those who are volunteering, those who have served in the Armed Forces, those who are helping the Armed Forces today. This law cannot be explicitly adopted, do not push thoughtlessly green buttons, you cannot take money from the army. So, you know, this vote, it's going to be a lakh paper for everyone: and for the new MPs who took the oath today, and for those who say it helps the front today. But this is a very interesting moment: the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the security and defence sector, and the roads. Choose, it's your choice. I propose a red vote. Thank you. And, colleagues, I'll finish. Please support 69-1, there's really an army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u136	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u138	Vladimir Volodymyrovich Cabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, this law to make a difference to the 38th article of the Budget Code, which we adopted six months ago when the war began, that money from the road fund is only for defence purposes. Now we're told that we need to rebuild the construction of roads because a lot of roads are damaged, and that's really true. The important roads involved in defense must be repaired. But what do we do with this law? This change we're allowing not only that, we're allowing the restoration of any road construction. Although explained, the Cabinet of Ministers explains that only roads that are damaged will be restored. But this law does not provide for it, I stress you again, it does not provide for it. Although the explanatory note and the government’s explanation indicate that damaged roads will be restored, this law does not contain any standard that indicates that only damaged roads will be restored. Because I'm offering? That's not how you vote for this law, because every bracelet you spend on the road is an unspent bracelet to defend. This law requires that only damaged roads, and only defensive roads, be repaired. Thus, in the first reading, this law is not to be upheld. And even if it is supported, the second reading needs to be amended to provide that only damaged roads and bridges and only defence - related ones should be repaired. So, colleagues, once again, please don't support the first reading in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll still have Schuffritch. Then the People's Deputy Frost of the "Deliverance of Ukraine," and then we move on to the vote. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. And while I pass the word to the national deputy, Shufritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u141	Thank you, Mr. Head. The question is quite clear, you have to be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u143	Gentlemen, today's formation of article 38 of the Law on State Budget-22 has actually made no sense. Thanks to successful negotiations, the main burden of external borrowing has been lifted in the next two years. In turn, the Supreme Council, through individual budget changes, is rapidly supporting the increased funding of our defence sector. Recently, you and I have increased the corresponding military expenditure by 270 billion dollars. So we have to take down this legal pressure and let it work in our road sector. The Ukrainian Liberation Group supports the government's initiative. At the same time, we demand sufficient control over the development of road costs and the impossibility of any fact of corruption. This is a requirement of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, Shahov is one more minute, and let's move on to making a decision. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall, the people's deputies to take their seats. Sergei Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u145	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, indeed, we can settle the matter for a second reading and resolve the issues with the money that will not go on the roads of Luhansk, Donetsk, Chernigovishka, the substance where fights go, Santa, Hersonian, Zaporozhye. We can settle this by building roads in villages and building them for the displaced and refugees who are now practically homeless on the side of the road. Next, we can settle the issues in the Ukraine budget, put this money also in the army that is fighting today, protects each of us and every Ukrainian, our land. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2022 on the use of State Road Fund funds (project number 7669). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:33:32]] For 241 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading, please. This Bill 7669. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:34:02]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill, 6,504. This is the draft Law on Service in Local Self - Government. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:34:35]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed two, two, against and we vote. I'd like you to sign up for the people's deputies: two for, two for, two for, against, please. The word is given to National Deputy Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u148	Vitaly Bezgin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u149	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! In fact, especially the deputies of the previous call, a similar bill is known because the previous call has already tried to approve, even approved, but unfortunately it has not taken effect. What are we talking about? The point is that local self - government needs to be similarly introduced in public service practices, making it transparent and, in fact, effective. I'll talk briefly. This bill is based in context on the support of all associations of local self-government, the Association of Ukrainian Cities, the All-Ukrainian Association of Communities. The OTG Association, it's supported by SIGMA, it's supported by the Council of Europe and, actually, when we had discussions with factions and groups, and there were representatives of all but one political force, in fact, the format for the basis of the presence was supported by all. So I hope that this position will support the proposal of a committee that is not based on the basis of 116 articles, and in fact, we are together with you, together with the NADH, who has actually done a huge job, together with the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers, we will be able to finally issue this law and make it a valid law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u150	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u151	Mr. Head, I'd like a word with Oleg to the Synth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u152	Please, Oleg Blue.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u153	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we are now considering an extremely important law, a law that applies to local self-government. I want to remind you that decentralization has been recognized as the most successful reform that has taken place in Ukraine during 2014-2019. And today we are touching this very reform. And the question is whether we need to deal with the issue of service in local self - government today if the reform of local self - government is not complete. Because who in this room will answer the question anyway, what further fate, and what authority, for example, on district councils? Secondly, once again, we need to give very clear guarantees of non-interference to the work of local self-government authorities. Thirdly, local self-government authorities should be given guarantees that the financial resources they have today can be used. Moreover, it is fair for them to say that today’s authorities are starting a discussion to collect part of the tax on the income of individuals and to pass it on to other authorities. In these circumstances, then, is it worth considering the issue of service in local authorities? However, we have an example of how this Parliament successfully buried a good and quality Public Service Act and a competitive choice for public service. So, dear friends, this law is actually harmful because it foresees the possibility of involving the central executive authorities, which is not now, in the work of local self-government. And without public discussion, without broadcasting and access by local self - government authorities to the discussion, such an important issue can be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u154	Please, instead of Kirilenko Evtuszek Sergey Mikolaiovich, the "Fatherland" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u155	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. The purpose of the adoption of this bill, which regulates all the working standards of the institution of the peoples of the government, which is called upon to carry out governance in the grasslands, has been established long ago. And I'm going to do a little bit of correcting the previous speakers who said that in the last summons the law had not been passed. On the contrary, a bill had been passed in the past, which had become valid in the walls of Parliament, but was committed by the previous President and sent with amendments to the session room. As far as this bill is concerned, I also want to correct the head of the committee, which stated that the Ukrainian City Association fully supports the initiative. That's absolutely not true. It is absolutely not true, because the Association of Ukrainian Cities clearly states that the provisions of the bill are nullified by the competitive size of wages. And that's why decentralization reform loses all meaning, because we're going to meet after the adoption of this bill with problems in the human resources outflow from the municipalities of those people who are currently working in local self-government. It's a threat to the full human potential. And, dear fellows, if you want to destroy this institution of the peoples of the country, of course, vote in favour of this bill. And if you want to reinforce this chain, I'll remind you, this is the chain that our government is on our shoulders, not the state executive authority that is even now absent from the bed that represents this project, then vote. I urge you not.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u156	Thank you. Sergei Mikolaiovich, the only one. Sergei Mikolaiovich! Sergei Mikolaiovich, if possible, we have representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers. It's just that if you haven't seen it, we have it. We have representatives. Yes, look, please. Let's move on. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. After that, Larissa Bilozer. And then we move on to making decisions. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, then Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u157	Thank you, Mr. Head. As we study the order of the day, I wonder why we have lost so much time to consider this bill, we have certainly more important questions today. Please pass this law as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, Larissa Bilozer. And then we move on to making decisions. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, in fact, this bill is a significant step forward, considering the things that are in the OMC today. As inclusive as this bill was, SIGMA was included here, it's actually the Venice Commission in the sphere of government, and all associations of local self-government. By the way, the AMU supported, there's a positive conclusion. As far as the salaries are concerned, there's a note. I think we're going to raise these salaries that can't be 5,200, at least up to three living minimums. In fact, it is about delimiting the status of officials of local self - government and elected officials, establishing the powers of the service manager, opening competitions, updating the form of a competitive commission, setting the limits of office salaries, when it is not so that managers make a cloudy salary, and officials who actually ensnare in local self - government receive 5,200. This is the question that will be solved in order to preserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We are moving on to making decisions on this bill. Colleagues, prepare for the vote. I propose that the draft Law on Service in Local Self - Administration (registration No. 6504) be adopted as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? Ready? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:55]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 224-yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to propose that we re-send the first reading. Dear colleagues, it's very difficult for the button to work without who's sitting next to it. Dear colleagues, I would like to suggest that we re-send the first draft of the Law on Service in Local Self-Government, the registration number of Bill 6504. We vote for re-reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:48]] For 231 Decision taken. It went back to the first. Let's move on, dear fellows. Let's move on to the next question. Bill 7552. This is a draft of the Act amending Chapter VI of the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation. I'm proposing that this bill be included in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:29]] For 248 Decision taken. I'm offering to consider this issue in a simplified way. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:50]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favor, two in favour. Right, colleagues? Sergey Costinovich, thank you very much, you've been standing in the center. Thank you. We agreed two, two, against only. Therefore, I ask you to register: two in favour, two in opposition to this bill being discussed. Factions and groups please log in. I give the floor to Alexander Volodymyrovich Kowalczuk, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u161	Please pass the word to Paul Paulish.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u162	Please give Paul Vasilovich Pavlish a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, what's the bill about? The bill relates to the fact that for the seventh month of the war in Ukraine, we still allow the employees of the State Bureau of Investigation, the law enforcement agency, to actually protect the rule of law in the country. How can they carry out their duties if they are unable to use firearms now? Therefore, I ask all MPs to support the bill and allow the State Bureau of Investigation to use firearms to protect both their lives and health, and their lives and health in carrying out their duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u164	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, at the beginning of a full-scale invasion, not all of them, but most of the D.B.I. representatives formed a battalion of Zakarpathian Shelters and hid for two months while Kiev was guarding a noble 72nd. A battalion, a more faithful brigade, and battalions of territorial defense, and also, of course, General Krivonos. Today, from the hideout, they crawled out of this and started their favorite thing -- to nightmare anyone who has the honour of telling the truth about what's going on in the country, including with the preparation of the country for war. And it's a total disgrace when the D.B.I. today instead of investigating cases of collaborators and traitors, including those present in this sessional room, do so. Well, now those Collaborators and traitors are the main voters of the government and the Servants of the People, so now they're out of the question, so we've got the D.B.I. In fact, our political team remembers very well what the D.B.I. has been doing for all three years: arresting paintings, nightmares of opposition, fighting battle generals, arresting vests that were needed in the same way in the 22nd year when they were arrested in the 19th. And so the only thing that needs to be done right for the D.B.I. is actually to dissolve it. So our political power this week is registering an appropriate bill, please join us. And notice that there's a camera in the room now, we're fixing everything that's going on in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because voters need to know how you betrayed 241 deputies today, the Ukrainian army, and have voted for it. So that the money that taxpayers pay so hard today will be passed on to their envelopes. Thieves, you're unconscious, what you do during the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u166	The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, a faction of the political party. Oh, please, Skinny Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Of course, making changes to the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian DBR Act is the right thing to do. Our faction will support that. The only question is, why so long. Let’s say that anyone who wanted or didn’t want to do it in March even in the streets of Kiev was armed to protect the country. And the State Bureau of Investigations, we had time to burn some cases, and, well, getting weapons and giving ourselves that opportunity and adopting that law, they couldn't do it at the right time. This time. And the second. Taking advantage of the possibility, I want to say the following, and while in the lava of territorial defense personally, I want to say the following. Today, there is a very serious negative trend. At present, there is an increase in law enforcement, including the DBR, in the criminal and legal assessment of the actions of commanders and other military officials, as well as the volunteers of the territorial defence forces they carried out during the initial period of full-scale Russian military aggression against Ukraine. Many of them are incriminating the excess of power, the deliberate destruction or damage of property, the unlawful possession of property, the illegal treatment of weapons and ammunition. The point of the problem is that such a legal assessment is carried out on milestones of peacetime, on purely formal criteria, without proper consideration of the situation in which military and other officials were then required to act, simply volunteers. It is ignored that the end of February - March of this year was a period of particular danger to the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people when the defense of Ukraine demanded that the enemy be resisted with all available means. And we need to pay attention to that to our esteemed law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the Platform for Life and Peace group. But I think it'll be Grigory's mom. Right? Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I would have paid attention, not to politics, but to the content of the bill and the amendment of 7552. For the time being, this bill allows D.B.I. employees to have the right to have weapons. Based on it, including the Ukrainian Police Act. When the NABU was created, the NABU was empowered by the Police Act to use weapons, there was no separate law, and the DBR forgot to give. In this room, the D.B.I. and they took the lead on the basis of the law, the know-how. Did it help? It didn't help. The work of the State Bureau of Investigation is one story. And the second story is the availability and authorization of weapons. A law enforcement agency cannot be without firearms. Whatever we want, he's a security guard. He is obliged to carry out those duties only with weapons. The bill, which states and gives the right to use the Police Act, states, in addition to the rights and responsibilities of responsibility, to which all of this is regulated by law. Please support the bill and allow the law enforcement authority to still have firearms and exercise their powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. I propose to adopt the draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the State Bureau of Investigation (Registration No. 7552). Ready to vote? Ready? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:54:55]] For 247 Decision taken. I'm making an offer. Let's see the factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline, the amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:55:21]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart. I have just received a letter from the President of Ukraine that received two ratifications. All the leaders of factions and groups have signed that they are willing to consider it without discussing it right now. This is a question related to registration number 0165, 0166. All the factions and groups have been signed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an offer to go over these issues right now and consider them without discussion. Dear colleagues, I ask 0165, 0166 to be included in the agenda and also to be considered right now. Please, I'm asking you to vote. [[14:56:23]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's vote now. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Facilitation of Trade in Goods (registration No. 0165). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:56:58]] For 279 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Joint Transit Procedure (Registration No. 0166). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:57:29]] For 275 Decision taken. Both laws were passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill 75. Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know in the Internet media "Ukrainian Truth," maybe somewhere else, I don't know, but it's already been reported that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has voted on the media bill in the first reading. There's a full ballot. I want to go back to the fact that our meeting with you is the secret of Polischenel. We see that in the media, the information that the hall is working is voting and that the decisions are being made are coming out before the session of Parliament ends. In this context, we ask you once again, colleagues, that this should come from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to put to the vote a decree on the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Your voters, like ours, are all Ukrainians and military first, they want to know that Parliament is working, which decisions we make. Today, good decisions have been voted, shameful decisions, positions have been expressed, and voters have a right to know. I can't understand why, for the 31st year of independence, Ukraine has for the first time been blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I say again, I begin every session with a request not to spread information. Because those who spread information are like correctional agents. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the only legislative body, and we must take care of the safety of everyone who is here. Because it is not even possible to re-elect during the war. So, high-ranking colleagues, let's be responsible for yourself in the first place. This proposal, it's already been considered. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, 7532, draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of notarial and registration actions in the acquisition of land rights. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:59:53]] For 222 The decision is not taken. We didn't put it in the agenda, so we can't look at it. Let's move on. The next bill, this is re-reading, is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the fight against terrorism (registration number 7349). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:00:33]] For 214 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed two in favor, two in favour, against and we move on to the vote. But I will ask that the national deputies meet in the hall. Please register: two, two, against this bill. Please give the word to Osadchuku Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Bobrovsky Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u174	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, we're not going to support this bill in view of having a number of other proposals that were registered two years ago, and we would have asked the authors of this bill to review Bill 5872/(cb)1, where it is clearly prescribed that organizations are included in the list of terrorist acts, as it is recognized by the courts, through the courts are excluded from the list. It was very strange for me to see that a list of organizations that were recognized as terrorist is being introduced by the B.B.U.A., agreed by the prosecution, but approved by the Security and Defence Committee, a professional committee in Parliament. We can discuss for a very long time how important the legislative body is, of course it is, but the expertise and whether this is the task of the Supreme Council is a huge issue. To be sure, more than in our functions, this is not prescribed, so far we cannot bring the order to those people and organizations that we have to go to the LRA and ask them to put them on the sanctions list, but for some reason, this list still hangs in the dark, and we don't see it in the session room. Moreover, he loses his logic when the Security Service is entered into the register, is expelled from the list solely by judicial means, and the charges are brought through the court. Explain, please: One way, one way, one way, one way, the other, the other, and so on. There are other things that are surprising about the subject of the fight against terrorism, namely: The N.G. and the Armed Forces. Is there no point in working on these things, such as those involved in the fight against terrorism and, of course, the handover to the antiterrorist center of all, all passengers by all transport carriers to Ukraine? Question: Why can’t others, such as the State Border Service, do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u176	Please, Black Yegor Volodymyrovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u177	Please pass on the word to Marianne Besogly.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u178	Please, Mariana Bezugla.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u179	Colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, because now we all understand the importance of the fight against terrorism. An anti-terrorism battle is one of the priorities of the Security Service. But not only on the Security Service, but on a joint fight against terrorists in general, that is, deepening inter-agency coordination and fighting, ensuring the effective functioning of international organizations, creating a register of terrorist organizations, which is very important, increasing the level and potential for compensation to individuals caused by terrorist acts, attracting the responsibility of a terrorist organization and group. So, colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u180	Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u181	Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u182	Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, what are we discussing if, in a warring country, the Ukrainian Security Service does not have its leader? And the President of Ukraine has not yet submitted a candidacy for the head of this key office. What do we discuss if the previous Head of the Security Service of Ukraine was filmed for the first time in Ukraine’s history of negligence that led to the death of people? And we demand that they listen. So what were we talking about? What has this Ukrainian Security Service done that has led to the destruction of humans? We also demand to meet the executive responsibility of the Ukrainian Security Service within the Conciliation Council or any council to hear about some mythical botofs that seem to be there, they were covering instead of fighting collaborators and traitors. As far as this bill is concerned. We're actually strengthening the authoritarian tendencies of the state today by forcing the Security and Defence Council to form, you know, some terrorist packages there. So we have half of the terrorists and traitors today are rewarded with state awards, and we have a merit medal in President Zelensky's latest decree as a medal for service, because they included people who, after 14 years in Moscow, sang with their mouths at victory concerts, or those who were running around Lugansk in the "Green Men Are the Magnificent People" T-shirt. Please know what is happening now in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when you refuse to broadcast meetings, it means that dishonest actions are taking place here, because if there's nothing to hide, you don't have to hide. And this bill needs to be buried here in the bud.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u184	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group. Then we move on to making a decision. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u185	Thank you. The law is clear. We need to be determined as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, take it now so you don't run, and then we don't have two votes. Please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm making an offer. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the fight against terrorism (registration number 7349). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:08:13]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a second proposal to re-read it, so I'd like to ask the national MPs to vote. [[15:08:45.]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected, fellow believers. Dear colleagues, can I ask the factions leaders for a moment? For one minute, faction leaders and groups, please come here. Please don't break up, dear fellows. For one second I only asked the leaders of factions and groups. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have not been able to consider all matters of the day. But, dear fellows, I have a great request.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u187	Let's try to vote an immediate signature: there's ratification, there's a budget, so it doesn't go too long.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, look, there is such an offer, and Alexander Sergiyovich will give it a sound. Today we have adopted several laws that are very important, quickly signed. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's no need here. I can stop this meeting at any time in accordance with the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Alexander Sergiyovich, make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u189	I would like to place a motion on the vote to the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the bills adopted today as a whole by the Supreme Council and to send them to the President of Ukraine for signature. Please vote. [[15:11:41]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2022-08-30-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you for your effective work. We're not closing our plenary session. The time and place of our next meeting will be announced in advance. We believe in the Armed Forces. We're working side-by-side to win. Glory to Ukraine!
