ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Violeta Tomić from 16:00 on, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec from 3 p.m. on, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 2.30 p.m. on, Mr. Franz Laj and Mr. Joseph Horvat. I say hello to everyone who's here! Your Honor! Yesterday, July 14th, we were shocked by the new news of the terrorist attack, this time in Nice, France, when more than 80 people lost their lives under an unimaginable act. This vile, perverted and unforgivable act is condemned most severely. At this tragic event, we sincerely feel for the French nation and all those who mourn the relentless and irreplaceable loss of their loved ones. We also sympathize with all those who lost their loved ones in recent acts of terror and cowardice in Istanbul, Dhaka and Baghdad. Our thoughts stand in the defence of human dignity and freedom and of humanity itself. Dearly beloved, let us bow down to all the victims of yesterday’s event and to the aforementioned acts that have shaken mankind’s conscience again, with a minute of silence. / minute silence/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on higher education. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u3	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! You have before you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act – ZVIS-K, which is the result of intensive work and dialogue in the last year with all key stakeholders in higher education and the general public. Today we are implementing the predicted first step towards amending the sectoral legislation. The proposed novel introduces the most important changes that are needed due to greater responsiveness, development of quality, democracy, international openness and better integration of higher education with the environment and the economy. If Slovenia wants to become a knowledge society, which is one of the key priorities of this government and ministry in this mandate, then we also need to change the regulatory framework. Today is the first step towards amendments and a proposal for a text which is meant to do just that. We see the proposal of the ZVIS as an important step in the implementation of the commitments made in the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, that knowledge is a public good and higher education, our shared public responsibility. An in-depth analysis of the National Higher Education Programme, which we carried out this year and last year, shows that some of the objectives and measures are not being achieved with the expected dynamics, mainly due to unchanged legislation and in particular the fall in budgetary resources for higher education. This year’s funding for higher education increased by 5.6% for the first time – and also last year – after 2011. The proposal for a new ZVIS, which is under discussion today and which you are looking at in more detail, also shows the necessary developments in the legislative field. And that is why, of course, a well-founded vision that, despite the backlogs we have created in this area, we can still maintain a developmental step with the best in the world. What brings the novels? Establish a predictable and stable system of financing for higher education, adaptability of the system or increase the flexibility of study programmes by providing and developing quality in a more limited form, with regard to implementation at the level of universities or higher education institutions, openness of higher education institutions to the international environment, the establishment of an inclusive system of management of higher education institutions, the monitoring of the employability of graduates, the reduction of school leaving, rapid or faster integration into the labour market, and the reduction of study time. However, the common point of all these objectives is to promote and establish the quality of higher education institutions, based on educational and research excellence, cooperation with the external environment, involvement in international flows and, of course, greater autonomy, but also the responsibilities of higher education institutions. The system of budgetary funding for higher education is one of the key areas that we first regulate in this novel in a predictable, transparent and, above all, in a development-oriented way. It is designed to promote excellence in all areas, while at the same time allowing the diversification of institutions, which will primarily develop their competitive and competitive advantages. Emphasis is placed on the criteria and fulfilment of the criteria and objectives of quality, efficiency and development, which will set a variable part of the level of funding of higher education institutions and thus encourage greater accountability and prudence in the use of budgetary resources. On the one hand, we are strengthening the autonomy of higher education institutions and allowing for a more consistent implementation of national institutional objectives, while at the same time strengthening accountability, as has already been said. In view of the current situation, we also add an important segment, where we also regulate for the first time the regular budget co-financing of the third study stage, which we have not regulated so far. The funding system presented will also allow for transparent quantitative monitoring of the efficiency of budget spending. As you know, we are also reminded of this by the Court of Auditors. At the same time, we also introduce the autonomy of universities, thereby giving the Agency a greater opportunity to better promote the advisory and developmental strengthening of the quality of institutions through changes and additions to the evaluation and accreditation chapter. Quality must be assured, exposed and visible, so we also open universities and higher education spaces to international cooperation, with the possibility of teaching in foreign languages. I stress that it is a Slovenian language and remains a key language of higher education. We add and only define exceptions under which it is possible to carry out study programmes in foreign languages, but subject to appropriate conditions. This is also the first time we have regulated the use of foreign languages in higher education programmes. Let me round. The proposed novel was prepared both at the working group with extensive dialogue with all the participants in higher education, confirmed at the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, and at the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Student Issues. At the same time, I can argue that with the proposal of the novel, we are laying clearer foundations for the further development of the excellence of Slovenian higher education and science, research. Our commitment is to establish quality, open, inclusive education at this level of education as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u4	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! We certainly understand the need to amend the Higher Education Act, both in terms of the legal irregularity of the financing of higher education, as well as the desire to improve the quality of higher education programme providers and their more effective interaction, and in addition to other important aspects of the regulation of the international openness of universities or higher education institutions. As regards funding, which has so far been regulated solely by the Regulation, it is appropriate to draw attention to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which points out that financing must be regulated in such a way that state universities and universities can provide for the extent of the financial resources they can obtain for their programmes. This opinion should be followed, which is what the proposer in the amendment of the law is trying to regulate accordingly. We also agree with the solutions relating to simplifications and, at the same time, from a culture of quality of higher education to a more appropriate arrangement, which also transforms and in terms of efficiency, upgrades and simultaneously burdens the activities of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education. In doing so, the bill duly establishes the principle of autonomy and responsibility of higher education institutions, in particular when deciding on and amending study programmes. More complex and sensitive is the regulation of greater international openness of higher education institutions. It must certainly be of common interest that Slovenia is not lagging behind comparable countries in Europe or the European Union in the area of participation in international higher education programmes and processes. In doing so or in parallel, we should also ensure the comprehensive development of Slovenian language and terminology in higher education and science, which, given the pace of the development of globalisation processes, will not be possible. Some information is expected to present problems today, and this issue should not be left to the sole responsibility of universities or other higher education institutions, irrespective of whether it is defined as a special responsibility of higher education institutions. Although there are certain grounds for regulating this content in the draft law, we believe that further attention will have to be paid to this in the future stage of the adoption of the law. We are reminded of this by important state institutions and various groups of intellectuals and the general public, which we should not ignore or ignore. In smaller countries such as Slovenia, this aspect must be highlighted and under scrutiny, so we warn the competent ministry and the competent mother labour body that, even at the last stage of the adoption of the law, they remain open or open until the search is as coordinated as possible, especially in view of the comprehensive development of the Slovenian language and the culture of optimal solutions. If there is any major error, it will be difficult to correct the exam if I symbolically express myself. Finally, I must also draw attention to the important issue or request of the Hungarian National Community for higher education programmes. Since there is no university or adequate higher education institution in the national mixed area where the said community lives, in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the integrity of the systematic resolution of the education of the national community, the Departments of Hungarian Language and Literature operating within the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Maribor must ensure a permanent and stable developmental status within the framework of the proposed amendment of the law. In recent years, there have been problems in this area, either because of internal differences within the university or for other reasons, and therefore this higher education programme needs to be properly organised in the context of the amendment of this law, i.e. the Higher Education Act. The same applies to adequate programmes of Italian nationality. In the hope of an appropriate upgrade to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act in further procedures, as well as in the light of subsequent comprehensive changes in this area, as the Minister has also announced, we will support the proposal at this stage in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u6	The text is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for which Mr Saša Tabakovic is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u7	Dear President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the SMC Group, we consider higher education policy to be a fundamental policy for human beings. The Higher Education Act was passed in 1993 and has since undergone quite a few changes and additions. The undeniable fact is that, to date, the situation in higher education has changed, that is to say, the secondarys, and that they also need an appropriate regulatory framework for effective and effective action. The novelty that is before us today, in many parts of this changed conditions of action, is being addressed and placed in a real and real state that our higher education space does not follow as it should. Let me first point out some facts that are related to this. The budgets adopted for 2016 and 2017 are again increasing funding for higher education after a multi-annual reduction. In 2016, a total of 5,6 % of the more integrated resources are foreseen in this area, and the trend is therefore upwards. In this context, priority actions focus, inter alia, on funding development schemes for doctoral and post-doctrinal studies. After years of silence, we are able to re-budget a third-level study in public higher education institutions. The proposal of the novel brings welcome changes to the student community as it allows them to maintain their student status until the end of the academic year in which they graduate, full membership in academic assemblies and a better healthcare system. Changes in the further development of higher education facilities by monitoring the employability of students and graduates and establishing an inclusive system for the management of higher education institutions, which means responding to the multi-annual expectations of the university community after a more fair representation of all stakeholders operating within this space. The novel also foresees important moves to raise quality culture in higher education institutions, notably by empowering the National Agency for Quality in Higher Education and moving from programming to institutional accreditation according to quality criteria and standards. Respected and respected, universities have been operating since independence without their funding being regulated by law. Since 2011, the Constitutional Court has been drawing attention to this. With this novelty, we finally establish a predictable and stable system of funding for higher education, a transparent model of budgeting for the study activity between individual higher education institutions is introduced, in line with indicators that enable the stability, competitiveness and development of the study activity. The target value of the budget allocated for the study activity is also set. We understand that all stakeholders with a transitional provision where a sustainable model is established to achieve this objective are not satisfied, but we stress that this is necessary and important in order to maintain public financial sustainability and to comply with the fiscal rule adopted by a sufficient majority in this National Assembly. To be taken seriously by the proposal, it is appropriately involved with a safeguard – maintaining the nominal growth of funds last year, thus ensuring adequate stability and planning of activities. On behalf of the SMC Group, I would like to highlight the following. It is true that we do not solve the public service issue in its entirety, as some would like, but we stress that it is important that this part is complementaryly coordinated with research and development activities. The blood law in this area is already being prepared, the starting points are being coordinated. Nevertheless, the novelty indirectly addresses these issues through a stable and predictable funding model, as it accurately sets out the conditions and criteria to be achieved by higher education institutions in order to be eligible for budgetary funding. Let me add that, until the distinction between public and private implementation of higher education activities, we do not give up in any way, as this remains our and also our coalition commitment. And now for a few words about the learning language. First time. Existing national higher education documents highlight the need for greater international openness of higher education, while stressing the co-existence of maintaining and further developing Slovenian on the one hand and strengthening the international dimension of action on the other. The measures to this end have already been outlined in previous governments and in State-level parliamentary mandates. As a result, we should know where we are and what we want, since we already have guidelines and targets. If I quote the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme for the period 2011-2020, which states: "The attractiveness of our higher education space is currently at an extremely low level compared to other countries, therefore a number of immediate measures should be taken to increase the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education." One of the measures envisaged by the resolution is the provision of teaching in foreign languages, and it is stated that, in order to achieve the highest quality of internationalisation and international attractiveness of the higher education institution, the study process can also be carried out in foreign languages, while at the same time complementary measures for the preservation and development of the Slovenian language are equally or perhaps even more important. We do not renounce this in the SMC Group, as further development of the Slovenian language and terminology in higher education and science is needed. In this regard, let me just add that the existing law provides for a more detailed way of looking after the development and learning of the Slovenian language, and this provision remains a dead letter on paper. Indeed, the creation and adoption of a submarital act has never really taken place to this day. We agree and we do not at all deny that a Slovenian student has the right to listen to lectures in Slovenian language at the University of State. We respect the Slovenian language and therefore point out that the first paragraph of Article 8 of the amendment clearly states that the learning language is Slovenian and remains so. We stress that the novel sets out more clearly the conditions or exceptions for the permissible implementation of study programmes in foreign languages as well. In the parliamentary group, we want to clear up some notions in further consideration of the bill that there will be no possible manipulations that the interested public is aware of and alerted to. However, we reject the exaggeration of the issue of the nation, the complete expulsion of the Slovenian language and so on. On this, respectable and respected, we would not agree, nor is this the purpose of the novel that is before us today. We are aware that today's debate will focus on changes affecting the use of the learning language, which is also right and understandable. However, we do not want this to blur the other areas and solutions that have been foreseen after years of silence in the novel and are also of paramount importance for raising the quality of higher education. In today's debate, we expect to be led by a particularly rational discourse, and in the SMC Group we will listen carefully to the debate because we are aware of the importance of the best-coordinated higher education policy in our country. However, we estimate that the proposal for a law is certainly appropriate for further consideration, so we will also support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u8	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you, President, for your word. Minister with co-workers, nice greeting! Colleagues and colleagues, as well as you! At the presentation of this law, the Ministry wrote, quote: "In addition to establishing a predictable and stable system of funding for higher education, the novel brings the openness of systems into the international environment, increases the flexibility of study programmes and ensures greater autonomy of higher education institutions." So: financing, system openness, flexibility, greater autonomy. So in theory. In addition, laws, sub-laws, university statutes and, above all, the practice in the field of higher education are laws, regulations, statutes of universities. The fact is, there are many open issues and problems in the area of higher education. I will not list them, some are of a purely academic nature, and some also touch on the areas ahead of us in the National Assembly, which is that the legislative branch of power, on the proposal of the executive branch of power, determines what kind of higher education system we want in Slovenia. The first fact is that we finally have to get a system law. The word "systemic" in this term is, in addition to the word "partners", one of the pillars of this government, at least at times when it says that the opposition proposals for laws are not good. We have a law before us that deals to a certain extent with individual issues, and the question is whether they are sufficiently, especially, or systematically. And respectable and respected, just what you have been doing for the past two years mainly to the opposition parliamentary groups, that the laws are not systematic, is before us today. Moreover, in Slovenia we have a legal order, a constitution, laws, a sub-law. We have a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2011, which speaks of the financing of higher education. But look, a good month or two ago, this ministry adopted a regulation on public funding for higher education institutions and other institutions. In short, we are now adopting the law and the study year, and I hope you are all aware, it begins on October 1st. And indeed, once again, we ask the competent ministry, which were the key arguments, why before the amendment of the law was rushed by the amendment of the regulation. The Constitutional Court said, "We must regulate the law," and the competent ministry first amended the regulation, and today we have a law. And in the regulation and today, things are happening that have nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's decision, and in the SDS Group we are confident that we can wait a year. Or, on the other hand, what we have been saying for the past two years is that the competent ministry could speed up and adopt a system law in the field of higher education. But I guess if we ask the secretary and the team today, what kind of high school law do we even want? Do we want a stand-alone system law or will we get a law on higher education and research activities, or will we do research after that, somewhere after 2018 or at the rate of government officials after 2020? That everything is in some slow motion system also speaks the issue of funding. While the Ministry has written down in its 43rd Article that funding for higher education will be raised to 1% of GDP, but for the next 15 years. One of us can claim that he will be alive at all, that he will be here at all, and that someone will look at the Higher Education Act, where it will be written, yes, and in 2031 we have 1% of GDP for higher education. If we already know that we do not have a Minister of Finance, this story of financing higher education is even more questionable, as it is also likely that in the area of higher education, stakeholders are asking what kind of minister we will get. Whether we will get a minister who will open a scrotum and say, "let's go also in the field of higher education", or he will squeeze even more in the direction of the previous minister also in the area of higher education. In short, we adopt this law at a time when it also has financial implications; it is not a problem that we do not have a minister of finance. The key problem is what this minister will be like – whether he opens a scrotum or closes it even more. Once again, the Constitutional Court's decision refers to stable and predictable financing. However, if, in the opinion of the SDS Group, we read the law in detail, we have two options here. One thing that follows the law is the chieftain. But in our opinion, chieftain is not what it says "stable system". Above all, this system will reduce the quality of the field of higher education, as teachers will make good grades as much as possible, because more than students will be in colleges and at university, there will be more money. A while ago, we had an urgent meeting of the Education Committee to complete the so-called Bologna Science Masters and Doctorates. When we asked ourselves – the quality of student works, master's and doctor's tasks, or staggering and kneading over because we dropped over and in our opinion this funding system is wrong. [[...]] And while we are on the subject of funding, we can be circumcised at the next point, which is Article 1 of the law – Slovenian or foreign language. There are about a million and a half Slovenians here or something like that, or a little less abroad, that we still speak Slovenian, at least on a daily basis. So one suburb of one big city. And in our view, Slovenian language is not on the market, as our national symbols are not on the market. And the existing law says that part of the educational process can also be introduced in a foreign language. There may be a word, but it shall be specified in more detail by statute. And I really don't know if they are holding back the adversarials of all those who oppose this amendment of Article 1 to the economic strength of individual colleges who want to gain what they have lost with the supplements for permanent readiness on this account of this article. It is true that certain professors are referred to as certain colleges, which are most committed to writing this law in Article 1 as envisaged. Let us be practical – who comes to Slovenian universities and where do Slovenian students go? Who will come to Slovenia to study? The Scandinavians? The Germans? French? No, no, no. We, our students, go to these promised countries. For whom, though, is our country promised? Let's look at a little migration flow, and let's just look at the migration flows within the European Union in the area of higher education. And with all due respect to certain southern and eastern countries – whether these are the people we want to win in our quality high school model, or whether we will be a stepping stone to them because we are still cheap compared to colleges and universities in the western and northern parts of Europe. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture have also given certain opinions in their work so far; otherwise, they have been taken into account and are likely to be set. Above all, I am concerned that the legislative and legal service of the Government has been engaged in a number of other matters in recent weeks and months, but not with what they have been paid for – to clear up the nominal and substantive proposals of the laws. And I myself will be interested – given that the coalition is likely to support this bill 100% in the first phase, to read with interest the opinion of the legislative and legal service, or, above all, those segments that speak about the financing of higher education have the basis both in the constitution and in other articles. In short, given that the law follows to a certain extent the direction of the Constitutional Court's decision, we have mixed doubts in the SDS Group about whether to confirm the Act at first reading or give it a red light, which is also pointed out by certain higher education stakeholders who speak about the field of Slovenian or foreign language. Above all, we hope that, when we propose to the SDS Group on the National Working Committee itself, a public presentation of the opinions on this law will be made so that you do not put your head between your shoulders and press the anti-keys. If you say that they are aligned with all stakeholders, probably those hours, two or three will not be any fun so that Slovenian public, Slovenian students, Slovenian professors will not be told that the law is good. And the law has some good extensions in the theoretical part of this law: the establishment of a higher education institution, the problem of accreditation of study programmes, which is a problem, the issue of the academic assembly, joint study programmes, accreditations and evaluation. But given that I have been monitoring the field of higher education for ten years, both on the job and on the private side, there are a lot of problems. And I'm going back to the funding problem. Even if we reach one percent of GDP for study activities, I am disgusted when in recent months, as well as a year or more, I listen to stories where money within the field of higher education is draining away. What nonsense is money spent solely on being up to 31. On the 12th year, higher education institutions justify funds, inflate balloons because they fear that they will get fewer next year because they have been rational, like many other stakeholders in other areas. In short, there are still some open questions. In view of the fact that this coalition and this government are striving towards systemicism, we hope that the distinguished minister will indeed make a final decision, even though some day will be allowed less, and decide whether the system law is only for the area of higher education or the system law for higher education and research activities. And above all, that officials will not look at the luft until 1 September, but prepare what is absolutely necessary, and this is a really good system law on higher education, which will answer a number of open questions that are even more necessary for ventilation, and in particular the changes that are ahead of us as this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u10	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, a member of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Today is the last day of the regular meeting of the National Assembly before the holidays and shows that the temperature can also be appropriate for the current agenda item, at least at the point where the proposal speaks of the Slovenian language. Let me begin by saying that, in the Desus Group, we will support the proposed amendment and supplementation of the Higher Education Act by a majority, but that we have certain concerns that I will present below. Unfortunately, I must also point out, Madam Minister, that the text of the government, which is our law, has been coalitionly inconsistent, and that is why we have also set out our concerns, which I expect, as we have agreed, to be resolved by the end of the procedure for the adoption of the law. In the Desus Group, we would like to see such ignorance no longer in the future, as we are coalition partners and co-operation protocols in the coalition must be respected. Madam Minister, I did not want to be too harsh, but I believe that this should be noted. Please also note that such practice would no longer take place in the future. Let us go to the content, or more precisely, at which points in the Desus Group we see possible pitfalls, to which questions we still have to answer before we fully support the law, what remains to be resolved or otherwise defined. The most critical point for us, therefore, for the Desus Group is Article 1 of the novel, which amends the current Article 8 of the Basic Law, is the learning language. Through the prism of the Constitution and the most important law that could be called the Ombudsman of Slovenia, that is our language – this is the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian – the Slovenian language is the fundamental human right of every Slovenian and Slovenian to manifest itself in all areas of social life, both public and private. You can't challenge that, Your Honor. All sectoral laws, from kindergarten to including secondary education, ensure the provision of knowledge in the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian language and at the same time ensure the protection of both national minorities in our territorial territory. However, higher education is already different. In addition to the Slovenian language, it is possible to implement study programmes in foreign languages. We absolutely agree in the Desus Group that at the university level it is necessary to build on knowledge also by means of literature and lectures in a foreign language. But everything is not as simple or unique as it is in the spirit of internationalisation, spreading the possibility of using foreign languages, conceived by this novel of the Law on Higher Education. Many issues and concerns, such as this, or the desire for greater international openness may not mean greater liberalisation and commercialisation of higher education activities, but in this part of the public service, public activity financed by the contributions of all taxpayers must, in the first place, serve to offer quality education programmes to our children, grandchildren and next generation. Here, let us highlight two further key issues. The first question is whether what is supposed to be carried out in public is sufficient for these requirements, if not clearly demarcated or defined, what is the public service in higher education, what is its scope, what are the basic conditions for individuals to access higher education services in this public service, what are the basic conditions for public service providers if there is no specific way to carry out public service and how to finance it? Well, we are in the Constitutional Court's decision to remedy these shortcomings, which has also been found to be constitutional non-compliance, and this amendment does not remove this. The Minister promises that the latter will be done under the next new and comprehensive law currently being drawn up. Okay, we trust her and we believe that she will finally lay clear foundations for the public service, at the same time, on scientific research activities. The second question concerns the quality of education programmes. In order to do so, it is not sufficient for the NAKVIS – National Quality Agency in Higher Education – to confirm the relevance of a programme, whether it is implemented in Slovenian or, for example, in English. It is crucial, according to our assessment, that the lecturer can provide the basic explanation in a sovereign and professional manner and that the listener fully absorbs it. But is such a goal achieved if not one in English is not as well subdued as natural speakers? Therefore, in the Desus Group, we are concerned that the potential flood of calls for comparable and appropriate study programmes will make our students' knowledge poor. In order not to do so, and also to prevent our students from being deprived of listening and studying in native language, we cannot, with some loose and undefined standard of so-called comparable and appropriate study programmes, allow the Slovenian language at Slovenian universities to be suppressed in time by English. We believe that this was not the aim of the ministry, so we are convinced that the amendment of the law together can be properly corrected and better defined. And there's something else about taking care of Slovenian language. We are not afraid that because of more English, German, Italian, or any other language at universities, our mother tongue would be endangered. So much for our ancestors' awareness of how hard the struggle has been for us to speak it even as an official language of Europe today, but our society is already overcoming the fact that we will not allow our language to be no longer alive. But we can't close. We are a small nation, so it is clear that we need to speak more languages. As has already been said, at this time we are giving Members and Members of Desus to the proposal for the amendment of the Green Light Act, and confirmation of the bill on our part requires the expected modification of the provisions concerning the teaching language in university education, which we believe should be a priority for Slovenia and foreign language only as a complement and upgrade in the programme offer of quality studies. We will support the bill in the majority because we trust the Minister that in the second reading, at the points still open, we will complete the content of the law so that it is acceptable for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u12	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the context of the consideration of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, I would like to point out in the introduction that only the knowledge and development of the Slovenian language in the field of science is one that can preserve us in the future as a sovereign nation and as a nation that will be able to formulate answers to the many questions posed by globalisation. It is the very interest of corporations that have only one objective to reduce the impact of individual countries that is best achieved by violating the way education is financed and also affecting the elimination of language development in each country. If we look at the area of higher education in Slovenia, we can find that our higher education institutions also shake the uncertainty of public financial support every year, which prevents long-term work planning. The resolution of the situation by amending the Regulation on the financing of higher education institutions every year also violates the autonomy of action and leaves them to the will of government policy on a regular basis and to the interest in the introduction of tuition, which, of course, also reduce access to education. The proposal that is on our table today also has two key shortcomings, according to the Social Democrats, and we believe that solutions are being sought to finance higher education institutions in the wrong direction. The first flaw is the lack of definition of what public service is in the field of higher education. The lack of definition allows for a different understanding of where the boundary between public and market interest in higher education institutions is. And the effects of pursuing such a blurry border have recently also been monitored in the field of affairs with authors' fees. And the distance from the concept of knowledge as a public good can also be seen in other key shortcomings, which is the rise of the Slovenian language from the classrooms. In view of the above, in the second reading, we will prepare and table amendments to the definition of public service and to the Slovenian language, the use of Slovenian language in higher education institutions. According to our assessment, it is unacceptable that the question of the exercise of public interest remains subject to the rule of law, since again it is not determined what is within the framework of public interest and to what extent it is financed by public funds. It is also unacceptable to overlook warnings from the professional public about the language and public interest in it. The Constitutional Court also detailed in its decision 2011 the requirements for amending the Higher Education Act. The definition of the public service, the conditions of accessibility to higher education, the conditions for operators and the precise definition of public funding were imposed. In a broad public debate on the new higher education law in 2013 and 2014, this was Dr Pikala's proposal, it was to a large extent a harmonised law with all stakeholders, which is a very good basis for us to continue the planned work because it was a very high level of coordination with all stakeholders. This novel, which is before us today, does not show this consistency. In fact, delaying the definition of public interest in higher education or public service in higher education for an indefinite period of time is certainly not the right solution. True, there are some good solutions to this marriage. The law brings news in this proposal, which we also support and welcome; of course, there is a greater involvement of non-educated workers in the appointment of rectors and dean as they acquire electoral rights, as well as of other workers in the work of the academic assembly. We also support provisions regulating the status and rights of students. Among them we highlight a novelty that will allow the student who finishes first-degree studies to expire at the end of the academic year and not more from the date he graduates, which is expected to contribute to the easier transition to a second-degree or to employment. It is also important to supplement, by which it is unequivocally determined that it is not possible to prescribe tuition even for a second stage where the programme is publicly valid and financed from the State budget. With regard to the transition from the programme to institutional accreditation, due to the initial circumstances presented, we have a somewhat mixed feeling, and we hope that the maintenance of the first accreditation and the concept of exceptional and sample evaluations will allow for a sufficiently efficient and efficient quality of higher education. And let me finish. So in this first reading, the law is inconsistent with the Social Democrats' Group of Members and in the second reading, as I announced, we will prepare amendments to define what public service is in higher education and then give a clear answer to what needs to be financed from public funds and, of course, also an amendment to preserve the development of the Slovenian language in science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u14	The text is given by the Joint Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. We can't support a novel that wants to deepen the commercialisation of higher education and impose entrepreneurial logic where it doesn't belong. In addition, the novel does not regulate the financing of higher education in a suitable way, but rather rather than patch a hole, instead of making quality and affordable public education a priority development area in Slovenia. Above all, the novelty completely ignores the issue of public service, although the regulation is not only necessary, but is also required by the decision of the Constitutional Court. Three key sets should be highlighted in the novel. First of all, we have internationalization here. Most of the content of the novel ZVIS is dedicated to internationalisation, but it should not be controversial, rather vice versa; science and education should not be caught within any borders, not even within national borders and borders of national language. The real possibility of implementing the programmes is in a foreign language only, and of course in English is that point which has triggered the most opposition from different parts. Today, too, we will probably hear a lot about this subject, especially from the point of view of cultural and nationalist treatment of Slovenian, but this conservative view really overlooks the real reasons for the harmfulness of this provision. The adoption of such a provision would have a negative impact on the quality of the study itself, since the relevant levels of foreign language knowledge are not required for either lecturers or students, while at the same time it puts Slovenian and foreign students in an unequal position. But what's crucial, what's behind this controversial article, is finding new sources of profit. University elites hand in hand with the Government – however, there is a human resources overlap between academic Mandarins on the one hand and the Government on the other – want to allow the colleges to focus increasingly on market-oriented foreign language programmes offered to students from abroad and to be charged with tuition fees or commercially marketed. In this way, of course, students and students would lose opportunities to study in some programmes in the Slovenian language. In addition, the reduction in the role of the Slovenian language would have a significant impact on other aspects, such as the translation activity or production of scientific or theoretical texts, which would then be known in less accessibility to the general public and still in the less involvement of students in reading more difficult content. In the United Left, we are talking about defending ourselves from the commercialisation of higher education, with which they want to strengthen the privileged academic elites, not so much for the critical defence of national language on some sentimental basis, which leads me to the issue of funding. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport should ensure the stable and long-term financing of the university by law, as required by Article 58 of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2011. The novelty provides budget resources for a study activity of 1% of the gross social product, but this formula is questionable – not only because of the harmful fiscal rule, but because of the definition of coordination with real GDP growth, which excludes inflation. In the current economic situation, this is not problematic and may potentially lead to a real reduction in funding for higher education. And this is the Ministry of Finance butter, which, by its logic of neck tightening, holds all the key social subsystems. And here's another detail: this level of funding, says 1% of GDP, is expected to come in 15 years. So the government would like to devote 1% of GDP to higher education, but not until 15 years later. It should be recalled that the National Higher Education Programme provides for the financing of higher education to be 2% of GDP by 2020 – better said to be 2% of GDP by 2020. Then there's democratisation. This is an important positive part of the novel, which was put there on the proposal of trade unions, not the ministry. The general and direct elections of dean and rectors, which give electoral rights to all employees and students, are an important – modest but important – step towards the democratisation of universities that preserve many undemocratic and untransparent, feudal ways of managing. The very lack of democratic mechanisms is an important defender of academic Mandarins or academic elites. Here I should point out that this is a well-known demand for student movements for some time; even during the 2011 philosophical faculty session we have been articulating the demand for the democratisation of the university just as a form of democratic control over academic elites, because the very lack of this control has, as we know, led to the payment of astronomical fees and the resignation of the former Minister of Education and so on. In fact, I am pleased that after five years of pressure from the unions and students below, the issue is regulated. But as it is said, this is only the beginning of the beginning, the first step; until the complete democratisation of the university will be a long time. It should be noted, however, that part of non-pedagogical workers, such as cleaning staff in colleges, work through external operators, as in public administration, are in a poorer social situation, while at the same time being without political right to participate in elections. The main flaw in the marriage proposal is not what is in it, but what is missing in it. The Novivela ZVIS does not contain a distinction between private activity and public, accessible to all residents of higher education. Instead of the definition of public service, new concepts are introduced and the unconstitutional situation is only deepening. A private part that is profit-oriented should be clearly and strictly separated from the public, and we can again recall former Minister Stanko Setnikar Cankar, and now also former Finance Minister Dusan Marble, who, in addition to regular salaries, earned huge fees in a very controversial and unjustifiable way. There is not even a precise definition of a direct pedagogical obligation in the new law, even though there are serious violations in this area, and young academic reprimands are placed in the most unequal position. The proposal for an Act on Complementation of the Higher Education Act expresses the interests of a privileged group of academic elites, because instead of internationalisation, which would go towards the progress of academic workers and improve the ability of students for quality studies, it only brings internationalisation as a ground for further intrusion of market logic into higher education. This is a very harmful practice, as evidenced by years of poor experience, which leads to a deterioration in the position of most employees, leads to lower quality studies, and in particular reduces the accessibility of studies to all, regardless of the social background. What is positive in this novel is the steps towards democratising the university's feudal system, because they have the potential to hold the wings of academic elites, but these provisions have been found in this novel on the basis of a multi-annual, five-year pressure on trade union and student movements, not from the depths of the goodness of the Ministry of Education's heart. In short, the new ZVIS, which will cause an even greater erosion of public, affordable higher education for all, will not receive support in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u16	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u17	Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The Law on Higher Education is extensive and brings a number of changes in the field of higher education. Let's put out a new model of funding for the study activity. By proposing the establishment of a four-year model, the amendment will comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which ordered the legislator to impose a stable method of financing the study activity. Novela is expanding the membership of the Academic Assembly and the election right for the elections of the Dean and the Rector. The law also removes bureaucratic barriers, suspends the duplication of procedures and, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which is very important for Christian Democrats, introduces greater autonomy for higher education institutions in their operations. The law introduces the accreditation of higher education institutions, and in this context they will be able to change themselves, to adapt their study programmes to meet the actual needs of time. A very important change, which has also led to the greatest resistance of the professional public, literary creators, academics and even foreign Slovenes, is the expansion of the possibility of conducting study programmes in a foreign language. The law allows for the implementation of study programmes or parts thereof in a foreign language, if they are carried out in a comparable, not only the same study programmes in the Slovenian language. All study programmes may be implemented in foreign languages, not only parts thereof, if they are carried out by visiting higher education teachers from abroad, or if they are entered by a larger number of foreign students. This amendment introduces the legal basis for the degradation of Slovenian and, in our view, also for the poverty of its development at all levels and areas. The proposed solution could even lead to absurdity by teaching Slovenian students about Slovenian taxpayers' money in English. We can't do this in New Slovenia and we won't land. We call on the Ministry to listen to the loud calls and also to constructive proposals of the Slavist profession and to prepare appropriate amendments on the mother's working body, which will adequately place the Slovenian language in higher education. We live in Slovenia, our official language is Slovenian, in addition to Italian and Hungarian in national mixed areas, so we demand and expect that Slovenian remain the language of lectures also on the higher education level. Only then will this type of language develop properly. With new phenomena, discoveries and development achievements we will also get the right expression in Slovenian. In Novi Slovenije we wonder whether this law is new proof that some high school stakeholders put only material interests first and do not realize the damage that uncontrolled introduction of foreign language lectures would cause to Slovenian language. Of course, it is essential and necessary for Slovenians to know and use foreign languages. It is not necessary, however, for Slovenian lecturers to teach and pass their knowledge on to Slovenian students in a foreign language for which they are not even qualified. Will this really only improve the quality of our colleges and increase the enrolment of foreign students? Christian Democrats are also surprised by the procedure. In our view, it is a re-admission of the novel with the promise that a new comprehensive law will begin to be drawn up immediately after its adoption. We wonder why we should even accept partial amendments to the Higher Education Act and then, in a short period of time, redefine the area. This does not contribute to the stable functioning of the system. Especially because of the new model of funding for the study activity, since it takes at least a few years for a good analysis and assessment of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the law. Members of New Slovenia cannot support such a bill at first reading, although it also brings some very positive solutions. Economic interests must not be gravediggers of Slovenian. After all, do our relatives in the home really need to remind us of what we want to do with our higher education in Slovenia? After all, can we afford to have our highly esteemed writer Boris Pahor declare that he will step out of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts if we adopt law in such a form? Is it not also an insult to Primož Trubar, who published the first book of Catechism and the Alphabetnic so that we can read God’s Word or something else in our own language? I believe that this is also an insult to Prešern, who has proved that even in Slovenian we can express our deepest feelings in various poetic forms. This is also an insult to all those who have sought the Slovenian University. And, Madam Minister, please don't be the victims again of those who put economic interests first. Dear fellow Members and Messengers, let us not be gravediggers of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u18	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The law on higher education, which we have today on the parliamentary benches, is undoubtedly one of the key laws for the issue of an important part of the Slovenian educational system. In view of the percentage of young people and sometimes some of us older people opt for higher education, this is a law that has an important impact on the life of a very large generation. We need to give him a lot of attention and change him thoughtfully and thoroughly. Partial solutions, which seem to have little impact, can change the educational environment to the extent that we are no longer able to be proud of it. In the Group of Unaffiliated Members, we believe that the amendment to the Higher Education Act brings some good solutions that represent a step forward in the area of higher education. The Ministry has prepared a paper that eliminates the lack of compliance with the Constitution with regard to the financing of higher education, and we will see whether, in practice, it will mean that we have found a way to finance universities in a stable and long-term manner. Unfortunately, there are also some provisions that we cannot deal with. More importantly, a rather extensive novelty does not address some of the open issues that we believe should be addressed. Among the latter, an open question remained regarding the definition of the scope and content of the public service in higher education. Despite the fact that the Ministry had already written down in the introduction of the novel that these changes would take place in 2017, we ask in the Group of Non-Aligned Members why they have not taken advantage of the opportunities already. The Government is bound by the Constitutional Court's decision and we fear that this time it will be the same as the new Education and Education Financing Act. The definition of the scope and content of the public service is inseparably linked to funding, so it is a very sour apple, but it will certainly have to be bitten. Almost all Members representing the views of the groups before me have also pointed out the aspect of Slovenian or of the learning language. We also received a number of letters from the parliamentary group. Many opinions and criticisms were heard in the public at the expense of the implementation of the entire study programmes in the foreign language. We also agree in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that Slovenian universities should not close doors before the world; in the end, science and research should not know state borders. However, we must not forget students who are primarily assigned to Slovenian higher education if we wish for the greatest possible international openness. These are, no matter what anyone wants, still to the greatest extent Slovenian students. And if we are to adapt the programmes to foreigners, we need to ensure that the content is accessible to those who want to study in Slovenian using the same programs. We cannot be proud that some students do not master any foreign language after the study has been completed, even though the educational system has given them the opportunity to win it. However, it would not be right for students to be able to choose certain programmes in the Slovenian language at all. We have not yet forgotten in the Group of Unaffiliated Members the dust which rose in the course of the affairs of the permanent readiness allowances and with the fees of higher education teachers. Therefore, we would expect that they have not forgotten about the Government and that they will send a proposal to the National Assembly to bring appropriate solutions and answers to still open questions. Since this is not the case, we cannot support the novels in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u20	We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u21	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian higher education space is in fact one of the key pillars of national identity and the development perspective of our country and community. It is therefore extremely important that any change be addressed with significant consideration and, above all, with an appropriate measure of rationality and understanding of the global circumstances which dictate this type of space. There is probably no one who would not agree that this space needs to be updated, refreshed, and that because the number of stakeholders and the complexity of the regulatory arrangements in this area have also meant that we have been delaying the most urgent for five years, as ordered by the Constitutional Court, but with everything else that belongs to it, it is also necessary to understand the law-makers, the Ministry that they have decided, in the logic of preparation, a safer way, perhaps even more opportunistic, but that which can lead to the end of the Higher Education Act, at least in the most urgent part of the parliamentary process. Will this law be able to resolve the final issue of internationalisation, quality, the relationship between higher education institutions, the issues of inflation of private higher education institutions of questionable quality – I am not talking about all, I am talking about those with doubt? I don't know, in some segments, yes, in some, no. However, it is important that, in all the criticisms rightly addressed to this law, we also make it clear that, after years of instability – and also, here, I dare say thesis, in fact, of feudal and kindergarten squabbles within the higher education community – the law will allow some peace and some stability to address the substantive issues that the integrated regulation of the higher education field requires. This, of course, cannot be done without adequate additions and corrections to the second reading of the law, because I believe it will be adopted first; the latter, of course, concern the more appropriate definition of use and protection, as well as the development of the Slovenian language, and of course the public service, which, at least as regards the constitutional decision, is crucial or even the most important in terms of social democrats. However, the next phase will also have to address key issues, such as the question of what we really want with the dispersion of knowledge, how we want to link the research sphere to the economic potential that university research has. Of course, we can do this in two ways: through the knowledge of students and students who work in the economy, in the public sector and wherever they are, they use and apply their knowledge on the market or in the public sector, and through what is happening to us today in the gray zone and completely unregulated – i.e. spin offe, direct economic enterprises resulting from university research results. This is an area that needs to be supported, while at the same time ensuring that some of the economic applications will also have public infrastructure that, through the added value created through it, can be further strengthened; here is an important emphasis, particularly the basic knowledge that I think is neglected in public perception. Because when we take the right and duty to finance and ensure a high standard of basic research, and also the role of the university in this, we will also lose its application potential and thus the ability to provide adequate added knowledge. Even though it is extremely extensive material, it is also regulated by this ZVIS in an important part. If I just say about quality, about internationalisation and what's not relevant, it's been over-examined. And this is an extension for the systematic regulation of the third level of education – a doctoral study – and thus the placement of our universities and students in European space, competitive, perhaps even with a handful of advantages over others. And when we talk about internationalization, among other things, the presentations made by the groups of Members highlighted the question of who would go to study with us — those from the east or the west; that they might prefer someone from the west to those from the east. I would like Japanese, Australian, New Zealand students to study with us, and they also study because they recognize quality, as well as those who study and come from the West, for example, from the United States, few. In fact, the key question is why Erasmus’s programmes are not used in their fullness and what else is available to Slovenian students and students, which suggests that internationalisation as such is crucial today, and we still do not give enough emphasis. And in this marriage there are extensions for that. What is particularly important is that, in some way, in all the debates of the stakeholders, we make it clear that it is also necessary to stop the feudalisation within the higher education system, that there is a need to take a step forward in healthy competitiveness but quality-based competitiveness, on the basis of adequate research support and, clearly, understanding that the teaching process and the research process are essentially linked. And I sincerely hope that the possibility of institutional accreditation will also contribute to better quality of Slovenian university space, including from this title, to be less burdened by bureaucracy and to better adapt to modern trends. The two things that remain for us after the first reading are the question of public service and the issue of Slovenian language. This must be addressed as necessary, but this is something that parliamentary treatment is also intended for. Allow me to conclude by saying a sentence about what I think has been overlooked at all. Among other things, this novel ZVIS builds on the health care of students and students. This is something that has been completely forgotten in recent years. This novel ZVIS fully includes students and students in academic assemblies. It enables real implementation of the university's autonomy in its full democratic capacity. Of course, not all laws will be made; above all, they will have to step forward by all stakeholders and, above all, there will be many in our higher education and university space — as was the case with Luka Koper — to take a breath, to put aside their own interest and to think about what is the interest of the State, what is the interest of the university and what is its or our duty in terms of the long-term development of the country. And we can do this, with everything we have, especially in the National Assembly, by taking a rational look at what is on the table, what needs to be changed, and by not allowing partial interests to lead us to harmonise two key issues and, in the autumn, to resubmit the issue of opening a completely new law, while we have everything that is also in this good, unresolved. Because Slovenia's higher education space, if any, needs an update, because inflation of quality programs, which double, triple, count, tells us that users, namely students, researchers, cannot be satisfied with the current state of affairs and are not. And sometimes the process of taking action and decision is the right way to achieve the final goal, as has already been said, also through urgent corrections concerning the public service and the Slovenian language, in the context of the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u22	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik and Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u23	Again.Dear Madam Minister, I have no doubt about the good intentions you have expressed with this law, and I also know that there are good solutions in it. But I'm going to stop again at a problem of language that really worries me, and it's also bothering me. Not that I am afraid of foreign languages; I myself had to listen to half of the lectures in a foreign language because I was studying German, but my teachers, the lecturers, were highly qualified for it — whether German was their mother tongue or had a high knowledge of that foreign language in which they taught. However, we all know that all experts, all lecturers in higher education institutions, are not so qualified in a foreign language that they can give a sovereign lecture so that their knowledge is truly so perfect. On the other hand, why should Slovenian students be taught in foreign languages? Why would I do that? Is it really such a contribution to knowledge or quality if foreign students come, who are also usually English not their mother tongue? Do they really bring so much knowledge that we have to risk our mother tongue? You know, when we talked about Slovenian music quotas in our media, we have, some of you have been very committed to having more Slovenian music, and so do I. However, that law is inappropriately less important than this law, which can also be fatal. If we remember, each addiction begins with small amounts — alcohol, drugs, or anything else — and this increases. And since our economic or academic sphere is not immune to material benefits, I apologize to all those who work honestly and are underpaid, then we know where it can lead. And since today’s world is spinning so fast — so much new knowledge, so many new expressions — we must follow it very quickly. And if at academic level we ignore language development, it will be known at all levels. This will then be required for more foreign languages in secondary schools.I do not mind that our students, that we know better foreign languages; I also like to learn them, thank God I also know something, but always too little, because it gives us more power, we are more competent, we have more options, this is for sure. [[…]] However, this can be transferred to all levels after, until this point, when we say, "We do not need Slovenian, we do not need Slovenian writers to write in English or any other language, because they will sell their books more easily". Our students must also learn foreign languages, language for their area, as they also study literature in foreign languages several times. Of course, I am opposed to increasing the number of lectures or not having the same programs in Slovenian and thus giving students the opportunity to listen to the lecture in their own language. Let's keep an eye on this, and let's not be gravediggers of the Slovenian language.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u24	Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u25	Dear President, distinguished Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education and before us is the new amendment to the law. I will not list all the content because it is quite a few of the content that is very useful, or I will say which are key to the creation of the higher education system, as set out in the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020. The Novela also talks about the amendment of Article 8 of the Law, which touches on the use of language in our school system. Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia tells us that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian, and this is one protection for the Slovenian language. Nevertheless, I believe that it is necessary to lay down precise conditions for the implementation of substantive and formal comparable study programmes, as well as to clearly define the implementation of study programmes. I think there are too many conditions for determining the number of foreign students. What is that supposed to mean in practice? The proposal shall include a lecture in a foreign language where a larger number of foreign students are enrolled in the programme. Number not defined. Does this mean that 3, 4 students already mean a larger number and in this case a Slovenian professor would teach 20, 30 Slovenian students in English? The proposal is that it could be taught in a foreign language if parts of the study programmes in the higher education institution are also carried out in the Slovenian language. Would this in practice mean that a professor who has 45 hours of lectures would have 5 hours of lectures in Slovenian as part of a study program and the remaining 40 in a foreign language? It is also necessary to identify what changes to this Article mean financially for the State and the University. Our higher education system is at the European Summit on Social Rights and regular studies are free of charge. What would happen if a number of places of entry in a regular study were occupied by candidates from other countries? It also raises the question of what it means to leave the compulsory scope of the educational process in the Slovenian language entirely to universities and the quality aspect of the implementation of the educational process in terms of knowledge of English – professors, graduates, students and foreign students. In the light of all these uncertainties, further cooperation and coordination between the Ministry and all stakeholders is essential, in spite of Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to further safeguard the additional language. Throughout history, Slovenian has proved to be a successful and hardy language in which we can rightly be proud. The great Slovenians have also contributed greatly to this, with their knowledge, their ability, their charisma, their personality, especially in the cultural field, in the artistic field, or in the scientific field, to their voice in the world, so that Slovenia was recognizable and still recognizable in the world. However, they were proud of their roots, proud of their tradition, and proud of the Slovenians. Today, Slovenian is one of the official languages of the European Union and has a unique position among languages throughout its history. That is why it is important to think carefully about what the amendment to Article 8 means for citizens, for students, whether it is foreign or ours, and especially for the future of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u26	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mrs Vesna Vervega and the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In my debate, I will focus on Article 1 of the novel, which refers to the amendments to Article 8 of the current Higher Education Act, which is a learning language. If I go back a little bit to history, let me remind you that on 3 December 1919 he had his first lecture at the then newly founded University of Ljubljana Fran Ramovš, linguist, nomadic and nomadic. At the first lecture at the University of Ljubljana Ramovš spoke about the historical vocabulary of the Slovenian language. This day still our university celebrates as its holiday. This is mainly because I want to stress how important the Slovenian language is – not only for the university, but for the Slovenian people. It is true that maintaining and continuously enriching the Slovenian language also requires knowledge of other languages, especially their professional terms. However, we must not allow programmes for foreign students to replace programmes for Slovenian students. Lack of concern for the Slovenian language is the thing that bothered me most about the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act, but unfortunately I am not the only one. Last time I checked, more than 8 000 500 people signed an online petition with an important title "For the Comprehensive Development of Slovenian Language". Therefore, allow me to read the next statement of the Slavic Society of Slovenia, because I think it is right that it is fully heard in this Chamber. I quote: "All of us who care about better and faster development of Slovenian in all areas are protesting the obvious neglect of our own language in higher education. We note that the proposals for the amendment of the Higher Education Act also guide the deterioration of the position of Slovenian as a learning language. Ambiguities regarding the definition of the language implementation of certain study programmes and the proposed extended possibilities for the implementation of study programmes in foreign language without specific conditions and the provision for the implementation of substantive and formal comparable study programmes in Slovenian mean the fragmentation of professional content in Slovenian and thus prevent their accessibility in Slovenia at all. When adopting the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act, we note that the articles dealing with the learning language ignore the need for continued development of the multilingualism of Slovenian, which is a fundamental condition for its smooth comprehensive further development." End of quote. Dearly beloved, I am convinced that taking care of the Slovenian language must be one of the main priorities, not only of the Ministry of Education, for culture or for some other. The concern for the Slovenian language must be our shared task and obligation if we are to stand as a nation in this globalised world, if I can borrow the word link that Primož Trubar wrote in the first Slovenian book in 1550. I therefore sincerely hope and believe that the competent ministry will find a common language with the professional public and in the novel of the Higher Education Act will adequately protect the Slovenian language and ensure its comprehensive development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u28	The word has Vesna Verveg, to be prepared by Mrs Minister and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the rest of you are present! The Law on Higher Education is being addressed this time, and I will just use the term – some acute questions, especially from higher education. And among these are undoubtedly the first to establish a predictable and stable system of financing, then the second question of the system's openness to the international environment or internationalisation, then the transition to institutional accreditation, and of course the very important area of democratisation or the regulation of student rights. Let me stop by for a little while while you're accrediting. In view of the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020, it is necessary to strengthen the quality at institutional level and to increase the responsibility of higher education institutions for changing study programmes. How is this defined in the current law? The higher education establishments shall fulfil the conditions for carrying out their activities with the first accreditation at the time of the establishment and accreditation of study programmes, which shall be extended every 7 years. There are, of course, external accreditations. What does a concrete change bring? Therefore, after a change, the first accreditation of the higher education institution in the establishment shall be carried out, which shall be certified every 5 years, but no accreditation of the study programme shall be necessary, of course, except for the first one. Thus, higher education institutions will themselves change the mandatory components of the study programmes, of course according to European standards and quality assurance guidelines. Of course, the most controversial in the public, as we have already heard, has been the result of an amendment to Article 8 which addresses the learning language. I would just like to quote this part, or some of the important paragraphs referred to in this Article, as a basis for further discussion. The first paragraph says, "The learning language is Slovenian." Next: "Universal institutions may carry out study programmes in a foreign language if comparable study programmes in the higher education institution are also carried out in the Slovenian language." In the next debate, as we have already heard, it is likely that this term, expression, the word "comparable" will have to be defined more precisely. And this is, I would say, a stumbling block, it causes so much controversy and I'm also in the position that it needs to be defined, more precisely defined. The title of one of the articles we read about this novel of the Higher Education Act was: "Does the Slovenian University kneel before English?" My opinion is no. Allow me to mention what has already been mentioned, but I will repeat and supplement what legal basis we already have in the Slovenian language: Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Law on the Public Use of Slovenian – Articles 12 and 13, Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2014–2018, Resolution on the National Programme of Higher Education, Chapter Internationalisation. Let me mention a few more facts: Of 900 accredited study programmes in Slovenia, only 18 are fully implemented in foreign language, 3 to 6% of all students in Slovenia have permanent residence abroad, Slovenia has the lowest share of foreign students in Europe among smaller countries, in three universities – Ljubljana, Maribor and Primorska University – about 3.5% of enrolled students listen to them in whole or in part to lectures in foreign language, where foreign language learning programmes are not included. But let me make it clear that I do not think in any way that the use, simultaneous use of the Slovenian language and foreign language is exclusive. It is therefore important that we deal much more with the question of whether internationalisation is possible when Slovenian is preserved and developed as a professional and scientific language, and whether it offers us this amendment to the law. We have certainly already had multilingualism; from kindergarten to high school we care and introduce such foreign languages, early learning of foreign language in primary school, then learning two foreign languages in secondary school. So we don't actually have any problems with that. On the higher level, however, they appear. I would like to conclude by quoting an open letter from the scientific councils of the Chemical Institute and the National Institute of Biology. He says: "Slovakia has proved to be a very successful and hard-working language through history – mostly in a much more difficult situation – in which we can rightly be proud. We will not guarantee its further development in such a way as to isolate ourselves from the world, but to connect with it even more. Slovenia and Slovenia need more confidence, more openness and tolerance towards others and different, and finally more efforts for excellence in all areas." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u30	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor to prepare Dr Dragan Matić and Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you, Chairman. Respected and respected! He explained a few things about the proposed article in the learning language. Firstly and again, the learning language in higher education curricula is and will remain Slovenian. And this is the first priority, not only of self, but also of the use, preservation and development of the Slovenian language. The purpose of this Article was, in fact, to define much better under which exceptions it is permissible to share programmes or programmes or under appropriate conditions involving foreign higher education professors, researchers or students, however, these programmes may not necessarily be implemented in a foreign language of any other language. Why did we write that down? So that there is no misunderstanding of what these prerequisites really are. However, in order to clarify these possible exceptions even more clearly and in fact, we have committed ourselves to the Ministry of Culture, even in the proposed article, within the framework of the Rules, to define this much better and more clearly at the implementation and operational level, as is then the commitment to implementation in higher education institutions. That is why I would like to point out, in particular, the way in which implementation is essential here. At the moment, over 900 accredited programmes are being implemented in the Slovenian language, i.e. those who are currently in higher education activities in the course of implementation. 18 are such that they are carried out in part or in full in a foreign language, not only in English, but also in others. This actually represents only a fraction, a very small part of the programme offer in foreign languages. What is also important is that at the moment there are more Slovenian students or those who attend Slovenian language at foreign universities – we encourage more than 60 universities in the world to teach either in compulsory, optional, optional Slovenian language. At this time there are 2 000 700 and we will also continue to encourage these lecturerates, precisely to strengthen this awareness of the Slovenian language or to empower those who wish to enter our premises with knowledge, behaviour about Slovenian language and Slovenian culture. At the moment, however, with permanent residence in Slovenia, there are foreign students; these are 2 000 300 according to current data. They come from very different countries. All foreign students — those who come temporarily and those who are resident — all of them are currently from 93 countries in the world, so they are not just from some parts. They are very different in terms of both cultural perceptions and purposes, motives, whether they want to stay here for a shorter time, the longer the parts of the programmes they want to listen to, not only in Erasmus frameworks. What I would also like to add is that the care for the use of the Slovenian professional and scientific language takes place continuously, and this is one of the fundamental tasks of the university or all higher education institutions. In terms of scientific monographs, the number of support for those in the Slovenian language is increasing; this is what I am saying for the period 2013-2015. The level of these funds is also stable. We also add to the individual additional forms proposed by the institutions additional research resources, in particular when it comes to national self-sustaining activities, i.e. those areas that are key to maintaining national vision, either cultural or historical or any other, including ethnic views. These are specific study activities that really require and must have special support, either through the research agency or through other higher education institutions. At the same time, the publications of Slovenian researchers are growing. When we talk about professional publications, these are mostly in the Slovenian language and there are several foreign scientific publications, of course in foreign languages, because this is also about meeting the conditions of habilitation or putting an individual in higher education. Why do I illustrate a little bit more with the data? In order to know that the use of foreign language in higher education, of course in connection with scientific and research space, already exists, it is also present for reasons of opening up to the world and comparability. On the other hand, we want to strengthen and maintain professionalism, especially the development of scientific cohorts in the Slovenian language. And with all these forms, including terminological dictionaries, which we co-finance through research activity, including various forms of the work of the Slovenian Language Centre as well as other foreign languages, these are key activities that concern the development, use and, of course, the upgrading of the Slovenian language in the professional scientific field. However, our commitment is, as has been heard from your debate and as we have already discussed with those stakeholders who have warned about the use and preservation of the Slovenian language, that by means of this instrument of the Rules and clear commitments, how we maintain, develop and substantiate the expertise and science of the Slovenian language, we are aware of this in the Regulation. If necessary, it is even clearer in the extra indents of the law itself. At the same time, we would like to open up space for those who want to gain competence for their career development in other areas, as other higher education worlds around us do, of course. Let me say that two-thirds of EUA members, this is a higher education association of the entire European space, even leaves the choice and use of language to the institutions themselves. We believe that this is wrong and that is why we have also proposed clearer rules of application, and when, under these exceptions or conditions, they can offer parts of programmes or entire programmes in a foreign language. This certainly requires the competence of lecturers as well as students. And that is why we will not only maintain concern for Slovenian languages throughout the vertical area, it is the first and primary, but also to raise the competences for the use of foreign languages, as we have also proposed at the levels of education and education either at the secondary level, at the primary level or in so-called study or other optional activities of individuals, young people, children. Perhaps so in explaining and certainly in the commitment that, given the whole discussion and discussion, there is also no fear of flooding universities with foreign-language programmes with the Slovenian language. This must not or will not be, because first of all it is necessary to ensure conservation, good use, quality use of the Slovenian language, which I do not think is just a domain of higher education. On the contrary, it is a domain not only of the entire educational vertical, but of us all as works of the general public and of course of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u32	Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u33	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Unlike some of the predecessors, who were quite critical of the novel that we are considering today, I would like to start by thanking the Minister and her team or by giving her recognition, as well as the working group that worked on the preparation of this novel or, I understand, further working on the preparation of the law on research and development activities. I think that very little is taken into account the actual situation in which we are in this area. The reality is, however, that we have a 1993 law that has not undergone any major changes, except cosmetics, to date. That we have a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2011, which states that, in fact, funding in the field of higher education is very weak or practically empty. And the fact is that no step has been taken since this decision of the Constitutional Court in five years to resolve these challenges facing the area of higher education. Opposers or critics of the novel, in particular, insist that the novel does not define the scope of the public service. I think that this criticism is rather unfounded because the need to resolve this problem has been exposed. And in this respect, I would also agree with Mr Škobernet that there is a problem that has been so long unresolved that it is probably worth dealing with gradually, in several stages. The novel, which we are considering, will lay a solid foundation in the form of a stable and predictable funding model, set out the conditions and criteria for obtaining public funding for the study activity, and on this basis it will be easier to build a comprehensive law that is already being drawn up – as already said, a law on research and development activities. Without this coordination between education and research, we would probably get another model that would be flawed. If we are talking about the use of foreign language in higher education, it seems strange to me that an attempt by the Ministry to make an unregulated area where, in fact, there has been so far, that approaches in the implementation of programmes in foreign language have been left to individual higher education institutions, that is to say that this novel is understood as a solution to a lesser degree as a positive solution, but that it is perceived as an attack on the essence of Slovenia or the undermining of national identity and is expected to be a knife in this Chamber as well as in the general public. The fact is that the law now in force is completely relaxed; while it provides for a regulation that should define the use of Slovenian as a higher education and scientific language in more detail, this rule has never been adopted. For what it's worth, it would be good to ask the former ministers. This novel, which we have today under consideration, also provides for a regulation specifying the exact conditions for exceptions to the principle that the learning language is in the higher education area of Slovenia. This certainly makes sense because in 900 programmes where we have completely different situations, both as regards the content of teaching as well as the meetings or the number of private listeners, it is, of course, difficult to expect all solutions to be properly and precisely defined and defined in law. Novela foresees that this sub-law will be adopted jointly by the Minister of Education and the Minister of Culture, and that is why I have no doubt that it is a sufficient systemic guardian of the position of the Slovenian language, as Mrs Minister spoke about a few minutes ago. I believe and hope that the creation of this Regulation will also involve the concerned public, in particular the Slovenians, while at the same time including representatives of universities, and will result in a satisfactory outcome. In fact, I believe that this is a solution that has no alternative; both interests – both the openness of universities, which is a prerequisite for the use of foreign language in certain cases and to an acceptable extent in the learning process, such as the preservation of Slovenian as a learning language – are legitimate and indisputable. I fully understand the concern of many prominent individuals for the Slovenian language, but it seems to me that by asserting how, or by the presence of English in Slovenian universities, our language will be threatened to exaggerate, especially with some syntagms, that some gravediggers of the Slovenian language are meant to be in this way. It seems to me that this thinking is to some extent frozen in time and space. Some have apparently estimated that the battle is still on the front, which existed in the 19th century and early 20th century, when efforts were made to create Slovenian universities. At that time, nationalist scrupulously fought for Slovenian intelligence or every intelligence in particular. In this concern, which is expressed in such a very concrete and very temperamental way, the concern for Slovenian language is, in my opinion, the present absence of a sense of concern whether the higher education institutions will remain sufficiently involved in the flow of knowledge or whether, due to the cursing of language puritanism in the international higher education environment, we will remain exceptional, especially not to say special. Those who are so deeply concerned about the possibility of some programmes being implemented in English might, however, be able to shift part of this highly respected concern to other areas that are far more important in the 21st century, such as the simultaneous translation of professional literature and its widest accessibility through modern communication tools. This would be a real concern for the development of the Slovenian language, for example. Or, for example, media coverage. Bad knowledge or use of Slovenian is a phenomenon that is present among young people rather than at the university. As Professor Tom Turk writes in yesterday's Work, I quote: "Today's elementary school and high school students are children of modern technology and virtual world. At any moment they are connected to the virtual world and are simultaneously disconnected from the real world, i.e. for us older in a variety of ways completely discounted. Here is where the biggest knead in the preservation of Slovenian – today’s youth reads no more, the book does not care, their vocabulary is shrinking, communication between them is happening quickly through social networks and smart phones in the language, which is some kind of mix of Slovenian-English magazines and abbreviations – the English language they master and understand. Of course, we must not condemn them, but the fact that all of this is also known in the skills of their written culture and expression, which they simply no longer control." So it is clear to me that the main battle for Slovenian is no longer between the cathedral and the student benches, but on the Internet and in the virtual world and, of course, in the field of digitisation and, of course, with it, inseparably linked globalisation. The vast majority of daily reporting, both public and private, passes into the digital environment, so it is extremely important that Slovenian remains as equipped for the digital age as languages with more speakers. Some languages of this transition are not expected to survive at all because they simply will not have the resources, tools and applications that speakers will want to use. As globalisation wipes out both physical and mental boundaries between languages, countries and nations, there is an examination of identity, including language. Therefore, it is essential that we equip ourselves with language for the coming period. In its own language, it will be necessary to communicate with virtual assistants, robots, cars and household appliances. Slovenia will also have to understand artificial intelligence, with the help of machine translation systems, Slovenia will have to be integrated into the European digital market, and at national level it will have to become a functional part of e-education, e-Health, e-Justice and so on. Other nations in Europe invest hundreds of millions in the development of digital applications and language technologies. Unfortunately, we are far from that knowledge. And as it seems, some feel that the battle for Slovenian is being waged on my opinion not the most important fronts, in this case in the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor, the mags are being prepared. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mrs Irene Grošelj Kosnik. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u35	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, in fact, I am surprised by this doubt in support of the amendment of the law, given that, in general, various political parties often beat each other's chests, that young people need to be listened to, but today, of course, we have a new law publicly supported by the Student Organisation of Slovenia and also by the Council of the RS Government for Student Issues. In any case, I think the novelty is certainly necessary, because it establishes a predictable and stable funding system, as a transparent system of budgetary resources for the study activity between individual higher education institutions is laid down, in accordance with the indicators allowing for the development of the study activity. The novelty retains integral funding, with, of course, the target value of the budget allocated for this activity being set at 1% of GDP. It's true, it's not small, it's true, it's in the future; but forgive me, we haven't had this goal since independence. And if I speak in the light of the higher quality of higher education; together with the objective of financing the novel, it introduces institutional accreditation, which means changes related to the functioning of the NAKVIS. In view of the complications, terminations and terminations of study programmes, which, of course, were media-responsive – the last case was in Primorska – the responsibility of higher education institutions will certainly increase in this respect in changing their study programmes. Thus, the novelty follows the idea of the autonomy of higher education institutions, while also requiring the level of responsibility that this autonomy brings. It should be stressed that the amendment of the law seeks to further democratise the management of higher education institutions by establishing an inclusive process for electing a Rector, which means that electoral rights will also be granted to non-peducal workers. This will also set up the rector's recall institute. Direct dean elections will be established, and the academic assembly will extend to non-pedagogical workers. Which means all the changes that the university public and the students have been expecting for a long time, and no one, unfortunately, has been listening. That the novelties of the law really follow the needs of students also show changes concerning the establishment of higher education institutions, where, of course, these conditions will become much more acute. Both in the definition of the study areas where the international classification will be used, and of course in the scientific and research areas which will, of course, be qualified by international Frascat classification. Of course, adequate facilities and equipment for the implementation of the programme will have to be provided, especially for the staff, i.e. higher education teachers, academics and co-workers needed for the implementation of this programme itself. So it will no longer be possible to witness some media reverberating stories where, in a certain smaller circle of residential colleagues, they have agreed to have little of their own high school, cadres and premises, and then for students who have even enrolled in this college, maybe even paid for it, it has not been adequately taken care of. This means, of course, that there will have to be a clearer definition within the above-mentioned, and a more visible link with the research work and the environment of the newly established higher education institution. Here I would also continue to extend the rights of students relating to the easier continuation of the study after the completion of the first stage, where the status is extended by 12 months in the transition to second-degree study programmes, and in that time, of course, the student will be able to preserve all rights belonging to him on the basis of his status. It will also allow for the co-financing of a doctoral study after a multi-annual break, which means that funds in this part will be provided from budgetary resources. The rights of students in the field of healthcare are also being increased. You know very well that due to the current ZVIS, the percentage of students conducting the preventive review fell below 50% today, and this is of course worrying. Thus, the amendment introduces a mandatory preventive systematic medical examination of students of the first year of the first grade study programme, meaning, of course, at the beginning of their study. I would also like to mention the introduction of a register called the EVC, which will allow for research and monitoring of the employability of students and graduates, i.e. when they are hired, when they stop their employment, which they carry out according to their studies and so on. And, of course, student services will also be able to access this data individually, thus preventing the possibility of misuse of forged registration certificates, which unfortunately has happened in the past. And now, of course, this hard nut, which concerns Article 8 or the learning language in our Slovenian school space. Personally, as someone who dedicated his life to the Slovenian word and its sound image, Slovenian language, Slovenian cultural identity and so on I personally think that this debate, this discourse, which took place both in the professional public and in the lay public, is completely exaggerated. [[...]] The novela of the law does not express the Slovenian scientific language, because the learning language as a Slovenian learning language remains written in the law. But it is true that it is allowed for colleges to be able to more internationalize their space, which is today, let's be honest, let's face it, explicitly, extremely difficult and narrow. And since it is simply necessary to cut the reading path that is taking place in public, this marked polarization, I would simply point out the dry matter of what is actually a broader picture that is actually addressed by the learning language. If we look across Europe, they have comparable countries, i.e. comparable under some historical circumstances and comparable to the number of inhabitants, such as Lithuania, Slovakia, Estonia, and Finland, these countries, for example, have thousands of accredited programmes – in English – between 350 and 400, in Finland even 550. In Slovenia we have 900 accredited programs, words and letters, 18. 18! This information also means that Members of the National Assembly must be aware that there are several students enrolled abroad who are learning Slovenian language, such as all foreign students who are studying in various fields in the Republic of Slovenia. So, we have more foreign students in Slovenian lecturerates who learn Slovenian than all foreign students in the Republic of Slovenia. This means that Slovenia has the lowest percentage of both foreign students and foreign professors in Europe. And if we want knowledge, if we want some broader mental horizons, then it will simply have to be opened. And I ask all those Slovenian champions, how is it possible that even today, if a Slovenian student wants to finish his studies, he simply has to read 80% of scientific literature in a foreign language – but this does not give rise to Slovenian scientific language? How is it possible that even today, in order for a Slovenian professor to extend his habilitation, he has to write scientific articles in English and publish them in foreign literature – but this does not give rise to Slovenian scientific language? So I think these statements and that such discourse is completely inappropriate and excessive and does not really respond to any appropriate picture of the situation we are in today. But it is true that this novel will make Slovenian professors much more comparable to foreign professors and internationally established professors. And now – I speak from a completely personal point of view – if I put on one side of the scale the concern for the career of Slovenian professors, which is unfortunately also concerned by some members of the National Assembly, and on the other hand the right of students to the widest possible knowledge, I will, if you will excuse me, decide on the right of students to whom this knowledge belongs and the State is obliged to give it to them. It's not a populist floscule, and I'll explain why. Last time I watched an event that happened at the Slovenian Matica, where some Slovenian academics expressed a protest about the novel of the law that we are considering today – I can say that I respect their opinion, I appreciate them as some of the academics – I think their opinion can be completely legitimate, but I simply cannot agree with their opinion and I do not agree. But I am saying this because, when I was monitoring this event, there was actually a generation gap between them, who were citing their arguments, and between me and my position, there was simply a generation gap between how we actually explain our cultural identity, if I may say so. In fact, it should be borne in mind that these esteemed gentlemen, whom, as it is said, I very much appreciate that their position on the importance of Slovenian language and cultural identity has emerged in some other historical circumstances. It was formed when Slovenians as a nation were persecuted, when we were not allowed to publicly express our cultural identity and we should not even use the Slovenian language. But these circumstances are different today. Today, we have our country, respect it, and be confident. Let us be confident citizens and simply show that we are not afraid to enter the space internationally, even by inviting foreign professors and foreign students to come to us and show us some different mental horizons than we have ourselves. Let them do it for us, as we allow Slovenian professors and Slovenian students to do it abroad. I think that those who say that the nation will disappear because certain professors will be giving lectures in English Forgive me if this is the reason for the nation to disappear, and then the nation simply deserves it. [[…]] In view of this, I must also respond to the implementation of the Slovenian Writers' Association, which called, in fact, for a very harsh account with those who find the amendment appropriate, and who also called on the Minister to resign, I would say that this same society of Mr Frelih in Brussels was represented in his own English and French language, although we all know very well that Slovenian is also the official language of the European Union. Moreover, this same company of Slovenian writers published foreign invitations on its website, and it did not bother to translate these invitations into Slovenian. This is a matter of concern and development of the Slovenian language! That's it! And given that the Association of Slovenian Writers is so engaged in various social issues, it would also expect a greater response from them, let's say in the latter case Flisar-Radljac, when the response to this case would be much more constructive and suitable for Slovenian cultural identity, as is the concern for the development of the Slovenian language. Nevertheless, it should react a little to the position of the Desus Group on the ignorance of coalition coordination. I welcome that coalition colleagues from Desus will overwhelmingly support the law in the first reading, but it is true that perhaps a number of their thoughts would be overturned if all coalition coordination concerning this novel law were to be carried out by Members and not at times only by their professional colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker. Here you go, Mrs. Juliana Bizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u37	Your Honor! We have before us an amendment to the Higher Education Act, which should be rejected as inappropriate. Not only because the SMC submitted it to the National Assembly for legislative procedure, but mainly because it did not comply with the other coalition partners, but mainly because: Firstly, because of the financial benefits of the university elite under the pretext of the need for internationalisation, it opens up the possibility of expelling Slovenian from the Slovenian University, which is not only slavery and linguistic apostasy, but also a proven harmful move for the quality of higher education, and it is also inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution of Slovenia and the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. Secondly, because the proposal is not in line with the expertise and other stakeholders in higher education, the public is only given the transmission and non-reality of the competent ministry and some others. Thirdly, since the novel opens the opportunity to co-finance the study to foreign students with the money of Slovenian taxpayers, this leads to less access to free regular and extraordinary study places for Slovenian students, the higher education union specifically points out. Fourthly, since the Higher Education Act does not define a public service at the university at all, it would be possible to adequately separate public from market activities, so that the clear obligations of the university and certain legal, human resources, administrative and financial frameworks for the functioning of universities or universities and certain supervision of universities, such as that of the Constitutional Court in its decision of 14 April 2011. Fifthly, because without the appropriate framework for the functioning of the university, it expands the autonomy of the university in a way that would leave the free design of study programmes to the universities after the first accreditation of the programmes, which would undoubtedly undermine the quality of studies financed from public funds. And six times, where these shortcomings are too extensive to be addressed by amendments in the legislative process. The new law is inconsistent with Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian, and with Article 12 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian, which stipulates that education and education in public programmes in Slovenian take place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, from pre-school education to university. However, the article 8 of the Higher Education Act is already in force. The fact that the Higher Education Act was derived considerably from domestic and under the influence of financial interest and a slave's attitude towards foreign education is evident from the content of the law and the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court, which has already assessed certain articles of the law and found their non-compliance with the Constitution. The New Law on Higher Education reminds us of the story of a fox that takes a crippled hedgehog into its lair and then the hedgehog shows the dagger and drives the fox out of its home. The new law aims to banish Slovenian language from Slovenian universities. Thus, it is sufficient for the complete expulsion of Slovenian from the university according to the proposal of the amendment of the law already to create joint programmes of the Slovenian University with which of the foreign universities. The entire study programme can also be carried out in English if a larger number of foreign students are enrolled in the programme, with "greater numbers" not being defined at all, or if a foreign teacher participates in the programmes. The entire study programme would also be implemented in foreign languages, as proposed by the novel, if there is any comparable study programme in Slovenian. New funding options are open to the university by implementing study programmes abroad in foreign languages. The financing of all of this, in the absence of basic criteria for the functioning of the university, is highly controversial, as the public service and its scope and supervision of the university in law are not properly defined. Despite the express request of the Constitutional Court to settle this. The inadequate law makes it possible to misuse the public funding allocated by taxpayers to a higher education study. Eminent Slovenians, among them the three-time doctor, photographer and writer, recipient of the title National of Europe, Dr. Evgen Bavcar, stressing that French professors do not come to the point of teaching in a foreign language at French universities. Anyone who wants to study in France, Italy and Germany must prove the knowledge of the languages there. The law is opposed by members of the Slovenian Matrix, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the Senate of the Faculty of Philosophy, the Slavistic Society, the Higher Education Union, the Toporišič Year Program Committee, the Association of Slovenian Writers requiring the withdrawal of Maja Makovec Brenčič and the second. I agree, there is a need for wide education, including knowledge of foreign languages. However, it is painful and harmful for the quality of education if Slovenian teachers teach Slovenian students in foreign languages at the Slovenian University. Many eminent Slovenians raise their voice to defend the Slovenian language these days. Let me mention, because I am running out of time, that it is particularly bad for me that at almost 103 years of age, Professor Boris Pahor, Slovenian Cultural Ambassador, who said that if Parliament adopts this amendment of the law, he will leave the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Dear Members, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Get Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker and Roberto Battelli ready. Here you go, Mrs. Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u39	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Today we have been discussing this novelty of the law for a long time. I would like to point out here in particular some of the positive salaries that this law introduces. The first is that we have not seen this law since its independence. The second is that we have a five-year-old decision of the Constitutional Court, which has not been implemented to date, and this law in the financing chapter also addresses this very problem, which is very important. Because universities and higher education institutions have so far not had a predictable and stable framework for predicting for the year ahead how their funding will take place, and this, in my opinion, is also linked to the autonomy of the higher education institution. In particular, I would like to point out here that, for the first time in this novel, such commitments and funding are also defined for the third level, which is said to be university studies. The second is that red tape is reduced and the quality culture is more stressed, as a single higher education institution is certainly the most motivated for its own quality and thus becomes a more responsible legal entity in this regard. And when institutional accreditation is granted, the institution can then define its own study programmes independently and more responsibly. Appropriately, I think that this law also refers to the democratisation of decision-making when it is called the Rector when it is called the Dean, and also how the academic assembly works, as non-educated workers will now participate. In particular, a new definition of student status is gratifying when student status is maintained by the end of the academic year and not by the end of the student year, as many times excellent and good students have been punished by this account, as many rights have been forfeited when they have completed their studies, including health insurance. Of course, we are also pleased with the almost anticipated comprehensive law, which will appropriately address and define research activities and the content of public service in line with current developments. With regard to the toughest walnut in 8th article, which was the most spiritist here today, I would stress that the learning language remains Slovenian, of course, also at universities, and that we know that Slovenian language is the foundation of national identity. It has been interpreted that this novel is essentially a very weak rule for teaching in a foreign language, in English, and I would like to point out that the rules already in force are such and that they do not have an appropriate sub-law and that this will in fact start to be regulated transparently. As far as the content of teaching in English is concerned, I would point out that English today is what on our soil was sometimes Latin, which was the official language of science and art. English is, no matter how we see it now, an indispensable and global language of communication in nature, medicine, technology, social science and, of course, it flows logically into study programs. Because the university can't be shut down. Only that name does the university indicate freedom, breadth and openness. And all of this essentially contains inherently different coexistence. So I look at the coexistence of different cultures, different ideas, different connections, as well as learning and using other languages besides the mother tongue as well as essentially wealth rather than poverty. This shows in all areas of life that diversity always enriches us. Already in the national programme by 2020, it is noted that the attractiveness of our study is at a very low level. In this I think that our quality is also related; otherwise indirectly, but still. Because if we have quality and recognized professors, including foreign professors, our quality of study will surely be obtained. Of course, university teaching also has more medals and, exceptionally, in English. This opens up a number of purely practical questions, such as the relationship between domestic and foreign students in an individual subject. To what extent do lecturers really speak foreign language, English, if they teach it, what does this mean for the quality given? This will, of course, have to be met by the clear rules that we expect in the law, because I think that such purely practical problems are very difficult for the law to answer. Regarding the concern for Slovenian language, we need to have a broader view, because I do not think that Slovenian expressions in science and terminology are at risk because they are already taking care of their own professional terminology. Perhaps more important is our common concern or carelessness towards the Slovenian language. From parents, kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, as well as societies. Because, as a colleague mentioned before me, young people are very much using online networks, social networks, new digital technologies and communication mainly in English, and a mix between Slovenian and English is already being created, which is already very well managed by young people, which means that the Slovenian language is functionally more superficially mastered. The data shows that they are reading less, and I think there is also one broad field where we must be concerned about culture and encouragement, that we are consistent and also accurate in the use of Slovenian language from kindergarten to primary school, and that this general concern or carelessness should also find a place in the care of Slovenian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thanks for saying that. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor. Prepare Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Kamal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, this implementation of Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar would not, in principle, respond because I believe that some effort has been made by the Ministry of Education to reach a fundamental consensus among the key stakeholders involved in this adoption process or in the preparation of this law. And the Minister has also shown a desire and interest to be able to know that this is Ithak, that this is the first debate, and we know that through this entire parliamentary procedure, it can also be complemented or corrected, and that we can harmonise it. [[…]] Of course, this law is not systematic. Of course, there are many excuses or, I don't know, many times we discuss the need to enact system laws. Of course it is, but this law is a positive move, a step in the right direction, and I think that in the first reading we could support it socially and then, as the SDS colleagues have suggested, maybe also have a broader discussion with key stakeholders. This bill introduces some of the solutions that have already been listed today, but perhaps I, too, would focus on this internationalisation, which is an important component of the study process, which you all have stressed today. Slovenia is a small country – I am very reluctant to use this – but Slovenia is few, so we have to open up, so we have to invite foreign professors to teach our students. The exchange of professors is really important. Exchange of students. Our students I think that through this study process, as colleague Tabakovic mentioned earlier, 80% of the literature is in English. [[...]] Through the study process we can also learn the language. I think of it as a positive thing. Otherwise, it is already possible in the present law that, with a sufficient number of foreign students, lectures in English can already be conducted. In short, I would like to reiterate once again that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education is a step in the right direction – I mean, it is mature for us to have another discussion on the working body or in another forum – and that it will bring a positive charge also in our higher education.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said by Mrs Novakova before, I wanted to remind those who may not have been paying attention that Italian and Hungarian are not foreign languages in Slovenia. So there wouldn't be any misunderstandings about it. We have schools, kindergartens, elementary and secondary schools with Italian language. But what we all find and also show research has recently greatly reduced interest in the Italian language right where the national community lives. This interest is growing elsewhere in Slovenia – in Ljubljana, in Goriška. This phenomenon is interesting in its own way. Because what is not known in public is that the Italian language is under pressure where we live. And as for the Slovenians in Italy, it happens the other way around. It is interesting that the conditions for our freed life where all rights are supposed to apply are exacerbated, while the situation of the Slovenians in Italy is improving, and this is markedly. Allow me to quote in this regard Mr Martin Lissiach, who is an intellectual, a Slovenian from Italy, and also a lecturer at the marketing university, and who, for the last time at the All-Slovenian meeting held here, said the following: "And in this case it is also important to emphasise that the image of the Slovenian national community in Italy is somewhat distorted in the eyes of the queen. For many imagine that ethnic, linguistic and political tensions are still very strong and that Slovenians in Italy are actually fighting fascists daily. Here it is clear: no one is exerting assimilation pressure on our community. We are not afraid to speak our language because times have changed. The young generation grew up without fear of being cursed by anyone who speaks Slovenian in public. In Italy, the majority-to-minority ratio has changed completely. We became interesting and build our confidence daily. The confidence of our community is also the key to the implementation and development of this group of people living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. And this one develops in relation to other people, most of them neighbors. The confident national community has much greater opportunities to continue to develop its culture. The result would therefore not only be positive for Slovenians in Italy, but also for the entire Slovenian cultural space. But let's, according to the words of Oton the Mayor, not only "drink her disease," but also "beautify her." I can list a lot of factors that are positive during this period. The first of all is the radical change in the relationship between Slovenians in Italy and the majority population. This is also evidenced by the results of the European LEX project funded by the Slovenian Cross-Border Cooperation Routes between 2011 and 2015. This programme was carried out together with the Italian Union, our organization, which I belong to. "Many are children from Italian families who are enrolled in Slovenian schools for a number of reasons, which, of course, makes us happy because our diversity has become interesting." In Slovenia, we do not have an effective teacher education mechanism to control Italian as a learning language; this moment does not exist for decades. Schools and kindergartens are forced to hire teachers and teachers who do not even master the Italian learning language. If this fact is taken into account what is normal, and it is that the learning of Slovenian language in schools with Italian learning language is as intense as it is in schools with Slovenian learning language, and they also use the same textbooks, then the effect of this system is simply assimilatory – already in the medium term, let alone in the long run. Mrs Novakova mentioned Trubar and Prešern. That seems very important to me. Trubar's books, mentioned by Mrs Novakova, were published by two large people who, in fact, contributed to the creation of the tissue of the present Europe in the mid-16th century, and these were Trubar and Pier Paolo Vergerio younger. Both were exiles, i.e. Ezula, and they set up an institute for religious issues and, of course, publishing. Vergerio was Italian. When Vergerio died, there were two men at his deathbed, his nephew Aurelio and Primoz Trubar. Mrs. Novakova mentioned Prešern. It came to pass that Prešeren and Chop, who became close friends after they had already met in Vienna, but later became close friends in Ljubljana, made a plan, agreed that with a poetic talent from Prešeren and the knowledge of the Chop they would prove – what Mrs Novakova said and what I said with the same words on one other occasion about Prešeren – that in Slovenian they would say everything that a person feels, understands and is able to express. But Prešeren chose a sample of Italian classical metrics. We all know he admired Petrarka, but Chop has been an expert on these issues and has been teaching Italian classical poetry since he was a boy since then. He spoke 16 languages, during which he perfectly controlled Italian and also made an advertisement for Alessandra Manzoni, which no one else knows. In the intellectual circles and connections that these people had throughout Europe, he also warmly recommended Manzonia, a kind of Josip Jurčič in the Italian novelism. So Prešeren chose that metric because it was close to him and it was easier in Slovenian through those samples he wrote. It's about this entanglement that enriches every culture. Europe is built from this; everything that is in force in Europe is just that. Slovenia and the Slovenian language are part of this tradition and it is necessary to continue this path because this fertilisation is what enriches each of the cultures involved in this fertilisation. This has been empirically evident for centuries. And we must all try as hard as we can to keep this going, and that we all have a future in this sense. This is our mission here and now. I too believe that – especially if certain programmes are in Slovenian and there will be the same programmes in English – this will pose no danger to anyone. Even today, not only Erasmus Aja, Trubar was the secretary of Bishop Bonoma in Trieste. Bonomo taught Erasmus to his priests, and they were contemporarys. So, then, what he taught to Erasmus almost simultaneously taught Bonomé in Trieste to his priests. Erasmus is a programme that has been enabling for decades, allowing for these exchanges among university students. Who used this instrument is poorer because they took advantage of it? Nobody. And now comenius is also being established, it is said, even at the level of secondary schools, this exchange will take place. Last time I visited the Institute "Joseph Stefan", three young Italian researchers who came to Ljubljana to "Joseph Stefan" were perfected a few months ago. At the same time, talented students from Slovenia go elsewhere to Italy, even to Trieste, to other European places or to America and elsewhere. This is the future. Deepening and spreading knowledge is the only wealth that will save us, which can only build a better tomorrow. I think all these instruments need to be understood and used and implemented. This marriage has these purposes, and, as has been said, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and then it will be the turn of the Government, Madam Minister. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. I think it should be pointed out once again, however, that the key problem of today's law or law that we have in the procedure is that we do not address the definition of the scope of public service in higher education. At the moment of determining the scope of public service in higher education, all of these debates, which are extremely motivated today, or the reasons why we are motivated by these debates, are overturned. The fact is, for Slovenians it has never been a problem whether we will succeed in a foreign market or in a foreign country. Wherever you go around the world, you'll meet a Slovenian. So we have no problem being present in the international space, and not least the Slovenian economy, which is export, is the one that provides us with 70% of our gross domestic product. But in all this history we have always developed, of course, the system of our education in the Slovenian language. And it has been proven that this has not been an obstacle to our progress. On the contrary, it was evidence that, in essence, as Slovenians, as a nation, we also know this knowledge, which we acquire through teaching in the Slovenian language, successfully upgrade also with the knowledge of foreign language and the presentation of this knowledge to others, not only in English, but also in other languages. So it was never an obstacle for Slovenia. However, the fact is that this law does not define this public interest in public education and opens the way for us to destroy what we have built throughout our history as a nation, just because of financial interests. On the one hand, I am pleased that this interpretation of the law makes it clear that we are going into this system too – that is, into a system to avoid the definition of what is public in higher education and, of course, compulsory funding from the state budget – because we have adopted a fiscal rule. At the moment when we adopted the fiscal rule, we adopted a game of international financial corporations that actually see nothing but profits, and they see no role of the nation as something to be respected, but how to get as much out of this nation as possible to accumulate this profit somewhere. And no one commands us, and this time we cannot refer to what is normal practice or common practice in laws in Slovenia: "This is what the European Commission tells us to do, I don't know, the European Central Bank, this is what the International Financial Fund tells us to do, so we have to write it down in law." Nobody tells us what extent of lectures and the implementation of the public programme in higher education we will have in Slovenia. We must agree on our own, and this is our exclusive competence. And at this point, when we can define the matter ourselves, will we cancel? And unfortunately, this marriage doesn't solve it. And that's the key problem. At the moment when we define what public service is in higher education, we will, of course, solve this problem. In addition, we must be aware that, despite all the changes in the concept, let's say what is the programme defined as public service – already in the law so far is replaced by the expression of programmes financed from the state budget. So we are consciously replacing the definition of what a public education programme is in higher education with the term of a programme financed from the state budget. So we reduce this awareness and the obligation to finance the programmes implemented in the Slovenian language. At the same time, when the possibility of conducting a study in a foreign language is also allowed in the entire programme set out in this law, this means that we are also introducing a system of a paid study. And at the time you're introducing a paying study system, of course, you're reducing the possibility of getting an education for those who don't have enough money to pay for such a study. And that is a key problem — whether we are reducing accessibility, restricting access to education, or maintaining at least that level, or expanding access to education. And Slovenia is known that only and only as long as we have a high level of education will we be successful. At a time when this will not happen, of course we will depend on others. The only system that has actually forced us to think like this and the debate we have today, even within the framework of the Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act, is a fiscal rule. Do we really not have the strength to provide more resources for education? Is this really so impossible to achieve in Slovenian politics? And it is certainly possible to calculate that with higher knowledge you achieve higher added value and that you can therefore balance public finances in this way. This is a line of minor resistance that will only have very serious consequences for us in the future if we follow this line of less fiscal resistance. At every step, when we meet, of course, the distribution of public funds in the field of education, culture, health, pension system, we always run into this fiscal rule. And this is completely unnecessary, because our economic system is significantly healthier than it has been shown, and our banks are significantly healthier than has been shown. Things are intertwined because of this financial aspect. And until we clearly look ourselves in the eye and say that we prefer not to spend money in tax havens, but to set aside into the education system, we will have such a problem that we have today. I understand this attempt to bring extra money into higher education institutions in a way to get students from abroad; a paying study; it's a cash inflow. But this does not mean that we have raised the level of knowledge of our Slovenian students. We are selling the services offered by lecturers at Slovenian higher education institutions. But I stress that this does not mean that we have taken a step further towards educating our students, on the contrary. Since this is a cost-effective study and since it is envisaged that this may even be a full foreign language lecture, it is likely that a large proportion of students in Slovenia will not be able to decide on this study, as defined or made possible under this law. I simply think that it would be significantly better to delete in this law those provisions that do not also resolve the Constitutional Court's decision, to adopt a law in that content that is actually good and necessary, in those chapters, which is also inconsistent with the Constitutional Court's decision, but it would be easier to delete and pursue a new law that will first define what is public in the higher education system. And from this comes the financing and also the use of the Slovenian language, everything is then more easily defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It would probably be much easier if all the nations spoke one language, but there would not be a debate about our language or foreign language, but something obviously happened, and we have the Slovenians' honour and pride to speak the Slovenian language. I must say that I am very pleased that the debate, both in the views and in the debate of Members, was very substantive, that we did not resort to problems in other areas within higher education, which are many, that we also talked about the content of these articles and that we opened up other articles that are necessary, except one segment, which I think is also very necessary in our opinion or in my opinion – the definition of public service. While I was thinking, I was aware that the first year of study began on October 1. And if we look at the law and the transitional and final provisions — and in view of today’s date of July 15 and that we are at first reading — I really wonder what we will lose if we reject the law today. It will not apply to the 2017/2018 study year anyway. We have a regulation. In my view, this regulation is still problematic because the law itself has run ahead of the law. And I think that by rejecting this law today, we would not be thinking about once getting a system law, but with this "no" today, we would be obliged by the Ministry to, for example, get a system law by 1 March 2017 and then have the opportunity by October to adopt all of these sub-laws, which are defined here. Because the longest time is for some submarital act six months to be done. Otherwise, personally, I have a lot of problems, given that I have been in Parliament for ten years – when we write in the law, "more detailed criteria", blah, blah, "take care of the Minister with sublegal acts". And then here we have a political debate — for, against, against, and otherwise — we are trying to cool down somehow. Most of the time, the coalition will, no matter what government it is, pushes its ideas more. But then, when we come to this—submarital acts—what happens is that officials get their power, which we MEPs don't sometimes realize, when maybe even those kindergartens that we want to break, get even more torn down or do things their own way, because, for example, the law says, "may, maybe gradually," in short, all of these indeterminates, and then officials with certain gardeners get the chance to keep these kindergartens, but not break them. So as little as possible, revered minister, by law. I believe that if we're already opening the laws, and if we have that much, let's write it in the law. We are already out of line, but if we are already flying to Parliament, how it is out of order, no one is talking about the various regulations and regulations, which are then those implementing acts, which are then a problem that comes up in practice. One thing that may not have been discussed today. I must say that this silence of the Student Organisation or the invitation to adopt this law has another story that we have already had on the committee, which is the Law on the Community of Students. And I'm sure the student organization used to, once with someone, pretend to be quiet here, because there it hopes that no law will be passed, and that the student organization will still have its blessing. And I'm not going to start by saying that the student organization that's supposed to take care of students' rights, I wrote it down in writing yesterday to make them hang if the students are up to 1. This year's 9th was completed with master's and doctoral assignments. So I really wonder whether this compulsory membership of the Student Organisation should be done as a voluntary or even more radical measure. Since I have been dealing with the Student Organisation for 10 years now, new and younger faces are always coming to these functions, but they have the same salaries, the same privileges, but they are not being talked about, and every Member within the National Assembly can say, "Ah, these Members." Student officials have almost the same salary as us. Who are they responsible for? Not even students and not even students' rights. So much for the intro. In short, once again, whether it is more logical, systematically, if you want, to reject this bill today, and force us, as a legislative branch of power, to give ourselves time to, for example, get a system law by the beginning of March. And here, despite the fact that I am from the SDS, I agree, because I know that some good drafts of the system laws were already in the drawer, but Minister Turk was doing something, especially Minister Pikalo was working on this segment and there were pretty good extensions to the systemic resolution of the whole area of higher education, and that the draft or two, three drafts were drawn out of the drawer and within a half-year or nine months of the office. Having been convinced that the coalition was in line with this law, we have already proposed in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary group a public presentation of opinions, and I am surprised – but at least to this government – that coalition-discoordinated laws are coming into the procedure that today the direct calls of certain Members to reject this law, as well as those of at least certain articles, are being deleted because they are either not exactly coordinated with the coalition or certain coalition partners, or, in particular, because of my view of the controversial funding of higher education, both under this law and on the basis of the regulation. There was a speech before I came back and ended up with a language about this quality of our higher education system. International evaluations are known, we are not among the best, but we are not the ones that foreigners would avoid and say, "Ah, Slovenia, a small country – I will not go there to study for a better view and a better knowledge that will give me an even better salary". I was very disturbed by the "debatable quality". Who is responsible here if we have a questionable quality within a university or within higher education institutions or even more specifically? And I'm not going to talk about the various supplements, but all these anomalies, but who's to blame. We have institutions that should make sure that these new higher education institutions have no doubt about quality. Because we have legislation, not just the ZVIS, but we have another institution that we should confirm in previous procedures; a questionable quality, a point, we no longer go through these stories. And yes, I'm the only one in this segment supporting this law. This is about accreditation and evaluation, which I know is a problem in practice. But when I've been talking to people coming from this sphere in recent weeks, they say that – just what I said before – this questionable quality and functioning of bypass systems – the question is whether both the Ministry and the NAKVIS will be able to identify and cut these bypasses. In short, because so far it's been coming in the area of higher education right inside accreditation and evaluation up to, sometimes I say, black holes, when for a few minutes some story went by, but a lot of things just, I don't know, because of the wrong cover story ended. So here too is an invitation not only to a deliberate legal dictatorship but also to the implementation of this accreditation and evaluation to a sufficient extent. Financing; if any draft budget goes in this direction to further support the financing of higher education, we will have no problem with this in the SDS Group. However, we have a problem, as I have already said in my position, something to postpone for the next 15 years is, as the car would say, "you don't have to take it for a technical checkup this year, because we're going to take it in three years" and even though we know we have a lot of anomaly inside the car that needs to be repaired. [[…]] And in 15 years these anomalies will accumulate so much that not even the percentage that GDP is expected to achieve to finance study activities will save Slovenian higher education space, whether we have all education exclusively in Slovenian language or in any foreign language. I might, given that the minister then has time to answer, with regard to this 24th article — health care. I've been talking to some of my younger colleagues here. I remember having a medical examination when I was in my first year, and I'm interested because it says in an explanation that less than 50% of the students attended, why so little, and on the other hand, or this article that says, "must attend" will be enough to achieve 100%, just some obligation? Because we all know that we have the Health and Health Insurance Act, and now we've brought one of the dictions from there into this law, which is not a problem. I think it's problematic not to do this until now, and will the legal dictatorship be a sufficient obligation to do so? Before I finish my language; we have to open up, absolutely. But the key question is whether the area of language is that segment within the higher education area, which is key or whether, I will say, the first moment on which our higher education space needs to be opened. I believe that there are many other instruments that would have made our higher education system more open. On the one hand, I believe that the Minister has problems – not only with a higher education union, which I even think opposes certain solutions in the law, but with certain other segments, which this space we all want to open together, push into some kind of kindergarten. I have to say, when I asked a little questions – and I also conclude here about the language – when I got the information or even the answer of someone who said, "But the language is a business opportunity," but I said, "stop, red light, and we're not going to talk here." I believe that knowledge must also be on the market, but I hope that we are all together aware that we are Members of the Slovenian Parliament and that our language must not be a business opportunity, but one of the national symbols of our country – in addition to the coat of arms, hymns and flags. And truly, if I ever hear that language is a business opportunity, then all that they fought for from Trubar, Prešern and others were listed, let's conclude. And all those arguments about 1945 and 1991, we're just finishing up because we don't deserve our country anyway. As far as the Slovenian language is concerned – and I will end it – I think such an eminence as Boris Pahor will say everything. I truly believe that the gentleman is secular and not political and probably "down hangs" whoever proposes; whether they are left, right, early, lower, ours, yours. But if such an eminence told us what it would do if this law were to be adopted, at least in such a form, it should give us at least an orange light before we finally press the red light in this law. And once again, during this time, I also looked at Article 8 of the current law and Article 1 of the bill, and it bothered me when I looked at the magnetogram when the minister said, "We first regulate the foreign language," at least so in the magnetogram. It is already regulated by law and is also implemented in practice. And let us be careful that the Slovenian language will not be the opening of higher education, but rather the purchase of higher education, especially in the event of the fact that I repeat it again, because I have observed which two colleges are primarily those who want to make this law and Article 1 of this law as a business opportunity. And, Your Honor, these are the people who have also removed some of the previous ministers of this government from their ministerial functions. And, ladies and gentlemen, given that we are working hard together, I really hope that this business opportunity will not be a step towards leaving your ministerial position under Article 1 of this Act. In short, one more time to consider whether to stop and give nine months of time for a system law, or at least I hope that the coalition Members will commit themselves to a mandatory public presentation of the opinions on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which she will be given the floor by the representative of the Government, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, if she wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Members! First of all, thank you for all the reflections, reflections and suggestions. We have not only listened carefully, but we have committed ourselves to additional activities, which would further define the proposed law and also link the objectives that we have adopted with this law and the proposed amendments to the law already in, I can say, the adoption of the mandate itself, as well as with the Government itself. This is to really enable higher education activities to develop, to develop qualitatively, to stabilise funding while also enabling them to open up to international space. But I stress, in a way and with concern not only to preserve, but mainly to develop the Slovenian language. As regards funding and in particular quality, I should directly respond to the last suggestion that, if this amendment is adopted, these decisions shall enter into force by 1. 1. 2017, because it is a financial year and it is an immediate exercise of stability in the area of financing. Why did we change the regulation this year? For good reasons; because for the first time in five years we financed this activity to a greater extent than the growth of gross domestic product. For reasons of increased growth, we had to draw up a new regulation in accordance with the rules and legislation. If we adopt the funding proposal as proposed in this amendment of the law, then we can start with 1. 1. 2017 we start to apply the funding criteria in particular, and this is what has also committed us to ensuring the quality, development and objectives we have set ourselves in the higher education field. In the same way, it is also possible for the quality sector, subject to the proposed amendments and the adoption of this amendment, to move immediately in 2017 to institutional accreditation and thus to ensure not only flexibility and opening up, but in particular the direction and development of institutions – not only through the procedures they now have to carry out, but mainly through the content, opening up this content, linking to the economy and greater flexibility of the labour market. That is why we have also dedicated a particular part of the amendment of the so-called law. seeing the employment and employment of students. In the area of language, we have committed ourselves and we are also continuing the discussion, dialogue. We have discussed this in a broader way, including with those — not only individuals but also stakeholders — who do not see the possibility of changing the existing law in any way. Let me say that we are applying these exceptions for the first time directly and explicitly in order not to make the Article 8 in force not only misunderstood but, above all, visible and applied for the purpose as you have warned, Mr Lisec, right now. In no way and never should the use of language be in any business domain. The use of language can only be in the domain of strengthening competences, but under the first and clear condition that, as the Constitution also requires, language as a learning language in higher education activities and the conduct of study processes in Slovenia. However, the exceptions will be agreed in a much more defined way with all stakeholders, with all the money. The Slovenians were the ones who had been preparing the basis for the amendment of this Article for two years. In fact, the fortune itself sees it differently. We have also seen this in the public discourse on this. Therefore, as a ministry, we will approach an open dialogue, not just that, together with the committee, as we have already announced, we will try to find a reasonable solution that will allow for the coexistence of both objectives: care, preservation, development of the Slovenian language as a professional and scientific language, and, on the other hand, opening and opening opportunities for international space. It's about the system law. This is already in preparation, will take into account and emerges from all the draft legislation that has been drafted, from all the analyses that have been carried out so far. A working group in the field of higher education, which is already scheduled for this time — even during the summer — to prepare the basic starting points, has already met. However, we will link these starting points to development and innovation activities so that we can address some common areas that need to be addressed jointly with unified starting points. It will not be easy to achieve them because we have not yet reached them in this space, but we understand and know that the whole research university space is one who wants to have clear arrangements on its own, how to proceed. Also in the framework of public service. However, in this proposed amendment, we allow the majority of the constitutional decision to be applied, but at the same time we allow this space to come to life in a comparable way, I can say, international and, of course, for the higher education and research council also an important space. However, most – as we have already said and highlighted with the facts – of higher education programmes is and will take place in the Slovenian language in order to ensure all objectives of inclusion and accessibility, as well as the development of quality on the whole of education verticals. However, the Ministry also stresses that it is important and necessary for us to see this vertical as a whole and that we are also trying to strengthen it in a way that those who enter higher education will understand, know and, of course, bring those competences and knowledge that can strengthen this higher education space. Thank you, in fact, for all the suggestions, for your reflection. At the Ministry we will also try to prepare everything we set ourselves in these holiday times, and this was the first step in systematic regulation of the area of higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to sign up. Please, Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank the Minister for her concluding words, and I must also respond to some debates. And here I am joining my colleague Battelli on cultural identity and scientific progress, indeed. And if something is sick, it is painfully certain that as a nation we too often cling to some of our own self - sufficients, and that we are burned too many times when someone shows us that there is, of course, some knowledge beyond our borders, including mental boundaries. And we just have to stop with some mental copra that says otherwise the head and mind beats, but the heart doesn't give us. I think we just have to stop making excuses like that. And I stress that the spirit of Slovenia, of course, cannot be jeopardized by foreign professors and foreign students. On the contrary. The more we join the international space, the more we will be able to create the spirit of Slovenia in reality, the more we will be able to pay attention to it, and the more quality we will be able to care for it. As it is said, I support the proposal of the novel, not only because of the internationalisation of universities, which, today, in this way, extends the possibility and the right to know in a way that I have not really been able to do when I have studied, but also because the amendment of the law extends those other students' rights that they have long rightly expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has his five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! I must say, I am pleased with today's debate. I expected her to go this way, actually, because that's been the case for the last few days. But there is something to know — that the existing law has been a long time since 1993, and that, in fact, this government or the current minister has decided to move the matter forward, because, of course, it is very good, and she is aware of the hard nuts that she has encountered. But in fact, she expected it, and somehow before that, she had been prescribing to negotiate and not rush to adopt this law. It will take time for him to mature, but I think it's time for us to put this law under the roof by the end of the year. Today there have been many talks about other things; about those that may not be so important. They're important, but it's not the weight of this marriage. At the outset, the Minister made it clear what this law is dealing with: to save funding, to give greater autonomy to universities, flexibility, greater employability of graduates, which is very important at this time that the common task is of greater quality, efficiency, greater responsibility. Of course, it points out that the Slovenian language remains the key language in this regard. He certainly didn't want to get away from it in any way. Of course, the minister stressed that the learning language is a priority. However, it will have to be examined in which programmes could also be taught in foreign languages. Of course, it is known that we already have these 18 programmes out of 900, which are somehow already being taught in a foreign language. And the Minister emphasises and I would like this to be written in a novel, where, of course, it is possible that it would be good, because it does give some difference. I was very happy today that, in fact, the opposition has touched things many times and that we have made history in those positive things — from Primož Trubar, Prešern. But what's interesting is that also the Chop is actually mentioned in the middle, which has mastered foreign languages and has given this weight. We must also be aware now that these foreign languages are also essential today to the dissemination of the knowledge that we really need today. And these students today certainly know this well, and I think that most students will not object to it in any way, because it is also written on their skin. Of course, there is still a need to speak about the part about the concerns about the reduction or the Slovenian language in order to change. And I think it's still time for us to have a public debate in the autumn, or then on the Joint Committees on Education and Culture, and who else could be invited to make these things as clear as possible. Since the fact is that this matter is very small, which is mentioned in the law, it causes a hot case. It's almost as if we were trying to change, what I know, an anthems, changing backs and so on. If we see these things correctly and if the debate is going in the right direction, then I think that this law will come to life at the right time and that it will be a good law. I must say that this law or amendment of this law is supported by me, and I will support it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 23rd item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 17th item of the agenda. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the amendment of the law on the application of rights from public funds after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Good. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr. Mate Tashner Vatovac, to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In part, I'll probably cover for myself what's been going on. The Law on the exercise of rights from public funds refers to rent subsidies for socially disadvantaged individuals and families entitled to a non-profit flat but cannot be granted by the municipality. With a novelty, these individuals would regain a subsidy for a non-profit part of the rent; it was that subsidy which the Government and the coalition abolished in February 2015 by accepting the so-called municipal Zujf. It is a subsidy whose termination was unconstitutional and illegal, as also found by the Constitutional Court. The novel would therefore return to all socially disadvantaged persons the rights they have been deprived of by another failed austerity measure of this government. The action that the Government does not know today is exactly how many people have fallen into an even more hopeless situation. According to the data we were able to track in the media, the numbers are moving all the way up to 5,000 900. So I'm failing 6,000 individuals and families because of the $2 million savings, the rent went up by about a third. Many of them were likely already owed debts in one year because of the suspension of this subsidy, and some were likely forced to move out or leave their homes. The proposed amendment would eliminate the anti-constitutional situation in its entirety, and would also ensure, by adopting the proposal before summer, that everyone entitled to it would receive the subsidy and that the State would also compensate them for the damage caused by the imposition of the anti-constitutional abolition of the subsidy. But the government and the coalition of responsibility for this obviously do not intend to take over with the excuse that the issue of the non-profit part of the lease will be resolved by another law and on a second occasion, so today we will vote on the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. For the Government and the Coalition, the proposal that the anti-constitution should be abolished in the ordinary Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, where the subsidy has been regulated since 2010 and in which all other rights and subsidies are also regulated, is in some way non-systematic. A solution to ensure that the social work centres issue subsidies to all beneficiaries without delay and on an official basis does not appear necessary. In order to allow the State to compensate all socially disadvantaged persons for the debts incurred as a result of the anti-constitutional austerity measure and neither does it. In the United Left, we can't agree to such arguments and excuses. The Government is the one who proposed the adoption of an anti-constitutional solution, and the National Assembly is the one who, by adopting the law, also implemented the anti-constitutional solution. We therefore have the possibility that the National Assembly will take responsibility for this. And with this proposal ahead of us, we can do it as soon as possible. If the National Assembly rejects the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, we can ensure the abolition of unconstitutionality and ensure that all beneficiaries of the subsidy are reimbursed without delay, and also ensure that the State reimburses them for the damage caused to them and thus allows them to settle the debts they have already accumulated in the past year. And in this place it is certainly necessary to point out that the adoption of the law that we have before us does not in any way interfere with the Government’s preparation of its solution. When and if it is prepared, the solution proposed in the United Left will simply cease to apply. We must not forget that we are talking about people for whom, in accordance with Article 78 of the Constitution, the State has not created the possibility of obtaining a suitable home. We are talking about people whose municipalities, despite the legal obligation to create housing conditions and care for the increase of the rentable social fund of non-profit housing, simply did not provide them. And by adopting the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, these socially weak individuals and their families will be overlooked for the third time by the National Assembly. I therefore suggest that colleagues and colleagues in the coalition reconsider which of the two buttons you will press today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Peter Pogačar, to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and to equal opportunities, to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u57	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Group of Members and Members, signed by Dr Mate T. Vatovci, submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. With the proposal for a law, the United Left Group proposes that the second sentence, which has been deleted from the Act on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities, be added to the third paragraph of Article 28. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that Article 28 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia did not comply and decided that, pending the elimination of a finding of non-conformity with the beneficiaries of a subsidy in commercial and household dwellings fulfilling the income and other conditions for the acquisition of a non-profit apartment, the subsidy to a recognised non-profit rent was also granted in the manner laid down for non-profit rent subsidies. In accordance with that constitutional decision, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must remove the finding of non-compliance within one year of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to clarify that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities informed all centres for social work of the content of this Decision immediately after having been informed of the decision of the Constitutional Court and suspended the implementation of the new decisions on the subsidy to market rent until the substantive harmonisation between the competent ministries and the upgrading of the information system. In view of the specificity of the situation, this situation will be taken into account as a change in all applicable entitlements to market rent subsidy and the social work centres will, on an official basis, issue new decisions with effect from 1 June 2016. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia explains that prior to the decision of the Constitutional Court in the process of drafting changes to housing legislation was in line with the Coalition Agreement and with the adopted Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space in cooperation with other departments, and which includes, inter alia, systemic changes in public rental policies to be implemented through the amendment of housing legislation. At the same time, the National Housing Programme 2015-2025 provides for the introduction of a so-called cost rent that will replace the current non-profit rent. The transition to the system of charging rent will be accompanied by the introduction of the apartment allowance. The currently in force fragmented system of subsidisation of non-profit market rent will be integrated into a single housing allowance designed to correct the payment capacity to cover the costs of renting the economically weakest part of the population. The ministry responsible for housing policy will draw up a single methodology for the calculation of the housing allowance and an appropriate amendment to the legislation. On the basis of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment to the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, since the above decision of the Constitutional Court has temporarily regulated the area of subsidisation of market rents. As also follows from the explanation of the Constitutional Court’s decision, in order to respect this decision, the area must be reviewed and regulated in its entirety. That's exactly what the government does with the above. The government thus explains that in the process of preparing legislation that will reorganise the area of rents, together with a new way of co-financing rents, is in both market and non-profit apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u58	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Janja Sluga, SMC Group, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. With the proposed amendment to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, the proposer seeks to achieve an equalisation of tenants in non-profit apartments and tenants in market apartments showing the same or similar income. Until the adoption of the Act on measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities adopted in this National Assembly in February 2015, which was covered by Article 28 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, tenants in market and household apartments were entitled to a subsidy of rent equal to the amount of the difference between the recognised market rent and the recognised non-profit rent to the recognised non-profit rent. In this way, the renters in non-profit apartments and tenants in market apartments, showing the same or similar income, were levelled. However, the Act on measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities abolished the right to a subsidy to recognised non-profit rent for tenants in market and household housing. At the same time as the introduction of the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law that we are considering today, the Constitutional Court of May, in a constitutional assessment procedure initiated at the request of the Ombudsman, decided that the current arrangements for the co-financing of rents in market and household housing were unconstitutional, and also provided for a way of implementing its decision in such a way as to eliminate a finding of non-conformity with the constitution of the beneficiary of the subsidy in commercial and household apartments fulfilling the income and other conditions for the acquisition of a non-profit apartment, it also recognises the subsidy to recognised non-profit rent in the manner laid down for the subsidies of non-profit rentals. This means that by rejecting the proposed law, citizens will not be in a worse position, since the Constitutional Court decision is directly enforceable. In doing so, we must point out that the currently in force fragmented scheme for subsidising non-profit and market rent must be merged into a single apartment allowance aimed at correcting the payment capacity to cover the costs of renting an economically weaker population. The area of housing policy and the co-financing of rents should be re-organized, in our view, through a revised concept and through the transition to public housing, to a cost rent and a housing allowance, which is also announced in the current National Housing Programme. We therefore consider it reasonable that the matter under consideration should be regulated in the Housing Law and not in the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, but also taking into account some of the comments made by the municipalities concerning in particular procedural provisions, in particular the need for a more transparent examination of the eligibility conditions and the possibility of regular remedies available to the municipalities. With regard to the abolition of the constitutionality established, we support a solution that will regulate the matter by the end of the year in accordance with the 2016 Government's normative work programme, as part of the amendment to the Housing Law. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we do not believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, welcome! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds seeks to equalise tenants in non-profit apartments and tenants in market apartments showing similar expenditure in the acquisition of rent subsidies. It wishes to establish a state of subsidisation of rents, as was the case before the entry into force of the Act on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities in 2015. At the time of the introduction of the law, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia had not yet issued a decision establishing the non-compliance of Article 28 of the current law with the Constitution and the decision came on 19 May 2016. The Constitutional Court proposed that the said non-constitutionality should be eliminated by amending the Housing Law within one year of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal. The area of subsidisation of rents should certainly be regulated, but it should be fully regulated. In doing so, account must be taken of both the constitutional decision and the financial situation of the municipalities, or at the same time to find or raise their average for a long time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that non-compliance with the Constitution must be regulated as soon as possible and not wait for the deadline of one year. However, we feel that it is reasonable to seek a solution in the Housing Law. When we vote on whether the law is suitable for further consideration, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, other Members! We have before us the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. The proposal addressed the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in great detail and adopted a decision on the inappropriateness of further consideration of the proposal. We will not oppose this proposal for a decision by the Committee in the Desus Group. The decision of the Constitutional Court is already directly addressing the problem which is the subject of the bill. The latter means that, pending the abolition of the finding of non-compliance with Article 28 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, beneficiaries of subsidies in market and household apartments fulfilling the income and other conditions for the acquisition of a non-profit apartment shall be granted the right to a recognised non-profit rent in the manner laid down for non-profit rent subsidies. On the basis of a constitutional decision, social work centres have to issue new decisions to beneficiaries on an official basis with effect from 1 June 2016. That is why we do not need the proposed law at this time. However, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that housing law should be the one to deal fully with housing problems. In the context of the general constitutional right to social security, subsidies are intended to ensure social security for those individuals who, because of their poor material situation, find it difficult to provide suitable housing for themselves. It is the duty of the State to establish a situation, to take measures and to pursue such a policy, in an appropriate and fair manner, to help the weakest of citizens and citizens. One such measure is an active housing policy within which the state and the municipalities provide non-profit housing. Unfortunately, non-profit housing is not enough right now. Therefore, the State and the municipalities should otherwise provide the poor with a roof over their heads. However, it is human rights, for which the congregations and the country are often undersensitive. In the Desus Group, we believe that action should be accelerated and more decisive measures taken in the area of housing policy should be taken, as, last but not least, an improvement in the financial situation in the country allows us more room for manoeuvre than at the time of savings. In the Desus Group we want and will insist that the programming guidelines for housing legislation will not be a dead letter on the resolution on the national housing programme for the period 2015-2025. The first step to this is already done. We are pleased to have agreed with the Ministry of the Environment and Space that the amendments to the Housing Law will be prepared this year, the part of the law that will regulate the leases fairly in the spirit of the Constitutional Decision. The proposal for the Housing Law is due to be discussed in the autumn. It will contain a change that will allow the gradual introduction of the apartment allowance, including a single methodology for the calculation of the allowance. The complete revision of housing legislation in accordance with the National Housing Programme adopted is expected to follow in the coming year. For that reason, the Desus Group agrees that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law, which is now before us on the proposal of the United Left, was put into the parliamentary procedure before the decision of the Constitutional Court and touches on subsidies to recognised non-profit rent. The law belongs to the Ministry of Labour, although the matter itself fits the Housing Act, and the government's unified opinion is that this area is also fully regulated there. What's this all about? Under the Act on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities, a line was drawn which provided for the right of a subsidy to recognised non-profit rent for those beneficiaries in market and household housing who fulfil the income and other conditions for obtaining a non-profit apartment, and they cannot obtain this because of lack of housing. In doing so, the Social Democrats point out that our Minister has opposed and pointed out the consequences in the process of adopting this solution, but has unfortunately not been successful. We also need to be dusted, all of us, because no one in the debate about the acceptance of this congregation of Zuyph, but no one has said anything about it, let alone opposed it. On the home working body, we have overwhelmingly supported the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We have done so for a reason because we believe that the provisional arrangement, which was directly enforced by the Constitutional Court by its decision, currently regulates things in an old and sufficient manner. The Constitutional Court, pending the removal of the finding of non-conformity, decided that the beneficiaries of the subsidy in commercial and household apartments that fulfil the income and other conditions for the acquisition of a non-profit apartment should also be granted a subsidy to a recognised non-profit rent in the manner laid down for non-profit rent subsidies. Our position as well as our coalition commitment is to set things up in an integrated manner and introduce a housing allowance. We're having a bad year, but we're sure that's enough to make it happen. In accordance with the National Housing Programme already adopted, the introduction of so-called cost rentals is envisaged to replace the current non-profit rent. In accordance with the Government's regulatory programme of work for 2016, the amendments to the Housing Law are envisaged, where we will regulate this. We believe that the way in which the area of review and regulation should be fully regulated is the way in which the decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, is addressed. We will therefore support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, chairman. The United Left concludes that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, of course we will not support it. And not only because it is our proposal, but also because there is no valid reason to adopt such a decision. The proposal for a law concerns the abolition of one of the reckless and solely austerity measures of this government and of the coalition. In February 2015, the municipality of Zujf, which abolished the subsidy to those socially disadvantaged individuals and families entitled to a non-profit flat, was adopted, but because the municipality cannot provide it, the apartment was still forced to be rented on the market. And with the suspension of the subsidy, it was ensured that they were still in the same position as those living in municipalities that could be provided by non-profit housing. Ever since the abolition, the ranks have warned that the abolition of the subsidy will bring the socially weakest into worse social distress. From the end, it was possible for the government to hear promises to find a solution. And since the government didn't have the promised solution, we prepared it in the United Left. A good week after the proposal was tabled in the legislative procedure, it turned out that the abolition of the subsidy was not only a reckless measure by the Government, but that the measure was also illegal and unconstitutional. However, despite the fact that this is a proposal that eliminates unconstitutionality and ensures that all socially disadvantaged beneficiaries of the subsidy will be reimbursed before the summer, and the damage caused by the State by the unconstitutional abolition will be reimbursed to them today, we will vote on the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. The coalition's argument is that the National Assembly for the Elimination of Anti-Constitution has one year of time and is not in a hurry. At that time, the government, as usual, will seek a different and, of course, more systematic solution in the Housing Law. These arguments, of course, do not drink water. The solution that we are proposing can be eliminated as soon as possible. This solution is also systemic, since the subsidy has been regulated since 2010 by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which also regulates all other rights and subsidies. There are even more reasons to oppose the proposed decision. For the first time in this bill, we can resolve a question to which the Government has not so far offered a clear answer: who and when will receive the cancelled subsidy. With the solution offered, social work centres would reimburse all beneficiaries prior to the summer and after the official duty. This avoids the confusion caused by government representatives by their statements. On one occasion, we hear that only those who ask for it again will receive it, on the other hand, that the social work centres have already begun to issue decisions, and on the third time that the instruction has not yet been given to them, but will be given to them in a short time. With our proposal, the State would assume responsibility for the illegal termination of the subsidy and would immediately ensure that it is re-acquired to all beneficiaries. Another problem that can only be solved by this proposal relates to the intermediate period when the socially disadvantaged individuals and families did not receive subsidies. At that time, debt was accumulated as a result of the abolition of subsidies; some were likely to be in a situation where they would have to leave. And this part, too, is the responsibility of the state to take care of. The proposal therefore imposes on the State the duty to enable the beneficiaries of the damage to repay the debts incurred and to prevent any debts. So we can save all of this before the summer. All we need to do is reject the proposed decision today and return the law to the committee responsible. The National Assembly has enacted an anti-constitutional measure and the National Assembly must take responsibility for it. We will therefore vote against the proposed decision in the United Left, and we expect the same from the coalition that has enacted the anti-constitutional measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The presentation of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u69	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the exercise of rights from public funds coincided with the decision of the Constitutional Court that Article 28 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is now in force in violation of the Constitution. The national assembly shall remove the non-compliance identified in the previous point within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The novelty proposed by colleagues from the United Left solves this discrepancy and eliminates the unconstitutional situation. This is precisely why Members of New Slovenia are surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not support the proposal of the law, since this is completely incomprehensible under the circumstances. It is clear that the Government is not in control of the situation and that the opposition parties are constantly assisting it with constructive proposals, which it is generally rejecting. Christian Democrats support a solution that reintroduces subsidies to recognised non-profit rents for beneficiaries of subsidies in market dwellings in a way that is fixed for non-profit rent subsidies, which was abolished by Zujf Municipality in 2015. This is a solution that eliminates violations of the principle of equality before the law. However, Christian Democrats point out that the cost of these subsidies must by no means fall on municipalities that are already overburdened and underfunded; this burden should be borne by the State. For this reason, we will vote in favour of the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Act on the Supplementation of the Act on the Health Care of Animals and Products and Substances, which comes into contact with animals, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed Mr Luke Mesec. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee to Mr Branko Zorman for further explanation of the draft decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u71	Dear Presidents, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues! The Health Committee is at its 14th session of 22. 6. 2016 as a parent working body considered the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Health Relevance of Food and Products and Substances in Contact with Food. It was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption by a group of Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 63rd meeting, on 3. 6. 2016 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee received: a proposal for a law of 26 as material for the meeting published on the website of the National Assembly. 5. 2016, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 7. 6. 2016, opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 21. 6. 2016 and opinion of the Council of State — Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons — of 20. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the course of the course of business, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Joint Left Group on Articles 1, 2 and 3 for a new Article 2a and the final provision on the title. On behalf of the applicants, a supplementary explanation was provided by Luka Mesec. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health Nina Pirnat. She pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagreed with and did not support the proposal and presented in more detail the content of the proposed amendments. The opinion was also given by the Legislative and Legal Service and by a representative of the State Council – the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons – which stressed that the Commission does not support the bill. In addition, the representative of the Department of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Safety presented his position on the draft law and stressed that the Administration agrees with the Government's opinion and proposes that the powers shared between the two ministries be divided between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the arrangements for a system law proposed by the Government. In the debate, the members of the Committee agreed that transmuscles constituted a serious risk factor for human health, which contributed significantly to the development of heart disease and resuscitation. Given that the Ministry is preparing a comprehensive regulation of the area and the allocation of powers, it is reasonable to wait for the system law to be submitted by the end of the year. Finally, the Health Committee adopted a decision stating that the proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Health Relevance of Food and Products and Substances in Contact with Food is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u72	In order to present my position on the proposal of the working body, I give it to the President of the Government, Mrs Sandri Tušar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u73	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the proposal of the law, which is justified by the following. The Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food is in most of the provisions inconsistent with European legislation and in certain parts also with national legislation. This is a law that has been adopted before Slovenia enters the European Union and requires a major overhaul. In addition, before its adoption, a law limiting transmature content and affecting the free movement of goods in the European Union should be notified to the European Commission. In the notification process, data should prove that trans-massage food consumption poses a risk to the health of our inhabitants and thus impose an exemption for the free movement of goods. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been working for several years at the highest level within the European Union to bring the issue of trans-muscles in food into a uniform order throughout the European area, through the legislative restriction on the content of trans-muscles in foodstuffs. A harmonised approach would be least restrictive in terms of free movement of goods within the EU. In December 2015, the European Commission issued a report on the food transmase content and general nutrition of the population of the Union, not accompanied by a legislative proposal. It follows that common solutions at EU level will not be so soon. The Ministry of Health is already carrying out activities to limit food trans fats, as it is aware of the importance of regulation in this area and also agrees with the proposaler that trans-muscles contribute significantly to the development of heart disease and blood vessels. This is why it supported the implementation of the national research project Transmascobe in food and its population introduction – implications for public health, which will provide us with accurate data on the content of transmasks in food in the Slovenian space. This data is necessary to assess the risk to human health due to the consumption of food containing transfats. With this data we will establish an exemption for the free movement of food. The fact that the issue is important also shows that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has classified the reduction of transmatures in foodstuffs as a strategic objective of the Resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025, adopted last year in the National Assembly. As I mentioned in the introduction, the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food is inconsistent with national and European legislation. Since its adoption in 2000, a number of European regulations have been adopted at EU level in the field of health or food safety, which have substantively affected this area. In 2009 and 2013, the Law on State Administration and Safe Food changed the powers of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and thus the exercise of official control over food. The law has not been adequately amended to date. The proposal for a law, as proposed by the proposer, relates only to the regulation of the content of trans fats in foodstuffs for the purpose of protecting human health, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not object to in substance, but once again, we stress that when adopting national rules affecting the free movement of food, it is necessary to take into account European legislation laying down the notification procedure in the European Commission prior to its adoption. On the basis of the first data from that study, a preliminary risk assessment for the health of the population due to the consumption of transfat food is expected to be prepared in the autumn. By the end of the year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will have drawn up a new proposal for a law that will, in addition to the regulation of transmatures, also eliminate these non-compliances with European and national legislation and take into account the notification process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! The Act on the Health Relevance of Food and Products and Substances in Contact with Food was adopted in 2000 and lays down the conditions to be met by food, food and product additives and substances that come into contact with food in order to be medically appropriate. The law also regulates health control over their production and transport in order to protect human health, to protect the interests of the consumer and to allow for smooth traffic in the internal market and with third countries. The aim of the proposed amendments to this Act is to limit the content of transfatal acids in the diet and consequently reduce the incidence of cardiovascular, cancer and other diseases directly linked to transfatal acid consumption. The proposal to amend the law follows the objectives of the Resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025 and thus constitutes a concrete measure to achieve the objectives of this resolution. The principle of public interest also follows access to quality and safe food for citizens and the principle of public benefit for citizens' health. In the long run, however, we can expect a direct reduction in disease and budgetary expenditure for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases, as well as a reduction in the cost of treating cancer. There is currently no regulation in Slovenia to prohibit or limit transfatty acid content in the diet. However, it has been scientifically proven that the use of industrially produced transfatal acids seriously harms health. The results of the most recent survey in 2015 showed that the availability of transfat food in Slovenia has increased significantly since 2012. Cookies and waffles were included in the study. These are mainly imported foods produced by outdated procedures and cheap raw materials. Following the presentation of this report, the Ministry of Health informed the European Commission that it will soon ban the sale of transfat acid foods throughout the European Union. Otherwise, legislation should be adopted to limit the content of transfatty acids in food products to Slovenia itself. In its reply, the Ministry emphasises that the substantive proposal for amendments does not conflict with the law, but to amend this law requires assessments, comparisons and analyses on the basis of which it will take a systematic approach to changing this area. But even earlier, of course, these assessments and analyses will pay dearly. However, it does not take into account the scientific evidence and the assessment of the World Health Organisation. We do not oppose the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party and consider it suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretary and everyone else. The majority of the DeSUS Group will support the decision adopted on the home working body that the proposal for the Act on Supplements to the Law on the Health Relevance of Food and Products and Substances in Contact with Food is not suitable for further consideration. According to our assessment, this is a content where we all agree on the necessity of imposing limits on the level of authorised transfatic acid content in the diet. Following this proposal, each food in a hundred grams of total fat content should contain a maximum of 2 grams of transfatic acid. These include fats, which are one of the most common causes of cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes and other diseases. However, we do not agree with the procedure to introduce these restrictions into Slovenian legislation. The proposer argues that we can deal with the adoption of this law and then regulate everything necessary with the European Union. The Ministry says the opposite. Last year, the National Assembly adopted a Resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025, which defined the reduction of transfat content in foodstuffs as one of the strategic objectives of the implementation of this Programme. In its opinion, this was also highlighted by the Ministry. At the same time, it is recalled that certain pre-conditions, such as the implementation of a health risk assessment on the basis of relevant data on the availability of trans-fatty acids in foodstuffs at national level, need to be met in order to draw up such legislation which will limit trans-fat content. The Ministry informed us that a national research project on food trans fat content and their introduction into the population and on the public health implications is already under way to produce this risk assessment. The partial results so far have shown that, on the basis of them, it will be appropriate to justify the imposition of restrictions on transmature content and thus ensure the successful implementation of the rule-notification procedure with the European Commission. If we did otherwise, this could mean to the European Commission that, without evidence, we are unduly interfering with the existing rules on free movement of goods, i.e. food within the European Union. The fact is that this is a sensitive area and we need to regulate it on the basis of appropriate grounds to determine the criteria for determining risks to human health. The common conclusion of all of us is that trans fats occur mainly in cheap food products, which is particularly worrying if we take into account the social picture of our society. This means that the social and economically weak populations are primarily exposed to these dangerous fats. We expect the Ministry to implement its forecast that the autumn new draft law, which will limit the content of transmatures in foodstuffs, will be put into the legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u78	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Respectable. Transmatures are extremely dangerous to health and are even prohibited in some countries. Unfortunately, they don't even have that mark with us. In Denmark, Austria, Hungary and elsewhere it is prohibited to sell foodstuffs where the quantity of transmasks exceeds a certain limit. Even in America, where the soft food industry is fast food, food growers will completely get rid of trans fat, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has established. Thus, since the end of 2003, sales of industrially processed oils and other fats and industrially processed food and food containing more than 2 % transfat in added fats have been banned in Denmark. Denmark recommends that other countries, as well as the EU, join it. And this is what the United Left proposal is supposed to follow, but unfortunately that is not the case. Such a proposal in practice could not live, as it will remain an empty letter on paper until we have taken all the necessary steps on this path. According to the Ministry of Health, national data on the availability of transmassembly in foodstuffs are needed and an assessment of the risk to public health will be made on the basis of these data, as a result of the notification procedure to the European Commission. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is high time for legislation in this area to change in Slovenia as well. Since we are part of the EU in which the free movement of goods and services is in effect, we must clearly show that trans fats are harmful to our health to the extent that we have to prohibit the sale of controversial articles. According to recent surveys, the trend in the availability of transmask products has doubled since 2012 in Slovenia. On Slovenian trade shelves there are more and more food with health harmful, dangerous transmatures. We must be aware that transfatty acids, which, inter alia, prolong the duration of use, are harmful to health. Blood cholesterol levels are rising, the risk of cardiovascular disease is increased. However, it is not possible to overlook the warnings given by doctors that five grams of transfatal acid per day is the same for the heart as five to ten cigarettes per day. So the call to amend the legislation is well-intentioned. Social Democrats are thus saying that this area needs to be addressed as a priority. We have also committed ourselves to the Resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity 2015-2025, to ban transmassembly in our legal order. In our firm belief, it is necessary to amend the legislation. Unfortunately, the way the United Left proposes does not solve the problem. We therefore appeal to the Ministry of Health to immediately carry out the procedures necessary for this area to be settled with us in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, chairman, and a nice greeting. Today, it has undoubtedly been demonstrated that transfatty acid consumption increases the levels of harmful cholesterol on one side and lowers the levels of beneficial cholesterol on the other. This promotes inflammatory processes associated with heart disease, diabetes, cancer and other chronic non-communicable diseases. Eating food containing transfats poses a tenfold higher risk for the development of cardiovascular diseases than for the consumption of saturated fatty acids. Transmuscles are particularly harmful in pregnancy. They adversely affect the fatty acid composition of the brain, interfere with the synthesis of essential fatty acids, and hinder neurological development. All of this is now scientifically proven facts to which no serious study contradicts. This is why more and more countries in the world and in the European Union are taking a legal ban or at least restricting the value of transmatures in human nutrition. In the United Left, we have proposed that, with a very small technical supplement to the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products, as well as the substances that come in contact with them, we also achieve a change that would affect public health in terms of transmassembly. Our proposal to supplement the law follows the guidelines and objectives of the National Reform Programme on nutrition and physical activity, and we have also received virtually unanimous support from the profession. We wanted to harmonise the law with the amendments with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as with the comments of the Government, which opposed the law because it wanted to carry out further research before it and carry out a notification procedure with the European Commission. In the United Left, we responded to follow the Latvian example, where they also first adopted a law that committed themselves to restricting transmatures in food, and then the government prepared all the regulations that we would like to have with us, that is to say including notification. This Regulation was then the one that went into notification to the European Union in all the necessary studies. The Latvian case confirms that there is no reason for a new law such as ours to be adopted. We have also changed the transitional deadlines, which are now long enough to complete the study already being produced – on the content of transfatty acids in our food – and to initiate the notification process. We have also extended the deadline within which both manufacturers and sellers of food products, although not on the one hand or on the other, should adapt their business, neither by traders nor by producers have we heard no objection to limiting transfatuation in food products. On the contrary. Domestic producers claim that the methods of production that lead to high levels of transfatty acids in food have already been abandoned in our country, while sellers say that it is not a problem for suppliers to require food to be obtained on shelves that conforms to the laws. In short, from a technical point of view and from an implementing point of view, there is absolutely no reason not to adopt this small amendment to the law we are proposing. The government says it intends to make a complete overhaul of this law. In this case, acceptance of our novel is neither restrictive nor prevent. Waiting for a government law means only that the transitional period is delayed and that, as a result, transfatimate products will continue to be harmful to public health on the shelves of commerce and for longer. If we adopt our amendment to the law, then it'll all start running now. The debate on the competent parental committee has shown that we all agree in the National Assembly that the content of trans-muscles should be limited; it only focuses on technical issues. There we offered all the solutions, and in the United Left we went against the government and prepared amendments to solve this problem, so opposition to our law by the coalition is nothing more than a matter of political prestige. We will, of course, vote against the conclusion that our law is not suitable for further consideration, but at the same time we call on all others, who are in favour of public health, to vote in the same way and thus to show that public health and the interest of citizens is above political supremacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u83	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we support the bill because we believe that the availability of transmase food has increased significantly in Slovenia. According to an assessment by the World Health Organisation, these pose a serious risk factor that contributes significantly to the development of cardiovascular diseases. Not a good week ago published a study that lasted more than 30 years, involving more than 120 thousand people who had responded to the questionnaire on nutrition, lifestyle and health for 32 years every two or four years, and was published in the medical journal JAMA Internal Medicine, to similar conclusions. The study draws conclusions on the beneficial effects of unsaturated fats, especially when replacing saturated and transfat. It has been confirmed that among people who have ingested more saturated fats and transfats, there is a higher mortality rate than among those who have consumed the same amount of calories with carbohydrates. Transfats, including products with partially hydrogenated oils such as margarine, have the worst health effect. The increase in transfat use by 2% increases the possibility of premature death by 16%, a 5% increase in intake of saturated fat increases the risk of death by 8%. You could say, "Tell me what you're eating, and I'll tell you who you are." In the food market, there is a high availability of high transfatty acid, which is generally cheaper, more accessible and comes from Eastern markets or Balkan countries, mainly due to outdated technologies and production processes. This diet is due to the level of poverty, which reigns not only among the unemployed but even the workers in Slovenia, forced by low incomes to buy the most vulnerable groups of the population. The bill could at least partially bring some European countries closer to limiting trans fat content in food products, as well as encourage the identification of foodstuffs that are the main sources of transmatures, and determine the introduction of fat in the general population and key population groups. In New Slovenia, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u85	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the ministries, other representatives present, colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food, our position. Since transfatty acids have proven negative effects, it is considered advisable to avoid them as much as possible or to consume them less than 1% in relation to the day-to-day energy needs for fats. The trend in the growth of these fats in foodstuffs can be attributed mainly to increased consumption of prepared foods in industrialised countries. In addition, we now know that the effects of transfat acid produced by the hydrogenation of plant oils are significantly more harmful than those naturally present in foodstuffs of animal origin. Therefore, the proposer proposes that the Food and Products Health Act as well as substances that come into contact with food limit the dietary transfatty and consequently reduce the incidence of cardiovascular, crustacean and other diseases. In the view of the Group, the United Left could be achieved by determining the maximum authorised quantity of transfatic acid content in foodstuffs — per 2 grams of 100 grams of the total fat content. However, the restriction would not apply to naturally present transfatty acids in food products of animal origin. Slovenia has been working for several years at the highest level within the European Union to regulate these acids in food in a uniform manner throughout the European space, in a similar way, by limiting the legislative content of this substance. This is not a matter of ignoring the impact on the Single Food Market, which is why a harmonised approach by all members is urgently needed to address this problem. This would be least restrictive in terms of free movement of goods within the EU. We believe from a legislative point of view that it is appropriate to seek a policy at national level, which does not mean that there is nothing we can do as a country ourselves. The Ministry of Health is aware of the seriousness of the problem and warns that this is a serious risk factor for human health. Thus came the Transmascobe project in food and its population introduction – implications for public health. This project will provide accurate data on transfatty acid content in food in the Slovenian space. The data of this research project are essential for assessing the risk to human health due to the consumption of food containing these fats. At the same time, the acquisition of such data is also a prerequisite for setting legal limits in this area. In addition, we were aware of the fact that the Food Safety Act had become obsolete in its consideration of the proposal on the home working body, since it was adopted before the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU. In the meantime, a number of regulations have been adopted in the field of safe food and official controls in this area. Since this law has not been properly updated since 2004 in past mandates, we agree that a comprehensive reform of the law in this area is necessary. And within this also regulate the field of transmashic acids in foods. For these reasons, we do not support the proposed additions to the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products, as well as the substances that come in contact with food in the modern Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE COLLECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF AUTHORITY AND COMMUNITY RIGHTS UNDER THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the Proposal for a Collective Governance Act, which brings or transposes into the Slovenian legal order the European Collective Governance Directive. Today, the area of collective governance is governed by the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which is inconsistent in many parts. The new law will regulate the area of collective governance in a comprehensive manner, separate from other copyright content, and release the process of urgently needed recasting copyright in the second half of this year. We are pursuing three objectives with the bill. First of all, greater involvement of the members of the collective organisation in taking key decisions of collective organisations. Under two, greater transparency in the functioning of collective organisations. And finally, more effective control over the functioning of collective organisations and users of works. When drafting the bill, as well as in the legislative process, we listened carefully to everyone. We have answered many of the questions in writing, many of the content comments and comments of a nomotechnical nature have been taken into account and are before you in the form of amendments. The stakeholders' responses were diverse, and I believe you've had them too. On the one hand, we have supporters who believe that the law represents an important step forward, support it, support the basic law and the basic purpose and objectives. On the other hand, we have opponents, mainly of the kind of musicians who, in my opinion, are strongly opposed to the proposal – mainly because of the threat of current privileges. Once again, I stress that, as proponents, we have made a special effort to understand the concerns of opponents of the law. Let me briefly list some solutions once again. The bill sets out a clear governance structure of collective organisations, regulates the right of rightholders to become members of a collective organisation, including to participate in the assembly and take key decisions, lays down rules for the distribution of copyright honoraries and the creation of dedicated funds for the dissemination of cultural and artistic creation in Slovenia, and regulates the issuance of multi-terrestrial licences for the online use of musical works, lays the groundwork for the introduction of a common account of collective organisations, and could also be listed. Quite a few solutions that we are bringing to Slovenia's legal order. The provisions on collective management have been given far the greatest attention in the bill. Once again, I would like to point out that we do not work in the area of compulsory collective governance, we do not bring about revolutionary changes, but we only intervene in it as much as was necessary and in our opinion is justified. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a clear personal note in this presentation. In my wider family, we also have two creators in the area of the proposed law. The first works closely with the radio, the second works on theatre stage and in front of film cameras. Not only because of them, but because of all the thousands of others who create the same and are repeatedly inadequately treated, I suggest that you support the law at second reading and thus open the way for better management and greater transparency of the business of Slovenian collective organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Mark Ferluga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Department of Economics team! So, the Committee on the Economy is at its 19th meeting and then at its 19th meeting. Six and 30. 6. Considered the above-mentioned proposal of the law as the parent working body. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the draft law. Proposals were submitted to the Committee for amendments to the SMC, Desus, SD Committee, on which the Committee voted and adopted them and are reflected in the report of the Committee. The Committee was also presented with a proposal for an amendment to the Committee of the NSI Group of Ambassadors to Article 70. The Committee also voted on this proposal for an amendment and adopted it and is set out in the report of the Committee. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained in an additional explanation that all the comments of the service had not been duly taken into account and that some of the proposed amendments were unconstitutional and their explanation was modest. As part of the discussion on the articles, she pointed out that despite the proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, the specific comments of the service to the individual article of the bill or to the proposed amendments remained. The Chair of the Committee on Culture presented the report of the Committee, which considered the draft law to be an interested working body. The Committee on Culture adopted the opinion that the draft law, of course, supports and proposes to the home working body to examine comments, suggestions from interested organisations and individuals made at the Committee's own meeting. The representative of the Council of State further clarified the opinion of the Council of State and explained that the Council of State does not support this law. In the debate, a number of representatives of collective organisations, rightholders and representatives of their associations on the proposed solutions expressed many conflicting opinions and highlighted a number of issues regarding the bill. Some members of the Committee considered that, given the large number of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed law was poorly prepared and opposed, in particular because of the numerous oppositions of various stakeholders from types of authors, collective organisations and various associations. On the other hand, other members and members of the Committee considered the proposed law to be good as it would allow for greater involvement of members of collective organisations and greater transparency in the functioning of collective organisations and increased control over their functioning. After the discussion, the Committee voted, as was said, on the proposals for amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD Committee amendments and on the proposal for the amendment of the NSI Group's committee and adopted them. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill and adopted it. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you, too. At its 19th meeting, the assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 14 May. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss it? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to hold a debate? Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. In the third paragraph, there is the possibility of a joint account of all collective organisations. But it says here, "Collective organization can issue a joint account to users." And as you know, in Slovenian legislation we always have a problem with these words "may" and "progress" and so on, meaning in practice that in fact none of this will happen. And if the coalition is serious about this law and using the common position, it will support our amendment, which deletes the word "may" and will be mandatory for collective organisations to agree on a common account. Otherwise, in our opinion, the law – and I will explain in my explanation why everything – is bad, especially due to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, which has not yet done its work and you have done just what is incompatible, and this is the joint cooperation of collective organisations. But if you really want to work together and participate in collective organisations, then you must also strongly want a common account and not be able to share an account. In short, this amendment will show exactly whether it is a lobbyist law by the Government, which is supported by a certain part of the coalition, or whether it is just a desire for systemic regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I ask, does anyone else want to discuss this article? I'm guessing yes. Mrs. Anita Kolesh. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like to respond to the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party and their proposal to Article 16 of the Law, which is to say that this amendment, which is in some way also linked to Article 79, is why I think we can treat them in some way together. Applicants believe that this recommendation or the desire to reach common services at the level of cultural organisations must now be binding, i.e. in law. That's what we're opposed to. Not because we would not want such a situation in the future in Slovenia. That's what we want. We think it is now giving the law some kind of legal framework for the establishment of this so-called joint administrative or technical accounting service, for example. However, the situation in Slovenia is such that if this decision were to be enforced – i.e. a legal, binding decision on the obligation of this service – there could be some extremely difficult situations. In fact, in accordance with Article 79, if this service is not established within 12 months, it can also be stopped collecting copyright fees, the claim of copyright fees ceases and, of course, the payment to the authors is terminated. I think that in these situations, which are in Slovenia in this market for the administration of copyright and related rights, the establishment of this service in one year is in fact completely impossible. I think we need to be sober and responsible enough not to inadvertently cut into the area of collective governance and risk some confusion, a bunch of unconscionable situations brought about by this provision, including court disputes and so on. I think we should give this marriage a chance first. There's a lot of things this law puts in place. We need to look for other options for real collective organisations to agree on each other. This, of course, as we have already said in the introduction, is what we want extremely, and we also want to see this common single position, which is actually the ultimate goal of these common administrative or some technical accounting services. As such, we support the objective, but it is not feasible, and therefore I propose that we do not accept this amendment. But we do have in mind a strong monitoring of this area, as well as monitoring the effects of this law, which will certainly lead to the authors having a bigger word. And if the authors have a bigger word, if the authors have more decision-making options, then they will soon realize that this joint service is a good and the right solution. That is why I think that one day in the future we will come up with this solution, which is now proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but not on the legal path, but on the way to an agreement. That is also the case in the world, it gives us clear knowledge of the legislation of other countries, where no explicit law provides for this. It is true, however, that some countries, including our neighbouring Croatia, already have the same solution that they have come to, as I said, with a common agreement, and I suppose so, or at least I hope that it will happen in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Kolesh. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u95	Dear predecessor! We are many first in Europe, in the world, and we are boasting about it. However, when we have a concrete proposal proposed by the opposition, it is not realistic. And, Your Honor, if this thing isn't real, then why do you even write the third paragraph of Article 16 where you write, "a collective organisation can issue a joint account to users" if you yourself say that this is not feasible? Even in six months, if given, it is not feasible, nor in twelve months is it feasible. In short, why write something in the law if the representatives of the government coalition themselves say it's not real? Moreover, it was said that we would be recklessly cutting into this system. Your Honor, this very law is proof of how rudely you are to change the law. From the existing Copyright and Related Rights Act, you took one chapter, collective management of copyright and related rights, i.e. the functioning of collective organisations, and put it into your law. And I've been listening to this law all along today and in the course of its adoption, "greater transparency", "more control", "more cooperation" than we've ever had. [[…]] Pretty solid. Not ideally, but solidly. But it wasn't a problem with the law, the problem was failure was the key or the key organizations. And I really don't want to be personal, but more judgments said, "The Office of the Republic of Slovenia has not done its job or made it its own way". But when we propose a single position, all of a sudden, reckless cuts, non-systemic issues, are unrealistic. The full implementation of this law is not realistic, is reckless and is non-systematic, respected! Already that "mosaic" we want to make a concrete and binding government, and this coalition does not have the courage to make the collective organisations that have been fighting so far even more controversial under this law. [[…]] [[…]] You're eliminating the possibility of establishing new collective organisations. In short, hold the monopoly. After the Slovenian Democratic Party comes along with a proposal to give the collective table of the collective organisation – we called an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, when we said, "Here, let's give collective organisations for the common table" – and this is suddenly a problem that is not resolutionable. And, once again, this whole law is non-executive and is not real, and that is why we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we wanted to make it a step closer to bringing collective organisations together. But with the non-support of this amendment, it actually shows that a lobbyist law is intended for two collective organisations, some organisations in the field of copyright and related rights and media legislation and certain main facilities or entities that live well at the expense of Slovenian authors and Slovenian performers, and Slovenian operators have nothing to do with it. And if we accepted this obligation of a single position, there would be lower costs for users and more authors would be given even easier control over collective organisations. But obviously, the coalition doesn't want to do that, and that's why we're adopting such a law as we're adopting, which will not be possible in practice, but even less confirmed by vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you. Interesting, lobbyist law. Comrade Tomaž Lisec, I can argue for the entire parliamentary group that every contact we have had with anyone concerned by this law has been reported by the KPK. Every contact, absolutely. You can also know that we got a lot of e-mails on this subject, a lot of calls, a lot of interest in this marriage. In the Member's Common SMC we have reported each contact as required by law, the KPK. Come in. My colleague explained to me why the words "may" at the common position could not be deleted. Because there is a risk that the joint service will not be established within 12 months. Then what? Then it'll be our fault that we made a bad marriage. We have set up that we can, and if the organisations agree, of course this position is possible. But a deal and consensus is needed. But not the Members here, but the collective organizations. Come in. Why do I personally feel that this marriage is essential and not bad? Because we all know that today the area of collective governance in Slovenia is poor. That's what I think we all agree on. The big problem is that there is no trust between authors, rights holders, between users and ultimately between countries. And that needs to be fixed. Several times there was a lot of criticism at the office itself, at URSIL. What kind of control can URSIL do if it requires documents and from, I don't know, 14 documents get 12 pages hidden? What kind of surveillance can we do here if we don't even get the paperwork if we don't get the relevant data? This is a poor control, but not because URSIL cannot do control, but because it does not have the right legislation. And today, with the confirmation of this law, and then I believe that also in September – even though we know that it is not an easy law – this control will be significantly better because collective organisations will be obliged to provide documents. Why do I believe this marriage is good? Because it will lay down conditions that will ensure a careful, safe, non-discriminatory and, above all, responsible management. This is what we do with this law. Let it be possible only briefly in my debate, so that we will no longer be able to respond, let me look at all these proposals that we have drawn up in the SMC and Desus Group. Article 10 provides that reporting on public implementation or on the use of phonograms is also provided for. We have then laid down in Article 33 that a collective organisation may allocate up to 10% of the collected copyrights for dedicated funds, but there is an additional condition that three quarters of the voting rights on this dedicated fund should be in agreement with this. We also agree with Article 70 of the NSI proposal, which speaks of collective organisations as having all the documents to be given to the competent authority. This was suggested by NSI, but we had to correct only the text or nomotechnically correct their text, and we fully agree with them. Next, in Article 75b, we proposed that the provisions should also apply in the event of voluntary termination. The other amendments, because there were quite a few of them, are mainly nomotechnic in nature. Finally, let me stress once again that in the area of collective governance, we all know that this area is bad, but not everything is bad. [[…]] Some collective organisations have made many important and positive moves in terms of, above all, awareness of the importance of intellectual property and the creation of judicial practice. Once again, I am convinced that a major step towards improving the situation certainly means the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Potočnik. I ask, does anyone else want to discuss Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS Group? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you. Another attempt to make this law at least a trifle enjoyable. Article 34 states: "The collecting organisation shall regularly, carefully and accurately allocate and pay the collected authors' fees to the authors in accordance with pre-defined rules on the sharing of the collected authors' fees." However, we have written these provisions more precisely. The sum of sumarum, however, is that collective organisations can use only a maximum of 20% of the revenue generated by the organisation on the basis of the payments received and 80% of the collective organisations have to make direct payments to the authors. In short, in this debate, when collective organisations accuse each other of who has gathered, who has divided, who has even been entitled to pay, what assets within the collective organisation are those rights that are supposed to be shared, to make effective. Let us look at other stakeholders – municipalities, countries We have cases where collective organisations retain more than 50% in each year of funding for their own operation. [[…]] 50%, respectable and respected! But it's not their money, it's their members' money, but under some pretense, according to what it says, "regularly, carefully and accurately allocates," they keep it to themselves. However, we want to see that it is legally provided that 80% of all the funds received by the collective organisation are allocated to the members. And if we really care about these authors, then I don't see a problem with anyone having a problem with supporting this amendment. For if we also want efficiency in the area of collection, control, and, above all, the division of a mass belonging to someone, it is right to distribute exactly what belongs to someone for action, and what belongs to those members who are in charge that the organization can even live and survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I ask, does anyone else want to discuss Article 34 and the amendment of the Group? Mrs. Anita Kolesh. Excuse me, excuse me, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I would also like to express my opinion about this article or amendment. Of course, the idea of limiting costs is not new, we have also discussed it a lot under this law, and I think we have adopted an appropriate solution, because exactly what Mr Lisec said is what the authors' decision is, how much share will they devote to any of the purposes, including for the costs of the collective organisation. Indeed, in the debates of smaller collective organisations, there was an extremely large number of comments and also the fear that these restrictions, but that the legal restrictions, would touch their resources to the extent that they would not work successfully for collective organisations. Even for that obligation of employment, we have then found that it is truly inappropriate and that we have also deleted it in further procedures of the law. Of course, in small collective organisations, it is very true that fixed costs of some of these are significantly disproportionate to the size of the income of large collective organisations, so the 20% limit may be a significant problem. Of course, the problem may also be that new collective organisations are coming and we do not know anywhere how the collective organisation will decide in this case or how it should be decided, since, however, at the initial costs, for example, fixed costs are also extremely high. At first, even we wanted to write this down in the statute, but in the discussions, in the proposals that we had with the various stakeholders, this matter then went to the assembly for purely objective reasons, which we very well understood. And I don't think we have to put it in our mouths here to lobby those who want to make a lot of money. This situation can be resolved in other ways, with control and with transparency, and this is, in fact, entirely possible to regulate. However, I would like to touch myself, although Mr Lisec has not mentioned this, because in this article there are still some corrections that you have made in the amendment, and I would like to mention them because I have to, given that I also think they are inadequate. In fact, the work that regulates unallocated authors’ fees is contrary to Article 35; you wrote that unallocated authors’ fees are kept in a special account for 5 years. It's three years. This is the period referred to in Article 35. I am particularly surprised that you have written this down because you have specifically warned us on the Committee on the Economy that we were not in compliance with the directive, and this has obviously escaped your amendment now. You also forgot about the directive, which states that the payment deadline for the authors' fees is nine months, that's what you just deleted. I think that we have not transposed the directive correctly again and again into our legal order, which is why it simply does not hold back. You are also requesting the annual report of URSIL; it is absolutely unnecessary because the amount of unallocated author fees is already part of the annex with explanations of the financial statements. So it's some kind of unnecessary provision under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anita Kolesh. Dr. Matić, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I comment a little on this proposal from SDS: of course, it should be pointed out that how much share will be earmarked for a collective organisation to be able to carry out those ongoing operations – I am talking about administrative technical or legal support – is, of course, proportionate to the extent of work and not to the extent of these revenues. Because in this case, we're comparing something that's uncomparable. If we have a collective that collects 15 million of this copyright money a year, then 20% would mean that they can spend 3 million just to exist and work, which is not the most logical thing. This is my personal opinion that it would probably be true to rely on the solutions that the law brings in the sense that each member of the collective organisation has the right to always and in any case require information on the purpose for which the money was spent. The solution is in transparency and I believe that all members of this collective organisation will have an interest in keeping the costs for the operation of this collective organisation at the lowest possible level, as this will, of course, also logically make the share remaining for distribution so much higher. However, in order to determine this by law now, there are many different situations where we have collectors who raise significantly less money than the case I mentioned earlier, and some would have trouble covering the costs of their operations, while others would have the opportunity to use this money for a purpose which is not the original mission of collective organisations. [[…]] It is, of course, that copyright grants the authors as much money as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you, too. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss Article 34? Mrs. Anita Kolesh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u105	I will answer because I thought that colleague Matić would mention another reason why this matter is very questionable and so on untransmitted into the law itself. In fact, if we accept the amendment of the coalition, so our amendment to Article 33 – this is a very important amendment, it came up with the initiative of authors who want the law to allow them to relatively easily determine the amount of funds in the dedicated funds – taking into account, for example, this idea of the allocation of 80% of the funds for authors, of course, the amendment becomes unfulfilled. And that's of great importance. This is essentially the amendment that we have put into the last act of this decision on the law because of the authors who have encouraged us to do something to promote cultural and artistic activity, creation. We just came close to them and proposed it in such a text as was put forward. However, this amendment, which was proposed by the SDS, would make such decision-making by members of collective organisations very difficult and in fact would also make it difficult to encourage through these dedicated funds, either for artistic activities or perhaps for some of the social corrections of some authors, which we know to be such a fund, such as a social fund, extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you, too. Anyone else? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Mrs Anita Kolesh and the SDS amendment, I apologize. Mrs. Anita Kolesh, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u107	I'll limit myself to the SDS amendment. This is because I must certainly address you, Members and Members of Parliament in some way, explaining why we are against this article or this amendment, which otherwise seems to be extremely attractive. This is a 50% discount for charity and humanitarian purposes. I could list a number of reasons, but I will limit myself to the fact that, first of all, it is a disproportionate intervention into exclusively copyright. The author of the collective organisation must decide on the authorisation to use his works. So in this way, their amendment or marriage would take part in their copyrighted fee, which is totally unacceptable. However, I can assure you that this kind of humanitarian objective, which has been given to this amendment here in the procedure, is essentially unnecessary, because the reduction of tariffs in such cases is the practice of our collective organisations, and as far as we are aware of it, there is really no problem at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u109	I will not read the amendment for members of the coalition who have already decided in the cane. But I will read for all those organisers of charity, humanitarian events that face this issue more than once. The seventh paragraph would be added, which reads: "For charity and humanitarian events, the tariff for the use of works of copyright of 50 % of the tariff on public events not of a charitable and humanitarian nature shall apply unless the organiser and the collective organisation agree on either the amount below that limit or the total exemption from payment." And now listen to what SMC Member said: 'game for a liked but disproportionate intervention', but concluded that 'it is an unnecessary intervention because it is already a practice'. First, the Member says how disproportionate it is that we cannot interfere with the functioning of collective organisations, but concludes that this is already the practice of collective organisations and organisers. I hope, honourable Members, if you are thinking about re-reading what you have said, but if you have received this reply from the Government and the Office, tell them to read what they said again. First you say, "attractive but disproportionate intervention," and then you say, "unnecessary because it's already a practice." If anyone understands you from the organizers of charities and events, which you tell them is a disproportionate intervention and also for collective organisations, this is supposed to be a disproportionate intervention, and in the end you say that it is such a practice and without a connection to writing it in. The beginning and the goal are not at the same end of your ideas. It is true that this law is completely inconsistent and inconsistent with all that this government coalition with the representatives of the ministry and the office at the head speaks, but it proves quite the contrary, proof that this law is intended for certain people and certain lobbying.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss this article? I'm guessing yes. Mrs. Marusha Skopac. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u111	I would just like to explain why Mrs Anita says this is a disproportionate intervention. A disproportionate intervention is because you want to make this legal. Today, the authors decide whether or not to give a discount or a collective organisation. It is disproportionate, however, for them to be prescribed by law. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u113	For two years you have been some in this House and I will once propose a law, "Slovenia is a Republic", and we will be able to debate whether we are or not. Your Honor! We are the legislative branch of the government. If we prescribe it, that's how collective organizations will have to do it. But if we don't, they're gonna do what they do now. Each one in his own way, crazy, out of control and without transparency. However, if we are not in our pants enough to accept a binding record or a binding decision, then, Your Honor, as soon as possible at the early elections, there will be a composition of the National Assembly, which will be in its pants so much that it will also accept a binding matter, not "may". If we adopt laws, what can happen, nothing will happen, or exactly what we fear most will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u114	Mrs. Anita Kolesh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u115	I am sorry that you were not in your pants enough to adopt this law and that there might be significantly fewer problems at that time than there are. That's why we're adopting this law. However, I would like to tell you that this disproportionate intervention is in fact your desire to reach out to the illegality of the situation, and I think you are acting unlawfully, because disproportionate means that you decide instead of the authors and the author you take the right to his copyrighted fee. They can decide for themselves this discount, to put it that way, but they can't take this marriage away from them. And that would probably be very inappropriate for us to accept, although I believe we Members can adopt any law. I would say only so much that I am already in my own law, I think in Article 18 it defines the possibilities for so. non-commercial use and that this possibility is also given by law to some extent, so that the authors themselves decide whether or not to do so. But as far as you've been following this law to some people, I'm going to say, even to the terms of marriage, what you've written is that you're canceling, how do you, like, tariff or I don't know, I mean, don't even separate the tariff or the refund or anything. That is said, in any case, this amendment is inappropriate for adoption. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u117	Forerunners first. The Directive was adopted, I think that in the first half of 2014 and the Janša government was no longer in 2014. We could have suggested anything, but it wouldn't have been accepted. I have before me a bill that we put into public debate on 30 June 2015. And what would happen? Just like all the laws proposed by the opposition. And once again, we are the legislative branch of power. If you can prescribe registration to engines for 25 cubic meters, we can also command collective organisations, what and how they will share and what they will give up. Now that I am listening to Ambassador Kolesh, I have the feeling that collective organisations are above the legislative branch of power. This, however, convinces me that this is another additional reason for collective organisations to have written this law in their own right, in the sense of, "we, collective organisations are the legislative branch of power, or we are the ruling coalition that will adopt this law according to our own measure".
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 45 and the amendment? No, no, no. I am putting to the debate Article 46 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 48 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you. But here I do come from at least 15 years of practice, which I have in organizing such and certain events and matters. And when we allow collective organisations to determine for themselves what and how they will collect and what their tariff will be, because this statute can be established, it has happened in practice what? When you, as an organizer, reported an event, either at a police station or an administrative unit, you wrote, "We expect so many and so many people," and everything else. Then you were so brave that you published the article, I don't know, for example, "At our concert in the organization of this and this society, 500 people gathered." "We had a world record, we went to the media, 18,000 people." And there's a collective organization, first one that says, "Great, you've had performers, tariffs times 18,000 visitors times that times 0.25 tariffs. There comes another collective organization that says, "Aha, while this ensemble with the works of art and the performer did not perform, there was music from the inn or from the organizer" and another collective organization again, "so many times 18 thousand times that many". And what do we want now? That a collective organisation must, since it is already necessary to announce to the collective organisation a list of works and everything else, that the collective organisation of certain data does not obtain from publicly accessible sub-items, but to make this effort on its own, not by the organizers, but by the operators, to make this effort to register in any way, or in person or via electronic mail, because we are only in 2016, and with the organisers who are known to give hand or email, "see, so many and so many people have been, such and such a tariff will be presented to you in the end". Because what's been going on so far? We got the logs, "at your event, our agent came in and estimated it to be 500 people." Fuck, there wasn't one. But if he was, he could be in his pants enough to come in and introduce himself. If there were 50 people at the event, we'd all know who that is. If there were 18,000 people at the event, one of the organizers would probably take as much as two minutes of time and say, "Dear Mr. SAZAS, IPF, AIPO and all the other organizations, it's nice that you came to visit us, tell us what the tariff will be, see how many people there are," and everything else. Thus, in a beautiful way, from the records of the police station, administrative units, or even from the media articles, the collective organization collects data, they agree on how they were at the event and then charge them. And I was there when one youth organization just wanted to brag a little bit, if you say, "we weren't 200, there were 500 of us" – two and a half times the amount they got because someone from one collective organization said, "oh, 500 people, times 500". Instead of writing that there were only 100 people at the event, they'd pay 5 times the bill. Such anomalies occur in practice. And here nothing goes on URSIL, although I'm very critical of it, but actually collective organizations use the work of sports, cultural, youthful, pensionist and I don't know what kind of organizers, get data and "tuf, hopes". And we had events where the authors, who were also performers, gave up all the copyright fees, and two collective organizations came in because the organizers bragged about how successful they were, and they got the bill. And it didn't help any "said display," no contract to cancel, nothing helped. They read in the media, 10th anniversary of society, 500 people, bill. That's what collective organisations do. And, if you really want transparency and control, it is only one minimum that collective organisations commit to do something if they already want to get money, but not to share it, at least in your opinion, with each other, not with the author and the contractor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are very concerned that collective organisations must do something, and that is why we have imposed on them in this law many things that have not yet been and could actually have been done to them, but within, say, the Copyright Act – even before the directive itself was introduced. So there's a lot to be done. These were also attempts and praiseworthy, but no one took things to the end. And now we really want to take these things to the end. Article 48, to read, you wrote the amendment: "The user shall not be charged the tariff unless the representative of the collective organisation has previously made a physical or electronic announcement or agreed on the form of cooperation." Let us hypothetically assume that this user decides not to make contact with the collective organisation. The organizer of the event simply ignores the collective organization, doesn't answer the phone, doesn't open the door when it comes in, I don't know, a representative of the collective organization, doesn't answer the email, what now? So in this case, this is how I read this article, so that the collective organisation cannot charge the compensation, the user organiser can use the quiet soul work. And where is that constitutionally protected right now? Where is the protection of the author's property, if someone can do so to him, so in a very simple way, when we now put it in this amendment, this right, this property right, this constitutional right simply steals it? So this power of the user, the organiser in this case is, of course, completely disproportionate. Simply then, everyone could ignore these contacts with the collective organisation, because of course it would lead to the end of the day that they would lose their copyright fees. And again, who is the one who draws the shortest? Those who have this property constitutional right, this right to their property, copyright. And here are the logs on the application, here's the stuff, I'll say, pretty much escaped. There is not so much problem in what the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party is now pointing out here. That's why this article can be very misused and somehow I think you've been making a little joke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u122	Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u123	No, Your Honor, we weren't joking. It's a practice that's happening. Abuses by collective organisations are taking place. And we want to protect the organizers of different segments. That's it, practice. And yes, if the contractor doesn't pay, he has a problem called responsibility. And if you were to change your whole sleep, you'd know exactly what you're talking about. But since only collective organizations are born to you without question as to what is copyright and what are related rights, of course you see the author as being a god. We do have criminal provisions. As president of a single company, once I don't think I sent the collective organization documents a week before the event, what did we get? We got a ticket. And if this system doesn't work, that side doesn't work, control doesn't work. So all the talk about transparency and the control that this law is supposed to introduce does not work, has not worked, and I am sure it will not work in the future. In short, we only wanted something: that collective organisations from chairs do not obtain data, but also do what they do, not that everything is on the part of the organizer to do everything and that the collective organisation, in the opinion of 90% of the organisers, gets its costs, which are then disproportionately shared among its members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 70 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Mr Uroš Prikl applied for the debate. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Although I have not listened to this debate from the outset, it seems to me that there is a dialogue between a coalition representative and a representative of the opposition. I would like to believe that the matter, Comrade Lisec, is well-intentioned and I believe it is well-intentioned on your part. But I find it difficult to understand that such criticism of this law is that everything is wrong, that the accusations, that in some way, those who support or support this law are being wronged, if I understand correctly. Of course, you all know that a lot of letters, a lot of e-mails came to our addresses, or those who support the law, as well as those who, of course, criticize. But in my opinion, this law is, of course, necessary. The law is needed from several elements. Why did I stop by on this article? Because this article specifically discusses this – or the amendment as well as, of course, the article – that the collective organisation must submit all information and documentation to the competent authority in full. If anyone asks me – and I do not want to break this amendment, of course, I will support it – I don’t think even the competent authority has to protect the information and documents provided in accordance with the rules, because it seems reasonable to me. Although there is likely to be no harm from more words, even more so can these data be protected or protected. I think – perhaps in a sentence, I will go a little bit wider than this amendment or this article – that the main point of this law is to increase the power, the influence of members, of all members, of all authors, that their involvement, their integration in governance and decision-making processes is as much as possible, that it is also, of course, greater control, but it is not just beauty now, and in the final stage also greater transparency. Among other things, this amendment speaks for it. That marriage is necessary, we have already heard from several debaters in the introductions. If the marriage is old, in some way already survive, I believe that there is a step forward in this legislation, that there is some added value. I don't want to think this marriage isn't bad. I don't want to think that this marriage is not bad, I want to think in this direction that this law is good to bring more order, more order. I'm not saying it's chaos. But that it is not the most orderly, and we probably all have to admit together, and that added value will be added for all stakeholders in these process of adopting this law. Of course, if it becomes clear, it will always be necessary to say that in practice something does not count. It's not gonna be the only marriage, it's not gonna be the only intervention in the law, it's just gonna get better. The objectives are certainly good, the interpretation of the Dasirno is a very specific area. [[…]] Those who know him in detail find him difficult to complete and valuable. But still. The arguments we heard, even at that night’s or very elaborate meetings of the mother’s working body, are convincing. As it is said, I will give this proposal of the law in the hope that the situation will be better, more efficient, more transparent, and more just for all participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss article 70 and the amendment? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 75b and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 76 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 77 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 77a and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 80 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 83 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 85 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u127	Yeah, just for a little while at the last article or at the last amendment. Dear Mr. Prikl, not everything is wrong with this law. It's huge. If you had the time and opportunity to read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, you were told everything. And what is still the most ironic – I think 64 articles or 65 out of 87 have been amended by the coalition or the government because the law was a disaster. And even more absurd was when we thought at the very meeting of the mother's working body that these amendments would be accepted, without justification, as today's amendments, and fortunately the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, who proved that either you were lying when you wrote that the amendments were adopted on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, or that you did not comply with them or that you did not understand the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service or that you did not want to understand it. And on this basis, today we have amendments to the coalition, which we will also vote on and there was no wish on the part of the coalition to explain these amendments at all. And I'll be honest, and I haven't even examined them, except very quickly; because I don't believe the whole law, I don't believe these amendments either. Despite the fact that we have repeatedly told the SDS representatives at the committee itself that there are good extensions, but there are many more problems that this law does not solve or deepens, especially the functioning and cooperation of collective organisations that you do not want to listen to. And that we have one crucial moment in which this law is not good — because you have taken from the Law on Copyright and Relative Rights the most insurmountable part and are saving it. While I believe that the remaining chapters in the existing Copyright and Related Rights Act would probably be harmonised between all collective organisations within eight hours because they have the same concerns. And you will not believe, the vast majority of collective organisations agree with our amendments. I didn't mean to say that before. This is about 20% and 80%; yes, maybe a smaller collective organization would have a problem, but it was said, "so we would have tried somehow if the legislative branch of power had prescribed this for us to arrange it." When we first proposed a single position – of all collective organizations shouting and screaming, especially from one, I will dare say the biggest collective organisation. After three months, they said, "Look, otherwise it's our know-how, but we'll try somehow, but if the other side is up to it, we'll adapt," and the other side said, "if the first page adjusts, we will too." That is why we have also proposed those amendments on the common position. Because I can, I'm sure nothing will happen in the next six months, not in the next 12 months. The question is, when will we get a new amendment to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which is even more urgently needed by systemic arrangements, rather than talking about monitoring the transparency of the participation of members in the management of collective organisations, if our system is failing in practice? I have the hope that perhaps this whole discussion of someone at the Ministry has encouraged the office to look more closely at collective organisations. But believe me, if collective organisations could use the current system, they will continue to use it, no matter what we write about control, transparency. And what I support most in this law is criminal provisions, which were initially for the user only, but not for collective organisations. And I say it is also right for collective organisations to be charged with fines. But of course I believe that URSIL will be filled with work when collective organisations are fighting with each other and with users, who is right, who is wrong, who will give and who will take it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I also conclude the debate with this. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 23rd item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on urgent systemic and structural measures for the new development agenda of the economy and the creation of new jobs, which is key to the welfare and sustainability of public finances. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. The proposal for a recommendation was made at its 19th meeting, on 29. 6. 2016 and 30. 6. 2016 treated the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. As the Committee of Parts of the Proposal did not adopt the recommendation after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the meeting of the working body. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Chairman. In short, I would like to present the position of the Desus Group on the recommendation. Not so long ago, at a special extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we also addressed the opposition proposal on recommendations on how this Government should act in the planning of the budget and in the management of public finances. Eyewitnesses flew much wider and included almost all areas. The repeated effort of the proposer to negatively expose every word, every sentence, every segment of the coalition contract, but proved to be a failure at that time. The same or similar thing is happening with regard to support for today's recommendation to the Government, where the treatment has already stopped at, as the president has already said, the parent working body. It is an attempt to criticise the government with this difference that the recommendations proposed are a little bit more inclined this time on the economy, the economy. So for the record, the government has done nothing so far. And it won't hold. The proponents of their preferred ideas for better action also promote separate legislative proposals for each area, for each sector's legislation, which we have been witnessing for quite some time. In our parliamentary group, we have repeatedly reiterated our firm view that any reckless, premature, hand-raising intervention in the current system of paying social security contributions is unacceptable, as it could also raise questions about the sustainability of both pension and health bills. It is therefore not only a huge financial outflow, but an intervention in the quality and extent of the rights of the debtors. A comprehensive tax reform, however we understand it, is a project which, in our view, for each planned measure must also specify exactly the replacement source of that income, namely the financial one that falls out or defines the so-called anti-measure. Without this, we can certainly expect severe and irreparable financial consequences for the country, and consequently – which is of course most important – for the social status of the individual, which is, of course, even more critical. Applicants as an alternative source propose the introduction of a property tax, which has already been dealt with in the past. In the Desus Group, we are in principle in agreement with this, but we note that this is far from enough. The burden of labour costs also does not mean that employees will automatically be more productive and, more importantly, more satisfied in their jobs. For example, if we put in place a different arrangement for the taxation of Christmas, this does not mean that it will be paid by every company, but it would be nice to do so. It will also be necessary to change the thinking of management, the thinking of the superiors on the impact of each measure on increasing the involvement of their colleagues, their employees and, of course, the company's performance. While the government is in the stage of intensive preparation of new measures, or in particular in the field of tax legislation or tax burden restructuring, and agreements, coordination shows good; we will also maintain that highest, 50% tax rate, although there were some tendencies to reduce, of course, and thus contribute to exemptions for the richest. The economic measures, if I conclude slowly, must go exclusively in the direction of preserving existing jobs and maintaining new jobs. If we provide the conditions in the country in a way that everyone has the opportunity to prove and prove themselves in the labour market and to receive a fair and deserved payment, then we would not need so much time and energy to create measures to address their social situation. The solution is not only in the country’s export growth, although this is mainly the case, which increased to more than 5% in the first quarter. The decline in investment and the stagnation of private consumption as key factors in strengthening the economy are a source of concern. Colleagues and colleagues, for us in the DeSUS Group is the most worrying information that the number of working older population will double by 2060. As a result, negative projections are also expected for ageing expenditure, such as pensions, health care and long-term care, which will increase from 19 to more than a quarter. And it is here that we draw attention to the work that should have been done far in the past, namely the establishment of a demographic reserve fund. It is only in this way that we can ensure that, despite the fiscal efforts of the country to achieve the fiscal balance of the rights of the current and the rights of future pensioners – especially the new generation, the generations that are coming – remain just and permanent. All of this, colleagues and colleagues, is the reason that we will reject the proposed reports in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. The recommendations proposed refer to the requirements of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In the United Left, of course, we disagree with their guidelines because they are contrary to our social and development agenda. At our level of development, the country cannot justify development at low taxes, since such a policy favours mainly technology-intensive sectors. These sectors, which cannot be social development generators, are already too large in Slovenia. This is reflected in two key figures: first, despite the crisis, the number of espies increased by almost a quarter from April 2008 to April this year, and secondly, according to recent data, large companies have created 2.6 billion euro surpluses in exchange for foreign businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises 3.7 billion deficits. While such an economic base is sufficient to maintain the current standard, it is increasingly less people. If we are to achieve a breakthrough, we must stop the privatisation and poverty of the public good. Fiscal consolidation should be slowed down and public revenues increased and supplementary health insurance should be abolished and replaced by a solidarity public contribution. We need to increase taxes on capital revenues and assets of greater value. This will also be the basis for the implementation of essential infrastructure projects such as the second track. At the same time, an ever-increasing subjugation of the global capital economy must be avoided. We must therefore reject agreements such as TTIP and Cet; these agreements will affect, in particular, industries such as pharmaceuticals, which are crucial to our development and our standard. In the United Left, we don't fall for the lower workload passwords. The brain drain is not due to high taxes, but to the fact that there are fewer and fewer companies in Slovenia that need highly qualified personnel. The ever-increasing surplus in the external exchange and the balance of payments, which is approaching 8% on an annual basis, shows that our economy is highly competitive at costs. Therefore, tax reforms, as proposed by the coalition this week, are pointless, but above all they are not fair. They are a means to channel public funds into private pockets, not into the pockets of all citizens, but those who already have the highest wages. With the new income scale proposed by the coalition, the minority – only 7.3% of those with the highest wages – would gain as much as €56 million per year. Workers with wages slightly above the minimum would receive only 5 million by raising the overall relief proposed. And that is the political essence of this reform: an additional 56 million for 7.3% of the best paid in this country and 5 million for those who are already at an existing minimum and practically without assets. This is a so-singed unloading so-called. upper middle class. At the same time, the budget will lose 40 million a year at the time of the biggest consolidation, about as much as it would cost us to finance the second track through public funds. The government, which cannot provide 40 million for public infrastructure and which has so much to say at the expense of its employees in Luka Koper, will therefore peacefully give up 40 million in favour of 7.3% of the best paid population in the country. All of this is even more so with the proposals of employers' associations and New Slovenia, which we therefore completely reject.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u133	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. You're repairing the damaged boat in silence, repairing it when there's no bigger storm or storm. And if ever, today is the moment; at least the government coalition claims that Slovenia is on the right track and that we have economic growth, that everything is in the best order. And if ever, it is precisely today that we need to adapt our frameworks, our systems to the new circumstances of the world and, finally, the demographic trends in Slovenia. Slovenia is old; in the next 10 years there will be as many as 100,000 people in this country who will be over 60 years old, which means that the pressure on health, pension and other state treasury will increase dramatically. Therefore, according to our assessment, it should be the fundamental task of this Parliament to do everything for new jobs. What do we need to create more jobs in this country? According to our assessment, first an appropriate education system. What's that? One who will produce young people and educate young people for the professions that this country actually needs, rather than force young people into some general education in a direction that the country cannot do much to help itself. And that, however, this education system will be more focused on quality rather than quantity. That the purpose of our educational system will not be to compete in the memory of as much data as possible, but, above all, in understanding things. And in this direction we imagine that the educational system needs to be changed in order to produce young people who will also be useful for Slovenia. New jobs also require effective administration, the public sector; an administration that will primarily help citizens to put their ideas into practice as soon as possible, so that they can sell their ideas as soon as possible, not that our state bureaucracy will be the first obstacle to the realization of their ideas. And for a more efficient administration, procedures need to be simplified, standardisation in a number of areas should be reduced and future investments should be made particularly easier to place facilities in space. In addition to these two, i.e. an adequate education system, effective administrations are also important for new jobs. In a better business framework, however, the functioning of the rule of law is crucial, which in other words means respect for the rules that all are subject to the same rules of the game, that unfair entrepreneurs who cheat and do harm to the entire business environment are excluded from the game as soon as possible and that it also prevents them from playing the system further. Taxes are also important in a better business environment. It has been said several times that if we compare our taxes with taxes in other countries in these three different categories – these are in real estate, capital and labour – we can find that property and capital in Slovenia are competitively taxed if I can use this term, while work is highly uncompetitive, meaning that work in Slovenia is overtaxed. Domestic consumption needs to be increased in order to start up the economy. And we're back on the job tax. And domestic consumption cannot be increased differently than by keeping people in their pockets. Because only if people have more in their pockets will they be able to spend more when they spend more, companies will sell more and if they sell more, they will be able to employ more. And that's the circle we have to look for. Therefore, it seems to us in New Slovenia that it is unfortunate that the government coalition has rejected the recommendations that the Government is making or recommending that it go towards repairing our systems in a way that would provide more jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Welcome from the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues! I will present my position on the proposal for a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on urgent systemic and structural measures for a new economic growth and job creation. Prior to these recommendations, the Government has identified, identified for individual measures and also referred the definition to the National Assembly. It found that some initiatives had already been implemented, others in implementation. In some cases, however, it has decided that no changes are necessary at this time. In addition, the individual actions of the Ministry of Finance are well defined in the National Reform Programme, which has already been presented in the National Assembly and includes all the measures that are taken in the New Slovenia Group in their recommendations, so we do not see any real reason for further recommendations. Thus, in this financial perspective, for example, 80 million have been provided for internationalisation in order to strengthen the skills of medium- and small-sized enterprises. This is about companies that have a lot of potential for growth, development, job creation. This year, the Ministry of Economy with SMEs will systematically ensure that new administrative burdens do not arise, as we will weigh the impact of all new legislative proposals on the economy. The new Hostages Act will allow all accommodation facilities to be covered in one place. Thus, the hosts, farmers and paralegals will now send the same information that they have communicated to at least four different institutions, electronically, of course, to one place. In the context of the renewal of the VEM network, companies will have information on access to financial resources while at the same time providing a single national point for foreign investors. The project to renovate regulated professions is continuing. However, in order to remove administrative obstacles, the new Tax Procedure Act – the first package in 2014, the second package 2015 and the third package – was adopted from the Ministry of Finance’s Department, and public treatment was completed at this time. There are also a number of other VAT rules, customs enforcement, excise and cadastral revenues. There is a public debate on tax restructuring, where we will unload both the middle and lower levels of employees with the new income scale. Rewarding business performance will be more tax-friendly. Thus, for the first time since 2010, the Republic of Slovenia has fewer than 100,000 unemployed persons. We have 10,000 more employees. We have achieved economic and political stability. Economic growth is also continuing this year. Exports are growing. We have gained six cities on the competitiveness scale, for the first time since the crisis. We are among the ten safest countries in the world. We also believe that we are on the right track. It should be stressed that we are pursuing similar objectives, as the proposalr points out. It is always so that there can be more ways to achieve similar goals. We in the SMC are choosing our path, which we believe is the right one to bring Slovenia and its people a good life in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group as the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, chairman. The economy should be the backbone of everything; the well-functioning economy depends on how much money we have in the budget and the well-functioning economy depends on what social state we can afford. The economy does not expect subsidies and aid but expects a favourable support environment in which it can function normally, it expects an environment in which it can operate in a competitive and innovative manner. The economy expects financial and administrative burdens. Financial burdens in the form of lower taxes and contributions, in particular in the area of labour costs, and administrative burdens in the area of reducing the time limits for obtaining the necessary permits and, of course, without unnecessary red tape. Instead, however, the current government prefers to deal with additional burdens such as tax bills, fixing value added tax to 22%, raising taxes on insurance and financial services, preparing a real estate tax, talking about a petrol cent and so on. You work in a way that punish productive employees and punish well-functioning businesses. On the other hand, both the Government and the coalition Members would like to commend themselves with existing economic growth. Economic growth, which is largely due to successful work of exporters. And also, according to the forecast in the coming years, it will be. And that is why it would be right to take the warnings and proposals of the economy into account as much as possible. In particular, the economy draws attention to non-competitive employment, high taxes, the need to reform the labour market, the regulation of the area of education, which must in particular follow the needs of the economy, and, of course, unnecessary red tape. A proposal for recommendations to the Government on urgent systemic and structural measures for the new development of the economy and the creation of new jobs contains, in particular, the initiatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, some of which include the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. We agree with most of the content, of course. However, we have a key point in the preparation of the content in the real estate tax, which we do not support in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, it is important to bear in mind that Slovenia can only be as strong as its economy and that in the future it is primarily important to listen to those who are actually job creators, and this is what I am talking about in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u138	You, too. Colleagues and colleagues, we are done with the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure for the proposal for a recommendation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.40 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u139	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u140	We will not support this law in New Slovenia. However, if it is accepted in the first reading, we expect amendments that we will also table or expect amendments to the coalition precisely because we believe that Slovenians must be very protective of their language and that it is not permissible for foreign languages to be taught to Slovenian students for Slovenian tax money at the higher level. In doing so, we are not reluctant to have foreign professors teach in Slovenian universities, but we must be very careful when using foreign languages in universities, because we can do great harm to Slovenian. And since this particular area is not well regulated in this law, we cannot support the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u141	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u142	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal that the novel is suitable for further consideration because the novel makes it possible to finance higher education more stable, expands the democratisation of universities, also strengthens the conditions for the establishment of higher education institutions, expands the rights of students concerned with healthcare, and extends their status in the transition from the first to the second stage of the Bologna study, as it allows co-financing of doctoral studies. And also with the knowledge that it is necessary to take care of the development of the Slovenian scientific language, but we stress that we must be aware at the same time very strongly that self-sufficiency cannot certainly be a condition for success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u143	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. So in the Desus Group, we have already announced in our presentation that we will support the law in the first reading. Although the coalition law is not harmonised, we have agreed that with the amendments that we will prepare for the second reading, the law should be harmonised so that it can solve all that we have done in order to change the law. Above all, what Mr Tabakovic has already said is also about this and Ludmila Novak. [[…]] This is the use of the language of higher education, where there are dilemmas as to whether there would be abuse or problems in the use of foreign language in lectures, and that is not supported by all in the form that is now being prepared. Then there is also disagreement with the decision of the Constitutional Court. In short, like I said, we're going to support the marriage in Desus most of the time. We're not all for this, but 10 votes will be in favour of a change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u145	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. We cannot support or support the new Higher Education Act in the United Left for the same reasons as we oppose the entire policy of this Government in the area of higher education. It brings more erosion to the public and even more commercialisation. But we simply cannot allow this as socialists. First of all, this is the point of internationalisation. Of course, higher education should be open, but science does not refer to national borders or national language boundaries. But in this case, instead of raising quality, we can expect more intrusions of commercial paying practices into our higher education space, which are hidden for this maximum of internationalisation. Of course, our students will soon be drawn. Next, funding. The novelty provides for funding in 1% of the gross social product to go to higher education. Unfortunately, this GDP is limited to real GDP growth, which means that any inflation can simply absorb the required amount of funding for higher education, and this is some highly "punitive" formula. Especially if we know that the novel foresees an increase to 1% of GDP over the next 15 years. The National Higher Education Programme contains a different number – 2% of GDP by 2020 – and this is something that the Government should be following, not for hair-attracted funding formulas. This law does not contain some of the pressing problems in our higher education space, such as the definition of public service, such as the distinction between public and private, and, of course, then in this fog, in this swamp of ambiguity, things such as the unjustified additions can now happen to former Finance Minister Dušan Marble, but of course it leads to the resignation of First Minister of Education in this government Stanka Setnikar Cankar. In short, an undefined separation between private and public can very well lead to the enrichment of the academic elite, i.e. academic mandarins. At one point, however, this novel is doing something good or at least stepping in the right direction when it extends electoral rights to deans and rectors. Democratisation is something that we unconditionally claim in the United Left as a structural measure against the feudal management practices that are home to the university and which encourage that a narrow group of university and college managements in their hands accumulates power, accumulates influence and accumulates resources. Now this democratisation is not even going far enough, but at least another beginning. As it is written here in the novel ZVIS, unfortunately, it is not enough to convince us in the United Left. We will be against the commercialisation of education and against the novel ZVIS.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u147	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 15. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds within the framework of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, we in the United Left will vote against it. I will try to explain in a way that is understandable to all, not just the socialists. This story has its original sin, its sin, and its mortal sin. The original sin is that, after the so-called Yazbinšk Law, this society and the country have not established a serious housing policy for 20 years that would allow socially disadvantaged, youthful forms of housing, housing cooperatives and the like. He has a sin, which we call the municipal Zuyf, which is to those who are entitled to non-profit housing, but because of the fact that there is a Member who is now in the coalition; when he was in the opposition, he explained how certain mayors boasted and "we do not have any non-profit apartment with us, because we do not need it". [[…]] The Minister-General herself said when I asked her a question on behalf of the United Left about the remainder of the apartments owned by the MORS, "who would need such apartments in Tolmin and Illyrian Bistrica?".. Because of such a mental scheme, and because of the municipal "zuzifia" we have come to some position in which we are. When we proposed this in the United Left, we said that there was probably also an unconstitutionality, which, after all, the Constitutional Court proved. We also have a mortal sin. The mortal sin that one commits a coalition says, "Ah, because we have a year to solve this case." If those who vote to end this, because this unconstitution could very quickly be very elegant and also systematically resolved, because this is a systemic proposal, dear gentlemen, who have been looking for systemic solutions for two years now, you will, of course, create a mortal sin as politicians. And I can't say at the end of the day that in Styria we name something in German with a dog, but I won't say anything. Because it is extremely irresponsible that — in some society you win with your heads — someone who has full mouth and rights and ethics up and down allows a situation that is unconstitutional to allow for some possibility that in fact those who are the most needed emergency arrangements will not be able to wait. Thank you for your word. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u149	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a bill on the health adequacy of food and products as well as of substances that come in contact with food within the framework of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the health adequacy of food and products and of substances that come into contact with food is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This amendment to the law refers to the restriction on the content of transmatures in live animals that we have on commercial shelves. Over the last 20 years, countless research has been conducted around the world on transmuscular toxicity, and all without exception, it has been shown that transfatal acid consumption has repeatedly increased the potential for heart disease, blood vessels, cancers, embryonic problems in pregnancy and so on. In short, it's literally poison that's on our trade shelves and that people in this country are enjoying. First, because they are not informed about it, secondly because we as the legislator do not act. Around the world, many countries have already taken action in this direction. They're leading the United States of America where they've practically banned food transmatures. In Europe, however, we have some bright cases, including Denmark, which has already regulated this in 2006, and we have Latvia, Hungary and Austria. In our proposal, we have followed the Latvian example, which limits transmatures to the point to which European regulations leave it, and we have proposed that a legislative amendment be adopted, which is a minimum, which is technical. But the point is that the government should have settled this area within six months. However, traders and producers would have one year to adapt to the new legislation or new restrictions they would introduce. Manufacturers have assured us that they have no problem with this because they have virtually eliminated these processing processes in which transfatuation occurs. Moreover, traders do not have problems because they simply impose new requirements on suppliers, particularly foreigners who export trans-fat products to Slovenia. But it's stuck with Vlad. However, the government objected to the need to notify the European Commission, and after its initial warnings to this problem in the State Council, we have also handled it properly. We have arranged for the transitional periods to be long enough, we have arranged for the Legislative and Legal Service, and we have arranged that there are no technical barriers to the adoption of this legislation today, because also in Latvia they have followed the same principle – first the law and then the notification. And if someone votes today that our law is not suitable for further consideration, they will only do so out of political prestige and we will put public health ahead of political prestige and, of course, we will vote "against".
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u151	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and 52 votes against 19. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on collective management of copyright and related rights under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group and DeSUS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group and DeSUS to Article 6. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present and 52 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group and DeSUS to Article 9. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, and none in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 16. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 21. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 25. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 27. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 30. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 46 votes against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 33. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 34. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SMC Group and Desus to Article 35. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SMC Group and Desus to Article 43. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SMC Group and Desus to Article 44. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SMC and Desus Group to Article 45. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SDS Group to Article 45. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 48. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SMC Group and Desus to Article 46. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SDS Group to Article 48. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 51. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SMC Group and Desus to Article 50. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SMC Group and Desus to Article 52. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Polish SMC Group and Desus to Article 70. If the amendment is accepted, the amendment under point 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 70 was adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group under point 2 became irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 75.b. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 76. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 77. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 77a. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 79. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 79. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 80. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group and Desus to Article 83. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Finally, we decide on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 85. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the handling of Mandate-Voluntary matters. I note that no new case has been submitted to the assembly until the end of this item, and I conclude it. I also conclude the 21st session of the National Assembly and wish you a pleasant holiday.
