ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Matjaž Hanžek, Miha Kordiš, Dr. Franc Trček, Luka Mesec, Dr Vinko Gorenak from 17:00 on, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Bojan Podkoršek, Mr Andrej Čuš, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Jernej Vrtovec from 17:00 on, mag. Mr Aleksander Kavčič, Mr Simon Zajc, Mr Franc Laj and Mr Franc Jurša. I welcome everyone here. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the situation in the Slovenian military and the requirements for the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue. The National Assembly is 25. 4. 2016 adopted the decision to deliver an opinion within three days on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In accordance with the decision adopted, Mr Borut Pahor sent, pursuant to Article 107(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly on 28 April, an opinion which was forwarded to all Members and Members on the basis of Article 223(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I invite the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, to address the National Assembly and further explain his written opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members, Minister, Chief of Staff, ladies and gentlemen The Slovenian army has been at the lowest level of readiness for action for the third year in a row. I also assess that, in order to make the international security situation and our tasks worse, we need to take measures to improve its readiness. I propose that we do so in the context of the modernisation of the entire national security system. I call for professional and political agreement on this. As President of the Republic and as Commander-in-Chief of its Defence Forces, I ask and propose to the Government and Parliament, to the ruling and opposition parliamentary parties, as well as to the entire professional public, to work together on this urgent task. We all understand that due to the limited financial resources available, this task is extremely ungrateful. I immediately find it essential to stress, a respected high house, the importance of its professional basis for the success of political consensus, particularly in this case. The decision to make a sustainable increase in the budget for the modernisation of the national security system is possible in my opinion and experience only if the policy and the public firmly believe that every euro invested in the modernisation will be invested in the most urgent and useful security expenditure. Without this expert plan to modernise the security system, such a political agreement is not possible without this plan. It's probably not credible either, but it's urgent. This requires complex international security conditions, both in Europe and in the world. Dear High Council! Although I have been obliged for the third time since this year to assess the level of capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces, this year's presentation of the report has aroused greater public interest. Finally, you, the National Assembly, have asked for my opinion and I present it today. This can also be explained by the fact that security does not seem as self-evident today as it may have seemed to us and the general public yesterday. Ensuring peace and security is, however, essential tasks of the State. In such circumstances, in my opinion, the changed circumstances raise the question of the necessary measures taken by the State to maintain the high level of security which is generally applicable to our country. In order to preserve and strengthen the country's security in a broader sense – I have said this in my speech when I presented my opinion on the migration and refugee crisis, and in this assessment I insist – in order to preserve and strengthen the security of the country in a broader sense, it is crucial to take action for a stronger economic recovery and to raise the standards of our people. The modernisation of the entire security system and the Slovenian Army as its military pillar is now crucial to maintaining and strengthening security in a narrower and immediate sense. I estimate that Slovenia is not directly under military threat, but I believe that, for the first time, due to the overall deterioration of the security situation in the neighbourhood of the European Union and the Member States of the NATO Union, secondly, due to the reinforced indirect and direct terrorist attacks and threats in the European Union and the NATO Union, thirdly, because of the deteriorating relations between NATO and the Russian Federation, and fourthly, due to the security dimension of the humanitarian refugee and migrant crisis, it is now more vulnerable as a country. This exposure, I believe, is manageable so far, but the unpredictability of the political and security processes in Europe and the world of such a nature that our reliance on the current readiness and ability of the existing national security system poses an irresponsible risk. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, the President! In such circumstances, at the end of this March, Minister of Defence Andrej Katič and Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces Dr Andrej Osterman presented to me a report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces for 2015. The report contains disturbing findings and assessments and it is right that we are informed of them by all those who decide on the military, on security and that the Slovenian public is also aware of them. As I have already said right after the report received at the press conference, I repeat today: for the third year in a row, I am obliged to notify the public that the Slovenian Army is at the lowest level of readiness. The report prepared by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces – and I estimate that he has prepared it very carefully and openly, which is also true – are two important assessments: an assessment of the readiness of the military to act in peace and an assessment of its readiness to act in crisis or war. The report assesses willingness to operate in peace with an average assessment sufficient. In the report prepared by the General Staff, preparedness for action in the crisis or war is assessed by an average assessment insufficient. Preparedness shall be determined by: completeness of personnel and equipment units, training, state and state of the art of military technology and by the sustainability of the activities identified by the stocks. These factors are critical in the current state of the Slovenian Army. First of all, with regard to the completeness of the personnel and equipment units. The permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces is essentially within the scope established by the medium-term programme. Its perfection fell from almost 100% in 2011 to 85% in 2015. This reduced the number of soldiers by a quarter. The completion of units with individual types of weapons according to the current formations is not appropriate. In the case of group arms, there is a critical failure with medium-sized wheeled armoured vehicles, which prevents the formation of a medium-sized battalion battle group. Perfection with anti-lock systems is equally critical. The level of strategic stockpiles of ammunition, mine-explosive assets and missiles has decreased. It is weak, ladies and gentlemen, including completeness with tactical protective equipment, ground and survival equipment and telecommunications equipment. The fleet is exhausted, with a third of the vehicles over life. Second, on the training of the peace-keeping system. Members of the peace-keeping system shall not fully meet the required standards of competence. The training was focused primarily on individuals, international operations units, response forces and units that achieved final operational capacity due to – in particular due to, but not solely due to, the lack of financial resources. The other units had a lower priority. The capacity of the contractual reserve has further decreased. The data on the number of days of field exercises carried out and the bullets fired according to the skills required are alarming, according to the report. It is also important to note that in order to train the Slovenian Armed Forces, it must continue to interfere with strategic stockpiles of ammunition. However, it is positive, and this is also highlighted in the report, that there is an increased number of exercises and trainings with foreign armed forces and training abroad. And thirdly, the third factor for assessment, regarding the availability and modernity of military technology. The human resources perfection of maintenance units has decreased by half. According to 2014 the realisation of maintenance decreased by a tenth. The availability of material assets was lower than the year before, amounting to 70%. However, it is also important that a certain part of military technology has already become technologically obsolete, which is critical in particular in the area of communication and information systems where the required alliance connectivity has not been achieved. I would also like to highlight the clear face of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is also an important factor in assessing its readiness. These are its members and its members, both permanent and spare. They are highly motivated in the training and implementation of tasks, in particular in the international environment, in support of the police and in the protection and resolution system. Assistance to people in the face of natural disasters and other hardships and participation in peace operations in the Slovenian Army is flawless. Regardless of the limited resources and the assessment of the state of the equipment they use, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces will find a way to carry out their tasks successfully. Their expertise and readiness to carry out their tasks shall be enhanced by the staff of officers and officers. The experience of individuals and units in the international environment, both in operations and in exercises, is an additional argument to conclude that the human factor is essential and that it is a positive builder of the Slovenian Army and its state. Dear President, the High House! A key, although not the only factor in lowering the readiness of the Slovenian Army in previous years and the current situation, is the reduction of financial resources. The reduction of the Slovenian Army's assets by more than 40% – from 453 to 267 million euros in the last 5 years – has halted its modernisation in line with the performance plans. The share of investments fell by 25%, to a weak 2% from the military budget. The reduction in training and maintenance resources for almost half of them had a significant impact on the readiness of soldiers, units and military techniques. Four-fifths of the funding was allocated exclusively to military personnel. The absence of financial resources cannot be replaced by additional savings, organisational changes or lowering training and maintenance standards. The most basic condition for the further development of the Slovenian Armed Forces is the implementation of the medium-term defence programme adopted by the Government in February. Despite the warning about the need for additional financial resources for the needs of the Slovenian Armed Forces and other security system operators, I must also make it clear, for the purposes of this debate, that there is no direct correlation between the volume of budgetary money and the level of security. In this context, I must stress the importance of a thorough, thoughtful and transparent professional basis on the detailed plan of the country's investment in the modernisation of the Slovenian Army and the entire security system. The opinion I submitted to you in writing on 39 pages provides more detailed information on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Army. I am grateful to the National Assembly, in particular the Defence Committee, which has already dealt with this, for having examined these particulars in more detail. Let me get this. The opinion also further explains the risk factors. Without fully repeating this part of the opinion, I should point out, however, that, for the purposes of this exercise, there are not only factors of classical military threat and geopoliticalism, such as the aggressive policy of the Russian Federation, the brutal terrorist activity of the Islamic State, the instability in the whole of the Middle East and North Africa, the increased risk of peace in the Western Balkans, but also non-military factors, among which I have included in the report the spread of the scissors of social inequality and the vulnerability of the current global economic conditions, illustrated by the forecast of a longer period of low economic growth with the possibility of a re-ocession. I also pointed out in my opinion that the task of state policy is to find the right balance of measures, which is also the most difficult, the right balance of measures for a more sustained economic recovery and a better standard of living for people on the one hand and on the other hand to modernise the national security system and to maintain and enhance security in its entirety. In fact, I think these are two sides of the same medal; this is our safe development. Perhaps over the years, in fact, everything since the mid-1990s has not had to pay as much attention to the issue of security as it is today, but we have found that the situation in Europe and the world has changed and that this is the task that we must do now. This is by its very nature an indeterminate task. This goes beyond the tasks of the government or parliament - the parties who are in the government or the opposition - in the matter, as we say, of the professional public. We are all concerned, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. When I presented the report to the public, there was a lot of talk about who was responsible for something, and he said so, it was always a legitimate question. However, it seems to me that the current situation, particularly with regard to increased security risks to the task given to the current generation of the Government, the National Assembly, the professional public, is to give very careful thought to how we will act, in addition to discussing the responsibility for the situation that has arisen, how we will act. And here, in my opinion and in my experience, it is not possible to impose tasks on only one and only for a short term. It is a very strategic action that we must all decide together and have a very convincing professional basis for doing so. Next Sunday is the day of the Slovenian Army, its holiday. A good and useful political debate on improving its readiness would also be the most valuable gift for it. I am convinced at the end, ladies and gentlemen, that the implementation of the necessary measures is the one that will preserve and strengthen the security of our country. Slovenia is a relatively safe country, even in these more difficult international circumstances. Our people, first and foremost, expect us to stay that way, in this sense we are obliged to take such action. To the National Assembly, Mr President, I thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u3	I thank the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, for his words. Mr President, thank you for honoring us with your presence. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Jan Mahnič, for a further explanation of the proposal for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, Commissioner, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm going to bring my opening act down to five points, why we see and where we see the problem in particular, in addition to being able to divide it into two categories in the grave. One's financial, the other's moral. First of all, lack of personnel. The Slovenian army does not comply with the human resources plans it has identified several times in the past. The army is still largely abandoned by soldiers, and new soldiers are not filling even cities that have been freed from departures. The average age of soldiers is rising and there are too few new young soldiers in the system. With improved climate in the labour market, the rate of departure is accelerating and we can expect that the situation will continue to deteriorate in the coming months and years. If the General Staff does not put an end to this immediately, the Slovenian Army will feel the consequences of the lack of personnel for a decade. Surely one of the reasons is the lack of financial resources, which leads us to the next point – poor pay policy. There is no secret about how low wages must be survived by members of the Slovenian Army. A little over 600 euros a month is a shameful payment for the work of soldiers. In addition to low salaries, the additional absurdity is a poor salary policy of the General Staff, which, for example, a soldier in the infantry pays some 10 euro of the field allowance for a week of hard field training, and a soldier sees a much smaller amount at the end of the month on the payroll than he would have been on the ground. Such a bizarre situation further contributes to hospital and other absences from field training. The result is low morale and less motivated training. Third time, completeness with equipment. In the media we can get information about completeness with the equipment and state of the art. Virtually all units with the exception of infantry regiments, due to lack of ammunition, are returning F2000 S rifles to storage and re-indebted over 40 years of age by an old AK. By doing so, we are returning to the level of equipment of rebel groups in Africa and the Middle East. Because of lack of perfection with night vision, the unit cannot train at night, which means that battle is only effective in the afternoon, which is inappropriate and shameful. The Valuk 6X6 vehicles are used up, only a few are used for improper maintenance and are borrowed by units for training purposes. It's also still hard for soldiers to get a replacement for destroyed uniforms and torn boots. Fourthly – inappropriate human resources policy. The key positions in the Slovenian Army include members who do not have the basic competence to carry out their duties. Some individuals in high positions either do not speak a foreign language or have not been on missions. We send disputed personnel abroad; from those who fought on JLA during the war for Slovenia to those whose name you enter in Google and their record number as an agent of the Udba. The multitude of commanders of regiments and battalions in their careers have never commanded water or troops, which is the basis for successful commanding higher-level units. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces shall cooperate as judicial experts on the basis of which the opinions of the courts shall be released from the aggressor officers of JLA. During the war for Slovenia, more than 30 Slovenian Army officers still employed fought on the side of the Yugoslav People's Army. This is just a few cases, which point to an epidemic of a politically flawed and professionally unsupported system of recruitment, which has a bearing on the expertise, readiness and competence of the Slovenian Army. We need serious reform in the field of personnel, the establishment of clear competences and standards for advancing and limiting the will of commanders at lower tactical levels and retired generals. Fifth – non-fulfilment of the commitment to establish a medium-term battalion fighting group. The establishment of the most important target capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the development challenge, the medium-term battalion fighting group, will start in the next medium term. During the transitional period until 2023, its provision will be based on the capacity of the second battalion fighting group. At the moment, training is being carried out by a motorised battalion fighting group of the First Slovenian Armed Forces Brigade, which is poorly trained in human and material terms and due to the multitude of additional tasks. Another motorised battalion fighting group is expected to be established by the next medium-term period, utopian and impossible, but the establishment of a medium-term battalion fighting group. According to current data, which is supposed to be made up of a mixture of tanks, Valukov and Swarunov; a catastrophically bad idea, both for logistical reasons – a multitude of different parts, mechanics do not have the skills to repair and maintain several types of vehicles, different fuels, lubricants and so on – as well as for operational reasons: different operating ranges of vehicles, different thicknesses of armor, different ability to drive in bad terrain, different speeds and so on. Such a'mixed grilled approach' is therefore weak, but above all it does not meet the basic international NATO established requirements for the medium battalion fighting group. Well, firefighters with cannons or at least bikes with cannons, definitely not Valuk and Svarun with a 12-millimeter machine gun or a 40-millimeter bomb. Due to all of the above, the Slovenian Army and Slovenia is drastically losing its reputation, both abroad and at home. This situation did not come overnight, however, at last the senior officers of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Ministry of Defence officials and experts who do not care about the Slovenian Army and our security and who warn against the collapse of this system if things do not improve overnight in both moral and financial terms. Personally and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance to listen to these people at least once. This government is the gravedigger of our defense system. The highest responsibility lies with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, who is therefore under the heading of the Modern Centre Party, which does not provide higher resources for the defence budget. They did not provide them in the 2014 and 2015 rebalancing, they did not provide them in the 2016 and 2017 budget and they will not even be for 2018 and 2019, but if they do, it will fall on the shoulders of the future government, because we know that we have elections in 2018 if they are regular. It is true that between 2009 and 2014, funds for the defence budget, some excessively, others in the spirit of balancing public finances, were being cut down. The Defence Department has thus survived, or specifically, the Slovenian Armed Forces with almost 50% reduction in financial resources, so this government has no justification for not providing any higher funding for the defence budget during the time of economic growth, when the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister are bragging about how successful we are again in the next four years or in four years. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have had such debates on the Defence Committee many times, for the first time in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the coalition rejected all our recommendations or all three points of our recommendation. The fourth point we wrote is that we withdrew, and this was that the highest possible age to enter from 25 years to 27 years. That's what the Slovenian Army did last week. Everything else, how to provide EUR 46 million, what we have proposed and what the Commissioner has often said on the committee, is not taken into account. Nor is it taken into account that until the summit of NATO, everything necessary is to go to Warsaw on 8 and 9 July with concrete commitments, even though these will be questionable, as we signed in 2014, our defence budget will be 2/20 by 2020. Thus, 2% of GDP will be earmarked for defence, and within this, 20% of the defence budget earmarked for investment and development. Instead, we have under the government of Mira Cerar for the defence budget 0.94% of GDP, and within this we have around 1% for investment in development. In this state, the Slovenian Army cannot operate. At the moment, the Slovenian army is just some sidekick, but it is not the punch you would need, as the president said. An assessment is insufficient for combat action. On the 110-nation scale, our army is 94th in combat efficiency or firepower. Instead of setting a goal for this government to raise Slovenia by at least 10, 15 places after combat capability by the end of its term of office, we will still step on the ground. However, the SOPR adopted by the Government indicates that politics will not change, not in the military or elsewhere. It is positive that the finance minister has found 50 million euros more for the police, but this has proved that he can. And if it does not provide another EUR 50 million or, as we have proposed, EUR 46 million for the Slovenian Army, it is purely sedition and is the planned destruction of the Slovenian Army and the defence system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u5	In order to further explain the proposal, I would also like to give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u6	Hello! Dear colleagues, how much longer are we gonna keep our eyes closed? How much longer are we gonna make sure everything's okay? The fact is that the Slovenian Army has received a negative assessment in the alliance and also in the home, and lying to itself destroys the Slovenian Army in the long run. The slightly older ones who were still serving as soldiers in the Yugoslav People's Army are most likely reminded of their "acquisitions of readiness". They knew that preparedness had to be a little better each year, and so they faked the results so that they could achieve it. The power of JLA was based on lies, the final results we all know. Even in the Slovenian Army, a methodology was used for a very long time where the results were known in advance. This result was: "The Slovenian army is able to carry out all tasks in peace and in war on a prescribed scale and according to the current security assessment." Of course, to achieve this goal, we made our meter only 60 centimeters long or to run 100 meters and turn on the stopwatch only after we had passed 40 meters. Everything was subordinated to the objective of finally saying that the Slovenian Army was ready. But the truth is, we lied to ourselves. Lying has clearly become a standard, even though we all knew that with less money we could not maintain the same level of readiness. We can't provide all the soldiers with uniforms, protective equipment or rifles. What we promised the Alliance, we did not establish. So that there is no mistake; the alliance doesn't need it for itself, we need it. All of this has caused us to lose our international reputation and become a burden to the Alliance. In 2012, Minister Hojs changed the methodology for assessing preparedness. From the methodology, because we were able to build capacity to the desired goal, a methodology was put in place based on the then Combat Readiness Evaluation standard. With the new methodology, thank God we stopped lying. Of course, we need to face the real picture for change first. Prepared status assessment from 2 dropped to 1, insufficient. That's why all the alarms should be ringing, but unfortunately only part of the opposition and the President of the Republic, and the government is nothing. Can you imagine that nothing happened even after the Chief of Staff said he urgently needed EUR 46 million? Do you imagine that, as early as February this year, the Government has adopted a medium-term defence programme within the framework of the current budget? Unfortunately, we're still lying about this program. Some facts, however, most plastic describing the situation in the Slovenian Army. First, with regard to the defense budget. Minister, it is not said that this government has stopped the trend of falling into the defence budget. Indeed, the Slovenian army has won several million more, and has lost several million to finance organisations and various membership fees. It's just creative accounting. With regard to morality in the Slovenian Army and also in the General Staff, the Popov case is clearly revealed. It was in this house that one General of the Slovenian Army told the Ministers and Members that the other General was lying, and nothing would happen. With regard to the Popov case, we have not yet cleared up and clearly stated which general lied; if we remain silent, we are obviously agreeing to a lie. And about the material condition. Currently, the Slovenian Armed Forces patrols at the borders should have 12 guns, ground vehicles; they have 5 and are therefore asked by police to drive in their vehicles – there is nothing to add. The 12 Bell helicopters will run out of life in 2020 and only one third of the required bullets will be fired in exercises. That's enough. We no longer have time, we must act today and today's meeting is intended to reach a broad political consensus that more resources for the defence budget are urgently needed. If we can guarantee EUR 40 million to the police, if we can provide more than EUR 100 million for handling the migration crisis, then we can also provide them for the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u7	On 3 May 2016, the draft recommendation was addressed by the Defence Committee. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u8	President, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 34th emergency meeting, on 3 May 2016, the Defence Committee, as the working body, considered the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the situation in the Slovenian Army and requested the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this matter, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 April by the parliamentary group of Members from the SDS and NSI. In the supplementary explanation, the speakers presented the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and the content of the four points of the proposal for a recommendation. So far, several discussions have taken place on the state of our defence system, the state of the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Army. In this regard, a number of rebuttal recommendations and decisions were also adopted in the National Assembly, and last but not least on the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, where the Government was unanimously invited by the members of the Commission to provide additional financial resources for the defence and security of the State due to the resulting migration crisis. The security situation that has deteriorated with the emergence of the migrant crisis is not calming down. In view of the ever-increasing new conflicts occurring in some EU and Baltic countries, the issue of self-security can be expected to become increasingly important. In the light of this, our defence and security capabilities must also be updated and modernised. In short, they need to be prepared for the challenges of modern times. We will soon have a new proposal for the Defence Act under consideration in the National Assembly, and it will also be an opportunity to discuss this issue and to seek common solutions and consensus to improve, and in particular to develop the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The SDS and NSI members decided to convene an extraordinary meeting on the basis of a report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces for 2015, which is extremely negative. The report is historical in the fact that the Slovenian Army is assessed negatively in the area of preparation for combat action. In addition, it is permissible to discuss the reasons why this situation has occurred, but the main objective of the applicant is to hear the government's commitments in the plans to correct the situation by addressing that point. The proposals proposed four specific points and were supplemented by amendments on the basis of the opinion of the PSC and withdrawn one. The representative of the ZPS presented the written opinion of the ZPS and the applicant duly took the comments of the ZPS into account in the amendments. Minister of Defence Andrej Katič presented the reasons and views regarding the current situation in the Slovenian Army and the consequences of the decrease in financial resources from 2010 onwards in the entire defence ministry. The Defence Department shared the fate of stabilising public finances and the defence budget decreased significantly after 2010. This, however, has affected the development of the planned capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the implementation of the commitments undertaken under NATO and the ability to carry out legally defined tasks. The Chief of General Staff pointed out that this year's report to the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces was carried out in accordance with the methodology of the report adopted in 2012. This allows for a comparison with 2013, 2014 and 2015. The comparison of reports shows that there are no significant differences; they are largely in human resources perfection, since the Public Finance Balance Act has been adopted. The equipment remained the same, except for the equipment to be used, it became even more worn out. In the debate, opposition Members pointed out that the government had made a promise in the past year to raise the budget but did not. However, the funds also declined nominally in 2016. Part of the members of the committee expressed great indignation at the participation of the Slovenian Army honorary squad in the discovery of the statue to Ivan Macko Matija. We know that Cat is, by all international standards, a common criminal, as defined in the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. It is known that the Cat himself confessed these crimes and also defended them. The members of the Committee pointed out that, with the presence of the Slovenian Armed Forces, they played an active role in marking that event, which raises the question of what the values of this army are today, since two elements — readiness and values — are required for each effective military. The Coalition Members agreed that there was no one who did not realize this issue of lack of resources for the defence system, but at the same time pointed out that we only have one budget to draw on for all budgetary users. However, they are convinced that the Government has a serious intention to stop the decline of funds for the Slovenian Army. Unfortunately, the current situation does not allow the military to allocate additional funds. In accordance with Rules 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all points of the proposal and did not adopt them. The proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the situation in the Slovenian Army and the request for the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue on the working body has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u9	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Defence Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u10	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The fact that the area of defence is an important part of your work shows that we have already addressed this area at 34 urgent meetings of the Defence Committee of the National Assembly. At the end of February, we presented to the Committee the reasons and views on the current situation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the consequences of the reduction in funding from 2010 onwards on the entire defence system. First, about the funding. The undeniable fact is that the defence department shared the fate of the stabilisation of public finances and that after 2010, the defence budget was significantly reduced, which also had an impact on the development of the planned capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, on the implementation of the commitments undertaken under NATO and on the ability to carry out the statutory tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The Government's position is that changes in the broader security environment to which we have witnessed in the past period and the related need to deal effectively with security risks require the development of comprehensive systemic solutions with the aim of ensuring an effective and sustainable defence system that will ensure an adequate level of defence capacity of the country. The Ministry of Defence operates three ways in this context. Firstly, we are already conducting a strategic review of the defence at the Ministry of Defence. Secondly, a revision of the basic normative documents of the defence system is being prepared, from which the proposal for a new Defence Act is already in public debate. At the same time, amendments to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army are being prepared. And thirdly, along with the allies, a new set of capacity targets will be developed in NATO. In addition, it should be added that halting the fall in defence expenditure and increasing it gradually is the objective to be pursued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the medium term and is also covered by the Medium-term Defence Programme 2016-2020 adopted by the Government on 17 February this year. However, it should be borne in mind that the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union and of the European Monetary Union, is committed to respect common rules, both in public finances and in the wider macroeconomic field, and that the requirements of the various stakeholders – from the police, pensioners, the work of the public sector union – have already been exposed to the Government. With regard to the proposed recommendation, the Government's view is that only partial solutions are proposed. Most are already being implemented in a wider range of measures, while others are, in fact, difficult to implement in the manner proposed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal to provide an additional 46 million Slovenian troops this year estimates that, under existing public funding options, no additional funding can be provided to the extent stated in the recommendation. However, the Ministry of Defence is regularly provided with additional resources to carry out new or additional tasks. The tasks carried out by the Slovenian Armed Forces in the context of the migration problem were provided with €8.66 million this year. It is also envisaged to provide additional funds for the cost of the extended operation of the multi-purpose Triglav in operation EUNAVFOR MED Sophia, for increased participation in the operation of EUTM Mali and for participation in the global anti-terrorist coalition against Daesh or the Islamic State. The Government considers that, in preparing the starting points for the preparation of the 2017 budget changes, it will be an opportunity to redefine priorities across specific areas in the country, including the defence area, and that there will also be opportunities in this framework to provide additional funding for the Slovenian Army. I personally believe that it would be most important to reach consensus in order to ensure a stable source of funding for the Slovenian Army, which will be respected by all governments in order to ensure a stable source of funding for all three security pillars. And that could be the only real conclusion to this session today. How can this be achieved given that in the past we had specific laws on the financing of the Slovenian Armed Forces adopted by the National Assembly for the period 1994 to 2015? Between 1994 and 2007, the Slovenian Army spent around EUR 726 million, between 2008 and 2015 710, but only EUR 121 million was spent. Capacity building is a long-term and demanding project – organisational, human resources and financial. If this is interrupted in the middle of implementation, we are faced with consequences as we can monitor them today. Since last year, the Ministry of Defence has been implementing quite extensive employment measures in the Slovenian Army, which we have extended this year to the contractual reserve and to the voluntary service of the military deadline. We have already explained the measures to the Defence Committee in more detail on employment information. Despite the increase in the scope of the measures for the acquisition of personnel, the Slovenian Armed Forces are still dealing with the problems of the failure of the Slovenian Armed Forces and its troops. Last year we formed a special working group to complete the Slovenian Armed Forces and positive effects on employment have already been achieved through the implementation of measures. If we compare employment in previous years, in 2013 the Slovenian Army employed 171 members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from total 7359, in 2014 141 totals 7175 and in 2015 265 totals 7055. Unfortunately, this shows that despite the increased number of jobs, the Slovenian Army still leaves more personnel than it does. We have already hired 50 new members this year by 23 March, and we plan to employ at least 275 more members by the end of the year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall also adopt human resources plans when the budget is adopted. For this year, the Slovenian Army Staff Plan allows 7254 jobs, for 2014 7328, for 2013 7377. A decision on the recruitment of soldiers by the age of 27 and on the provision of additional funds for promotion, as proposed in the recommendation, has also been taken as part of the recruitment measures. In the next period, it will also be necessary to take measures to retain staff. On the system level, certain solutions are already incorporated into the draft Defence Act, which is under public scrutiny. We will also propose them in the framework of the amendment of the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army and in the framework of the amendment of the Law on Public Servants and the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. Let me touch more training. In 2015, the Slovenian army retained the same scope of implementation as in the previous year, despite the fact that since the beginning of the migration crisis, it has been present since autumn in support of the work of Civil Protection and the Ministry of the Interior. The number of days of field training has increased; indeed, the number of bullets fired has decreased and training has also been provided on simulators. In 2015, the Slovenian Army conducted 58 exercises and collective trainings in Slovenia and abroad, with a total of 2 000 300 members and members of the Slovenian Army. In 2014, 47 exercises were carried out. The number of exercises with foreign armed forces increased from 31 to 38, there was also an increase in the number of training abroad, the number of days of field training increased by 1.6 % compared to 2014. The Slovenian army also actively participated in the system of protection against dangerous and other disasters, where it carried out 229 rescue actions. It's about a strategic defense review. In accordance with the medium-term defence programme SOPR 2016-2020, which, as I have already said, was adopted by the Government at the end of February, the Ministry of Defence launched a strategic review of defence 2016 in March. The review will be completed as scheduled at the beginning of October 2016. The purpose of the strategic review is to review the adequacy and effectiveness of our defence capabilities and the functioning of the defence system in the changed strategic security environment. We will get an answer to the question whether the organisation and functioning of the defence system and its capabilities provide the necessary response and capacity to face current and anticipated security threats and risks. The implementation of the strategic review takes place in three stages. In the first phase, an analysis of the current situation is carried out for each of the areas provided for in the structure of the document. In accordance with the preparation schedule, the analysis will be completed on 10 May 2016. The second phase, expected to be completed by 10 June, will draw up proposals for measures and solutions for each area, a plan for the implementation of measures and activities to address identified shortcomings. Following cross-cutting coordination, the results of the strategic review will be proposed for adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the deadline of 3 October 2016. Most of the strategic review will take place before the NATO Summit in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July 2016 and the final version will be developed after the summit. This will also allow for the inclusion of the conclusions of the NATO Summit in the action plan and activities prepared by the Strategic Review of Defence. During the same period, they will therefore be formed at the same time after public consultation and inter-departmental coordination of the proposal of the Defence Act and the amendment of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. This will allow us to include the proposed solutions to the strategic defence review in both laws at the systemic level. In the recommendation, it is not possible to shorten the deadlines for carrying out the strategic defence review for those reasons. This is a demanding process, which is usually prepared by countries for a significantly longer period, even up to two years. Regarding the construction of the capacity of the Central Battalion Battle Group. Also, the part of the recommendation relating to the timetable for the establishment of the medium-term battalion fighting group is unrealised within the proposed deadlines until 2018. At the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, a development map of the Central Battalion Battle Group was developed with a view to a transparent and coordinated development. This represents an action plan for the development of the capacity of the Central Battalion Battle Group, its target organisation, composition and equipment. This must be based first on the financial framework available in the medium term. The financial projection is based on the adopted budget for 2016 and 2017 and on a proportionate increase in defence expenditure from 2014 to 2020. The scope of funding for the purchase of equipment throughout the medium-term period allows for the establishment of financially less appropriate, less demanding capacities. In the Slovenian Army, due to the stagnation of the supply of SKA 8x8 Svarun and the reduction of financial resources, they have taken a rational approach to the dynamics of the development of this capacity. The Slovenian army is expected to reach the final operational capacity of the Central Battalion Battle Group in mid-2017, but with limitations. It has also achieved such criteria by means of a small or motorized battalion fighting group. The restrictions relate in particular to fire support. SOPR 2016-2020 the creation of the most important target capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the development challenge, that is, the medium-term battalion fighting group translates into the next medium-term period. In the transitional period until 2023, its provision will be based on the capacity of the second battalion fighting group. Without greater investment in the acquisition of major equipment, in particular combat vehicles for the medium battalion group, it is not possible to achieve final operational capacity and therefore the recommendation is in fact difficult to implement. Let me just say, for example, that the SKV 8x8 purchase project of Swaruna or Patrie from the signing of the contract – with the funding provided – has been almost two and a half years since the acquisition of the first serial vehicles. However, even in the event of the immediate provision of substantially increased financial resources for the purpose of establishing a medium-sized battalion battle group and providing the necessary equipment in 2017 until the end of 2018, it would not be possible to achieve the final operational capacity. Capacity shall be ensured only when all of its elements are adequately linked. Although equipment with key material resources is the most visible element of capacity building, capacity cannot be discussed until a complete set of equipment is designed and exposed to doctrinal capacity, an appropriate organisational structure has been developed, training carried out at all levels of management and command or capacity management, a comprehensive set of equipment is provided, adequate staffing completeness is ensured at all levels and appropriate guidance is provided to support it, all necessary infrastructure is provided and interoperability with other capabilities and other members of the Alliance is ensured. Finally, let me stress that in the Ministry of Defence and in the Slovenian Army, we will do our utmost to implement measures with the financial resources available to us to raise preparedness in the Slovenian Army in 2016. To this end, we are also actively implementing the measures already presented in the area of the employment of the permanent composition and the completion of the voluntary contractual reserve. The provision of emergency quantities of uniforms and protective equipment will increase the safety of the operations of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces at home and in international operations and missions. The realisation of the planned purchases this year will improve the perfection to highlight some areas. A project to protect against unexploded EODs will obtain planned missing equipment and dedicated MRAP 6x6 armoured vehicles, thereby building planned capacity. The JTAC Air Fire Directors project will be completed at the level of equipment with individual equipment of air support routers. Infantry weapons and optical means for the Special Operations Unit will be acquired. By the end of 2016, the Slovenian Armed Forces will acquire approximately 9 000 min 120mm of ammunition after the renovation of the ammunition and will also acquire a new 40mm training ammunition for automatic bombers. Let me conclude again by thinking that investing in security is a long-term investment, but it will only come back when the various crises arise, when this security is threatened, which we have all come to know together again in the face of the migration crisis and the worsening of the wider security situation, even in our immediate vicinity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u12	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have a very important topic ahead of us, and it is also very complex. We have heard this from the President of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a matter of building a national security system, whose military is a very important component, but we note and point out that there is not enough willingness on all components to cooperate and there are many problems. The police have been on strike for months, and the situation is not solved. Owl; the problem since the appointment of the Director is still lingering and has not yet been corruption-cleared. And, of course, the military as such has problems both in personnel and equipment and in technology. It is about supporting all the smart solutions, and here the opposition has always been constructive. We have proposed a number of solutions, we have proposed a number of laws, but we have not been heard many times. From the speech of the President of the Republic, it has been heard that we must overcome the division to the left and right and together create this important component of security, which is the basis for the functioning of the economy. The recommendations and reports that were the basis for today's debate are only the tip of the iceberg. When we look at the situation and assess the threat in general, we see that we are witnessing a whole new source of danger. This is because military sources of threat are increasingly passing into non-military, and this is reflected in the role of the military. We have seen, we have had a consultation on hybrid threats, on Russia's problem, on the media war, the Balkan path is once again very active, the Middle East is not so far away and the role of multinationals and global policies in this area. Answers in all these areas are therefore expected; they are a fusion of responses in the security, economic, social and cultural fields. And that's why all ministries have to participate here. We often put problems into one ministry. And it is the cooperation of the ministries that is the key task and the weakest point of this government. This is noted in all committee discussions. It's about moving into the digital age of the 21st century. The digital age means investing in the purchase of equipment, education and training. The Minister's speech has repeatedly stressed that they are investing in training, but we see that the most often this segment is limping. There's not enough investment in the frame, in their career system. What we need to turn into a future – turn the concept into a preventive, not a reactive, repressive. To think on how we will respond to future security challenges. I would like to draw attention to some of the solutions proposed. The privatisation of the military has been shown in some systems that have already gone into this as bad. The measurement of economic efficiency alone meant that the staffing structure had deteriorated. The influence of multinationals in the procurement of weapons, in the protection of interests in strategic areas, has proved to be very poor. We see that the problem is the fluctuation of personnel in the Slovenian Army – the reduction of numbers and then the employment of new ones, but it takes a long time for such a person to become qualified and to act in accordance with the requirements. The effectiveness of staff is often required and this forces people into overcrowding. But we ignore what I've already warned you about, the ecological factor. This is increasingly stressed; with new ammunition, with new techniques, this threat to personnel working in the Slovenian Army is increasing. And if we don't have enough money, then we buy a cheap one, which is ecologically controversial. That is why we must witness the new concept, which I call the plural Slovenian Army. It is about stressing the use of a technique that somehow works to prevent conflicts and protect those who are employed, that functions change in cooperation with the local environment, and that we are increasingly witnessing the specialisation of those who are employed in the Slovenian Army, which is sometimes not enough for many of the answers they need to provide. Education and training must be stressed, especially in this new age of digitisation, and a career system must be built. What do we see, why is there a fluctuation? Overcrowding and overexpectation, and on the other hand, not enough income. Stress, which is a very strong factor in fluctuation, is also a strong factor in tearing apart families of those employed in the Slovenian Army. I believe that we need to work harder to build a career for a man who is satisfied with his work and will therefore be satisfied at home, which will affect his career. This new concept is built from the bottom down, from that last soldier in the Slovenian Army up, although on the other hand we evaluate the institution according to what it leads. So meeting these two concepts is essential, with a focus on building from below. We must also build a system from the bottom up in European institutions; although we are small, we must defend and protect our own interests and enforce them within the framework of European institutions, which I think we have so far very much ignored. We need to improve our operation by means of the transfer of good practices from abroad and by increasing cooperation between institutions abroad and also by what I have warned – between institutions in Slovenia, between individual ministries. This concept, built from below, can be the future with sufficient support from the Government, because the Government is responsible for the security situation. And if the government expects economic growth, the basis for economic growth for Slovenia is a very safe environment. And this is provided by the Government with the police, the military, the Owl and other institutions, which is not good for it, and in the future we expect it to do more if it does not, and we expect it to do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings from ministers, chief generals, colleagues, colleagues! The defence policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Army has not been in public for as long as we have seen it in the last few months. On the one hand, the excellent work of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who, in addition to their regular tasks, were involved in addressing the refugee and migrant issue in the Republic of Slovenia, contributed to greater visibility. On the other hand, international circumstances and greater public sensitivity to internal and external security issues have been changed to pressure the Government and to open up debates in which some have sought to present the situation in the Slovenian Army as catastrophic and unsustainable. Since October 2015, 5 regular and 20 emergency meetings of the Defence Committee have been held. At these meetings, Members of the SMC have been working constructively and we have not escaped the reality of the ongoing savings in defence since 2010 and the systemic problems that have accumulated since independence. As we have demonstrated in our past discussions, we share the concerns of the Slovenian Army and the external and internal security of our country in the modern centre Party Group. In view of this concern, we are aware that we are not defence experts, but we are responsible for the task of representatives of all citizens and citizens who have to take care of the coherent development of our country in all areas and to fulfil a number of international commitments. With a view to our fundamental mission, we constantly point out that the powers of the National Assembly and its working bodies in this area are very clearly defined. The Defence Committee shall not assume the functions of the investigating body or disciplinary commission. Members of the National Assembly are those who must respect the separation of the various branches of government and cannot adopt acts that interfere with the other branch of power and the relations within it. Although we would all like to be able to increase resources for the development of the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces at this time, we are committed to follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which clearly defines when and how the state budget or its balance is adopted. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we welcome every debate and every proposal for an act of the National Assembly, which attempts to improve the situation within the competences we have in the Slovenian Army. Unfortunately, in the case of today's agenda item, we must find, like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the measures taken by today's proposed extraordinary meeting in the recommendation to the Government are unnecessary and in individual parts not feasible. The assessment by the President of the Republic, who has already observed for the third year in a row that the Slovenian Army is at the lowest level of operational capacity, shows that the current situation in the Slovenian Army has not been born overnight and cannot be rectified by one move or one recommendation. Instead of resorting to popular but unrealistic solutions, the current government has taken a bite into the sour apple of finding systemic solutions, including ensuring adequate funding. The government of Dr. Mir Cerar is the first government to have succeeded in halting the nominal decline in defence spending since the Slovenian Army’s withdrawal of funds since the time of the government of Borut Pahor. According to existing forecasts, the decline in defence expenditure as a share of Slovenia's gross domestic product will also be halted in 2017. For 2016, the Government's regulatory work plan provides for the adoption of two system laws – the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. On the first, a public debate is under way and all interested parties have the opportunity to submit their proposals and comments. We are convinced that in the context of the adoption of this law there is an opportunity to seek some professional and political consensus on the further development of the Slovenian Army. In today's general debate on the proposal for a recommendation and on the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the state of readiness in the Slovenian Army, we will cooperate in a reasoned and data-based manner. Nevertheless, we point to the necessary sensitivity when we are discussing the challenges of the Slovenian Army in such a public manner. The detailed processing of all information about the Slovenian Army, Slovenia and its reputation in the international community is certainly more damaging than the benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ivan Janša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. The president made me laugh when he talked about how this debate is detrimental to Slovenia's reputation in the international public, because we are talking about sensitive data regarding the Slovenian Army. More sensitive information than what the President of the Republic used to say here and in more detail in writing to the National Assembly is simply not available. If someone would like to scan the Slovenian Army and our defence readiness, there is no more precise, sensitive, important strategic data such as in this report. Whatever you say here, nothing goes beyond that. And, of course, today, in 2016, this data does not make sense to hide; they are known by our allies, known by our perhaps potential opponents, we are no longer in the time of Yugoslavia. They also knew more about the condition of the Yugoslav army outside than the citizens of Yugoslavia should have known. However, at this point in time, at least according to my knowledge of the world, there is no country in which the Commander-in-Chief would assess his own army with an underestimation. If anyone knows any country in the world, then introduce it. Which means that the situation must be extremely alarming and the data presented also attach to it. But when this assessment came to the public when the President of the State said that the Slovenian Army was assessed in case of a crisis or war by an assessment insufficient – that is to say, we do not have an army capable of defending this country in case of a crisis or war – nothing happened. From this assessment, when this evaluation was made public, I do not think that the National Security Council has met. There hasn't been a single session on this subject at this time. However, it is an organ that should meet in a few hours after such an assessment or before it was made public. Even in the Slovenian media, this didn't cause any big alarm. At the time, I think the main topic was a mysterious account of former boxer Dejan Zavc in Panama. That was the main topic. However, the government coalition has been involved in the recruitment of Slovenian hospitals for a week. It is only the opposition that has achieved that today we have had this debate, that this debate has already been before on the Committee and that the President of the State has, in accordance with his powers here, expressed some weighty but very worrying words. Although in part he tried to reassure the public in the sense that Slovenia was not directly threatened. In January 1991, public opinion polls published in Slovenia showed that only 15% of people believed that an aggression by the Yugoslav army or anyone else would be carried out over Slovenia. Five months later, this aggression occurred. Earlier, some key politicians in state offices had signed a declaration, a so-called declaration for peace, where the Slovenian public had been told that we were not threatened, that Slovenia did not need an army and that it had to be demilitarised. One year earlier, before the first multilateral elections in Slovenia in April 1990, Slovenia had more than 100,000 pieces of infantry, anti-lock and anti-aircraft weapons. There were over 100,000 military bonds in formations. And if that were the case after the elections and after the plebiscite, there probably wouldn't be a war. No one would attack a country that can defend 100,000 armed men. Especially would Milosevic not have done this because he had other plans. Our historical experience teaches us — not the historical experience of anyone else — that things can turn out very quickly in history and that they attack you when you are weak and not when you are strong. And we're weak today. And it's on its own account. No one else has forced us into the situation we are talking about today. Unfortunately, there is also a tragic historical reminiscence ahead of us and a comparison with 1990. Before the first multilateral elections that Demos won, Slovenia was able to arm over 100,000 people and put them in defence of the country, the Republic, and then in three or four days this changed dramatically, because after the elections had already been held and it was clear that the government would be composed of Demos, the Yugoslav army, with the participation of the then old communist authorities in Slovenia, disarmed the Territorial Defence and took over 80% of its capacity. The body that had to react was the then Presidency of the Republic, although Milan Kučan, President of the Presidency, was informed in time. By ordering him to stop handing over weapons, he delayed for three or four days until most of those weapons were collected. And then some, I'll say, of course, of those who supported the Yugoslav idea in the then Territorial Defence Arms were broadcasting, even though they had orders not to do so. The order was issued on 18 May 1990; they all received it by late evening hours, but if it was sent by Mr Kučan by JLA codes and they needed long hours in the municipalities to decipher it. But some were also broadcasting weapons a day later, such as the Provincial Headquarters of the Territorial Defence of Zasavje; because he was a colleague who previously spoke from Zasavje probably knew something about it. Even then, our fellow citizens in the responsible functions of the defence capacity of Slovenia failed, resulting in aggression. If it were not, the war for Slovenia would not have been because no Slovenia would have attacked if it had had the defence power it had before disarming from 15 to 19 May 1990. Today the state of Slovenia was, thanks to the Demos' government, capable of at least a part of this, I will say, the stolen defence power to replace it and has nevertheless successfully resisted aggression. [[…]] In a relatively short period of time, defence capacities were established, which were greater than those held by Slovenia today, after 25 years of independent life. What you have in this paper sent by the Office of the President of the State is an eyewitness. Although it is not the main problem, as General Krković said at the previous meeting of the Defence Committee, in money and material resources. The main problem we face is elsewhere. The reasons for the situation described here primarily in numbers are not in numbers and are not in money, at least not in the first place. The first reason is in relation to the Slovenian Army by the branch of politics or, I could say, the titoist left since the independence of the country. The Slovenian armies opposed the formation and opposed it and tried to weaken and suppress it and weaken it later. To a large extent, this position was covered by the attitude towards the Slovenian Army with respect to the North Atlantic Alliance. If we remember the discussions at the time we entered NATO, then this picture can be clear to us and this correlation is more than obvious. Not to mention how some visit the liaison delegations then talk about the imperialists, but also sit at a concert of this orchestra and the Red Army choir in Stožice. So the key problem is the attitude towards the Slovenian Army by part of a policy that was dominant most of the time since 1991. For years, conceptual and doctrinal documents have been in breach, where they mainly spell out what should be done, but not implemented, and not just because of the lack of funding. When Slovenia – not under the rule of Demos or SDS, but at the time that Slovenia was led by the Government of Liberal Democracy – abandoned the military’s recruitment and professional composition, it was also in the conceptual documents and also in the Military Duty Act itself that a reserve was set up, large enough for Slovenia to defend itself at any time. But of those numbers that were then foreseen, between 15 and 20 thousand reserves, today is on the list, as we saw in the report of the president of the country, 600 people; six nothing, not even 6,000, but 600 people. And when they were called in to protect the border, they said only 200 and more responded. So that's how effective the reserve is — nothing. A small congregation can bring this together if necessary or sometimes do so. And this is about farce and making fun of it. This reserve was deliberately abandoned, reduced, and never established to a sufficient extent. Within one mandate, this is not even possible because of the training and partly the necessary funding, but every year it is more difficult given that the level of these skills is falling. Those who see the reasons or show the reasons for the current bad situation in the Slovenian Army in the fact that Slovenia has moved from recruitment to professional composition do not know what it is talking about because it was not meant to. When we recently tried to correct this situation with a proposal on how to strengthen the reserve with the concept of the National Guard, this proposal was rejected. In fact, he refused at the same time as the President of the State declared that the defence system was insufficient and that the situation in the Slovenian Army in the event of a crisis or war or aggression was unsatisfactory; not enough or bad enough, but unsatisfactory. I don't know if you know what this evaluation means in this case. As far as breaking NATO's commitments is concerned; in fact, there is hardly any commitment made by Slovenia that we have not broken in recent times. Slovenia is in this alliance, which, of course, means that that article – the attack on one is an attack on all, and the defence is common – somehow also passes into parentheses. Because if someone does not want to contribute to collective security, of course it will not contribute to their individual security. The table published in this paper is shameful. I do not know what the representatives of Slovenia will say at the NATO Summit in Warsaw in the summer to defend this situation, given that significantly better countries with lower standards are smaller gross domestic product, including many other problems. Actually, he didn't apologize here. All these anomalies, which have now culminated in the assessment insufficiently, have been pointed out practically over the decades. They were partly eliminated in some periods, but the trend was negative. As has already been said, the main problem is not financing. Slovenia devoted less money to the army at the time it needed it most, 25 years ago, but today it is dedicated to the Slovenian Army. The budget for the Slovenian Territorial Defence in 1991 was lower than today's budget for the Slovenian Armed Forces. Even so, the Slovenian Army defended the country together with the Slovenian police. Even if we had acted differently, perhaps the defense would not have been necessary because there would be no aggression, we could have prevented it. So, the key problem is not finance, it is here to agree with General Krkovich. The key problem is the attitude towards the Slovenian Army and the key problem is the messages shared by the ruling policy to those expected to defend the country. Some of you have mentioned before me the Popov case, which is just the tip of the iceberg. In Slovenia, many too many people were killed during the aggression, the damage was then, it is difficult to calculate now, but it was tens of billions of then tolars. There have been dozens of prosecutions for violations of military law. None of these were convicted in Slovenian courts. And now this last case of Colonel Popov, who destroyed half of Gornja Radgona, was directly responsible for the death of civilians, not only of defenders or of his own soldiers because of excessive use of force or because of the threat of civilian populations and facilities, was forgiven by the help of senior Slovenian military officers, senior Slovenian military officers who were on the same side 25 years ago, and today they are pampered and dressed in the Slovenian Army in high positions. So the main problem is the relationship and the main problem are the messages. At the same time, when Colonel Popov was pardoned, one of the key people of the defence of Slovenia received a summons 25 years ago from General Tone Krkovič — the same court that acquitted or the courts of the same state where the court acquitted General Popov and dozens of other aggressors — for questioning because he shot down an enemy helicopter or for obeying orders from the Supreme Command to shoot at enemy vessels. What is the message of this situation, which occurred at the 25th anniversary of Slovenian independence, in fact at the same time interval? What is the message, what is the lesson for those in the uniform of the Slovenian Army today or for those who want to be included there, because the drought is very large because the people of the Slovenian Army are leaving and the new ones are not coming, what is the message? The message is: To defend the Slovenian state is a risky job and a risky profession; if you defend it, if you obey orders and shoot an enemy who attacks this country, you can be prosecuted by the court of this country and at the same time forgive all those who have attacked this country. Who in their right mind would go into such an exciting profession? And there is also a moral dimension that we can see, who was looking at the footage of this last disgrace, which was mentioned earlier by Comrade Mahnic, when Slovenian soldiers in Slovenian Army uniforms stood at the reconstruction of the statue of one of the greatest criminals in Europe by Ivan Cat Matija, who boasted that he was responsible for the death of over 10,000 people killed without trial – prisoners of war, men, women and children. And in these known facts, this was not in 1976 or 1986 but in 2016, when these facts were known when they were illustrated. For example, at the exhibition on totalitarianism in Europe in the lobby of the Chamber, where the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is sitting, a picture of the same criminal with a description of his conduct, and at home he discovers or re-sets a monument and stands next to the Slovenian Army. What message do you give with this Slovenian soldier, officers? That it is honorable to commit war crimes, so you will receive a monument, but if you defend the country, as General Krkovich did, you will receive a summons from the court. At the head of which Branko Masleš sits, who during the aggression of the Yugoslav army against Slovenia shouted at the copier's court "now that JLA is carpeting Slovenia, you will see the fruit". Because of these things, we have a crisis in the defence system, which has led to a situation that is not in any other known country in the world – at least I don't know if anyone, to point it out – that the president of the state, the nominee commander of the defence forces, has issued a public assessment of the Slovenian Army, which is "not enough" and writes along with, if you haven't read it yet, give it again: "The Slovenian army, in case of a crisis or aggression, on the basis of all the criteria used in the evaluation, deserves an assessment insufficient, which means that it is not able to say its functions." But none of this happened. Yesterday, too, the government coalition rejected some rational proposals that were made at this meeting. I said earlier that this assessment did not meet with the National Security Council, which once last year, I think that it was four hours to discuss whether the budget reserve would go to the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior for the purpose of migration issues and it was very painful, since the National Security Council, through the system we have, would stop and law a body which, at first, should say something and take measures. Thus, somewhere in a similar situation, when the conduct of the largest government party on this issue was very similar to that of the Liberal Democracy 25 years ago, when members of those parties in this Chamber, which had not yet been recast, voted against all measures to strengthen the defence power of Slovenia and were responsible for many things that happened later, but that responsibility or co-responsibility was limited by the fact that they were the opposition. Liberal democracy was then an opposition and failed to prevent sufficient reinforcement of the defence power of Slovenia and Slovenia defended itself. A party to the modern centre is not an opposition; it is the party that has the most votes in this National Assembly in the history of this country and therefore has the greatest responsibility, and we appeal to it. I don't think we're gonna be too far behind, but anyway. Read, given that you are full of the mouth of the rule of law, Article 366 of the Penal Code in force in this country. This article states that serious crimes include the suspension of the necessary defence measures for the defence of the State. That's what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u18	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Chief of General Staff, colleague and colleague! The President of the Republic announced to the public at the time of the adoption of the report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces for 2015 that the Slovenian Armed Forces was at the lowest level of operational capacity. He therefore stressed the need to provide additional funding for its operation. In his written opinion, which he sent at the request of the National Assembly, he estimates, inter alia, that we must also take measures to improve the level of preparedness of the Slovenian Armed Forces in order to make international security conditions and our tasks worse. The recommendation we are discussing today originally covered four points. The first item calls for an additional €46 million to be provided for the Slovenian Army under this year's budget. They further propose to invite the Government to prepare a strategic defence review by July this year and to prepare an action plan for the establishment of a Central Battalion Task Force with final operational capacity by 2018. The original text of the recommendation also included an invitation to amend the entry conditions for the employment of the Slovenian Army, but this point of the recommendation with the amendment was deleted as the opinion of the Government had already been implemented and was therefore unnecessary. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the financial problems faced by the Slovenian Armed Forces, and we are also aware of savings in all areas, including wages, pensions and social transfers. And the defence department must unfortunately share the fate of stabilizing public finances. Nevertheless, we must draw attention to the change in the security situation in both the world and Slovenia as a result. I am thinking mainly of the threats of the Islamic State and many terrorist attacks in the heart of Europe, which affect the security situation in our country as well. For this reason, we must also be prepared in Slovenia and provide more resources for security purposes. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that financial resources for defence should be gradually increased. Nevertheless, in the Desus Group of the proposed recommendation on the parent committee, we did not support it; not because we thought that the Slovenian Army did not need any additional resources – how much it needed them. We have not supported the recommendations because, on the one hand, the requirements of the proposers in a given financial situation are not feasible, but also because the Government is already carrying out some of the activities to which it is called. In the Desus Group, we are counting on the opportunity to find additional funds for the Slovenian Army, for its modernisation, for investment and development when preparing the 2017 budget changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u20	Dear Vice President. Minister, chief, colleagues and colleagues! The reason for the item under consideration relating to the situation in the Slovenian Army dates back to March this year, when the Minister of Defence and Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces presented to the President, in accordance with the law, an annual report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces for 2015. On the basis of the report, the President of the Republic explained in his press release that he was obliged to report for the third consecutive year that the Slovenian Army was at the lowest level of cooperation. In its opinion forwarded to the National Assembly, it notes that this year this assessment has generated more interest from the public concerned than it has in the past two, three years. The reason for this greater interest in the situation in the Slovenian Army is certainly related to the events in the second half of last year, when a multitude of refugees rallied to the Slovenian border. In addition to members and members of police, voluntary and humanitarian organisations, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Directorate for Protection and Rescue and, of course, individuals from local communities also participated in the control of the refugee wave. Today's debate is also an opportunity to thank all those who have participated and are still involved in the resolution of the migrant crisis at our borders. In this case, the Slovenian army also acted well. It went beyond the bad statistics, which have been monitored since 2010, when the funds for defence expenditure have decreased to the point that we now have a third consecutive assessment of the lowest readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Speaking in the number language, the defence expenditure from 2010 to 2015 decreased from 583 million euros to 369 million euros. This is, of course, a huge percentage – 37% loss, which is impossible to cover in a year or two. It cannot be expected that this huge hole in the defence budget will be able to patch with the reverse process, as we have seen in the gradual cutting and tightening of the military through crisis years. It will be removed by force with systematic and integrated, I can also say the revitalisation of the Slovenian Army in all its segments. The mid-term defence programme for the period 2016-2020 is the first and fundamental step towards this objective, which will need to be further equipped with an operational plan. Social Democrats welcome the efforts made by the Minister of Defence to adopt the new Defence Act and the amendment to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. The Minister has shown great readiness for a substantive debate on the necessary changes with all political parties, which is crucial for long-term sustainability and, above all, the effectiveness of the proposals. It should be noted that, despite the apparent robustness of the Slovenian defence system and the Slovenian military, the mechanisms can be extremely sensitive so that they do not transfer the experiments. Especially if these are conditioned by political or ideological questions. Or else; short-term political victories can quickly turn into long-term professional and systemic executions. Nor will they help criticise and find the culprit, why the situation in the Slovenian Army is as it is if we are not able to take an honest look at Slovenia's overall public finances after the outbreak of the severe financial crisis. To this extent, no one has been prepared for this crisis, and the cuts in public finances in virtually all areas have not gone beyond the resources for the defence budget as well. Even more so, as the crisis from the initial so-called financial phase has increased into an economic and social crisis, the first measures have been geared towards mitigating the economic and social effects. Other areas, however, have remained in search of additional internal financial reserves and the play of certain programmes in the allocation of heavily deflated assets. If anything, it is common for all governments, after the start of the crisis, to have only several bad options available in relation to the budget. Thus today, there is no question of why the funds for defence have shrunk to this extent or to that extent if we do not ask ourselves at the same time what the withdrawal meant for the preservation of funds in another area or in another area. However, I am convinced that most of us, in general, on the notion of security probably worked differently seven or eight years ago than today, when security and security issues in Europe have changed in some way and are significantly more exposed. Whether it was our short-sightedness or putting the problems of the Slovenian Armed Forces at some better times or a deliberate decision with a sense of consequences, I do not know. However, I know and I am sure that with a little self-criticism, we are all aware that since the start of the crisis, we have often been faced with many rifts by the European Community in a desire to stabilise public finances as soon as possible. Not the ones you give more to, but the less pleasant ones, the more you take. As it is said, the security issue was far ahead of the issue of social security. Today, in the entire international community and also in our country, security becomes one of the first priorities. This opened the door wide on the issue of the readiness of the Slovenian Army. This new agenda has exposed something that has been on the table in the Slovenian Army for a long time. If you want, 25 years. There's no place for us to drool today. It is time, as the President of the Republic has pointed out, to take the necessary steps to reach political and professional agreement on measures to improve the readiness of the Slovenian Army. This consensus does not provide for improvements in the Slovenian Army in its own right, but creates an opportunity and, above all, an opportunity to take the necessary measures together. Measures that will not, in the first place, be intended to implement recommendations or opinions because others have imposed this upon us or are only guided by the obligations of our membership in NATO. To unify, or even better, we need to reawaken the knowledge that, in all the financial, economic and social issues of the crisis, has long gone too long, that the first and fundamental foundation of the country's security and sovereignty is its readiness. This security and sovereignty must, however, be maintained or ensured. With a lot of pessimistic pictures of the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it is not possible to draw parallels with the achievements which, despite the great financial deficit of the Slovenian Armed Forces in recent years, have also been realized, even when we look at the balance sheet of the previous year. Contributions were provided to NATO's response forces, maintained the scope of the Slovenian Armed Forces on international operations and missions, the multi-purpose Triglav ship deployed to international missions, helped civil protection in providing logistical support for the provision of migrants, supported the police in the wider protection of the state border, participated in 58 military exercises and could also be listed. The implementation of these and many other projects is thanks to the extraordinary willingness of Defence Minister Andreja Katič, who continues with the good work of Minister Janko Vebra. Thanks goes also to others who, despite everything and the great flaws, could direct the ministry's work, I can say, in the best possible way. There is also a great deal of gratitude to all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who, despite considerable human and technical malnutrition, are able and ready for challenging tasks. We must be proud of this, Your Honor, as well as of all the other irreplaceable members of our defence system, our firefighters, their self-sacrifice work, to our Civil Protection. Your Honor! Despite my belief that the well-intentioned recommendations to the Government regarding the situation in the Slovenian Army, prepared by the opposition and rejected on the Committee, I believe that today is a time when, and hopefully, we can speak the same language, both the opposition and the coalition. Rejecting recommendations should not become a ring of political struggle, what is right and what is wrong. In fact, we all agree that measures are needed in the Slovenian Army and that funds are needed in particular. I would be very happy to be able to reach out to the state minor and meet all the needs, not only the defence, but also the other sources. Unfortunately, though, there are few or very few. That's why we have two options. The first, less mature, and especially with great harmful potential, is that in the short term and without consideration, the funds are redistributed in a way — whoever comes first, the first grinds. Or worse, without considering it, there's a financial hole in each of the sectors by creating an even bigger hole in the other area. The second path, of course, is harder, but offers more sustainable solutions, especially more efficient solutions – with common agreement and with all the necessary measures, it is also necessary to draw and implement agreed and deliberate objectives, not only in short-term bridging of gaps, but also in medium- and long-term stabilisation measures and in upgrading the functioning of the Slovenian Army in all its segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u22	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! In the United Left, we do not support the proposed recommendations and I can narrow the reasons down to three points. Firstly, with the implementation of these recommendations, the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces will not improve at all. Secondly, the implementation of these recommendations would not significantly increase the defence capacity of the State. Thirdly, the cost of the planned measures is between €46 million and €50 million of additional expenditure on almost €350 million. In view of the fact that the Government and, in particular, the proponents swear to lower taxes, an additional 50 million could be obtained only by increasing public debt or by taking them away from other subsystems, which is unacceptable. According to the Ministry of Defence, the measures required by the applicants for this meeting would require an additional EUR 250 million over the next five years. If we add up to the usual annual budget of the Ministry of Defence, we will reach EUR 2 billion for military defence. According to our assessment, when the level of poverty is historically high and systems such as health care need to be literally resolved, such high expenditure is not acceptable. In particular, they are unacceptable because the government does not intend to increase public revenues. It plans to raise the rate of corporate income tax, which would bring an additional €90 million, but the government intends to eliminate these €90 million by tax reliefs of 10% of the best paid in the country. Allow me to give the reasons for the opposition a more detailed basis. Firstly, I think it is very clear to the members of the Slovenian Army and their relatives that the social situation of Slovenian soldiers will not improve even minimally as a result of the proposed measures. Not one cent of this 50 million will be spent to improve their salaries. Not a cent of this 50 million will be spent on finding employment for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces after 45 years of age. All this money would, on the one hand, be spent on purchases of weapons and equipment and on the other hand to promote employment in the Slovenian Army. I think this is about clearly underestimating members of the Slovenian Army. In any case, soldiers also need good technical conditions and equipment, but technical conditions can only be discussed when economic and social conditions are in place. These recommendations do not touch at all. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have serious social problems that cannot be affected by an increase in funding for the presentation and promotion of the profession. On the contrary, candidates for professional soldiers should be very frankly told that employment in the Slovenian Army is a pen. What exactly is waiting for professional soldiers? Soldiers are the only public servants who can't wait to be retired in their profession. Soldiers are the only civil servants who do not have the right to strike and with whom the Government does not have to conclude a collective agreement. The biggest problem, of course, is retirement. The soldier will terminate the contract when he reaches the age of 45, so he will have to work for at least another ten years until he retires. The contract doesn't even provide him with requalification, let alone a new job. Given the planned savings in the public sector, it is clear that soldiers will not be able to work in other parts of the public sector, at least not in large numbers. In addition, we forget that the Constitution also provides soldiers with free choice of employment. It is not fair, for example, to force them to become prison guards or other risky professions. I fear that for most soldiers, the most realistic option after 45 years will be the professions of security guard, driver and similar professions known for low wages and mass violations of labour rights. Slovenian soldiers need to be made clear that neither these recommendations nor the Government's medium-term defence plan nor the reformed Defence Act solve their social situation. In the medium term, a minimum wage increase is planned, but this increase will not be about raising wages, but about increasing the number of soldiers and reserve workers, provided that there are enough candidates. This is why we will not support the recommendations proposed. In the United Left, we also oppose the proposal because the proposed measures would not increase the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia. There are two reasons for that. The first reason is that the Slovenian Army is no longer adapted to the defence of the state, but to the needs of NATO. The Slovenian army is not a single force that could effectively take action against the enemy, but rather a set of specialised units that can only function within the larger NATO units. Let me just give you a few examples. The composition of the Slovenian Army includes the 18th Battalion for Nuclear, Radiological, Chemical and Biological Defence. More than 100 million euro has been invested in the construction. This battalion is one of Slovenia's contributions to NATO at the Corps level, i.e. at the unit level, which is significantly larger than the entire Slovenian Army. This means that such a unit for Slovenia is foreshadowed. Although this battalion can be used to some extent for civil protection, it is largely not the case. Furthermore, one of the largest military investments in recent years is the renovation of the airport Cerklje ob Krka. This is presented in public as a gift from NATO Slovenia, and in fact the investment for Slovenia and our military aviation is completely meaningless. The whole investment makes sense only for NATO, which uses such airports for its transport. Therefore, the absurd promises made by politicians that civil transport will take place in the Churches are absurd. Please; the political class that has just sold the airport of Brnik and is unable to establish regular traffic from Maribor airport now assures us that we will have air traffic in the Churches. Examples of such investments resulting from NATO's plans and for the defence of Slovenia are irrelevant are the whole species. The main objective of the medium-term defence programme adopted by this government is that 50% of the forces will be bridging, i.e. capable of operating outside Slovenian territory and 10% will be constantly operating in military operations abroad. The pompous middle battalion group is also dedicated to Nate, not to the real needs of the defence of Slovenia. The result of the development of our defence forces is defeated. If we subtract from the Slovenian Army units that specialize in working within the larger NATO units, we practically do not have operational units. In the latest issue of the Slovenian Army magazine, we can read the Director of the Defence Policy Directorate's assessment that the military is together only for the bad brigade. This suggests inefficient use of public money; this year the Ministry of Defence will spend 347 million to maintain this brigade, and we would like to increase it to 400 million. However, the United Left will not be involved in such a waste of public funds. Another major limitation of the defence capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces is that it is fully professional. In 2012, a doctrine of the strategic military reserve was issued, resulting from a very simple conclusion – the Slovenian Army is too small and inadequate to defend against a serious military threat. In addition, for the third year in a row, the President of the country found that even the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces did not meet the minimum expectations. The Ombudsman, Dr. Sveta, published a tweet with a very eloquent content: "The Slovenian army, with the exception of rare exceptions, is not capable of armed combat." Given that this year the ministry will still spend a good 347 million, it is clear that it is not so much a lack of resources, but an irrational use of resources. In the United Left we find that the Slovenian Army is at a crossroads. We think it is time for citizens to decide in the context of a democratic debate, perhaps even in the referendum which direction they should develop. The first option is what the Government and right coalition are proposing, i.e. I quote, "We don't need to change the concept, we need more money." In the United Left, we claim that this plan is doomed to failure. Our contractual reserve is clinically dead. On March 3rd, she had only 697 members on paper. I'm saying on paper, because at the last call, only 58% of the reservists responded. In doing so, it should be recalled that the standby reserves are paid an average of EUR 2150 per year. While we understand that they have problems with employers, we stress that voluntary firefighters also have problems, but our firefighting is not in any crisis, although it works on a voluntary basis of 90%. So it is evident that the reservists do not feel morally committed to such a concept of the Slovenian Army. It is also evident that the permanent composition cannot be restored normally; today, the permanent composition has 550 members less than in 2011. Each year, the average decreases by 138 members, despite the fact that unemployment exceeded the 1993 record in 2013 and is still record high. During these four years, the number of regular soldiers decreased by just one quarter. Given that the Slovenian Armed Forces have already received a negative assessment for action in the war, and only a sufficient assessment for action in peace, we can imagine what it means to continue these trends. It should be borne in mind that the real human resources problems of the Slovenian Army have not even started yet. Last year, due to the age of 45, only two members left the army and within a few years we will have 100 contingents. Even if we substantially increase wages, which the Government cannot provide, this massive outflow will not be replaced in the future. Therefore, before any decision on the purchase of new equipment and weapons is taken, a different solution should be decided. One solution would be the gradual abolition of the Slovenian Army. In this case, certain military tasks, such as anti-diversity or counter-terrorism, would be carried out by the police. The police should be trained and armed to do so in the same way as the former militia. The Intelligence Security Service would merge with the Owl and so on. Something in this direction was proposed by Dr Podbregar, former Chief of General Staff, and there is, of course, some rationality in this regard. It considers that Slovenia is significantly smaller than all neighbouring countries, which could threaten it militarily, so that there are very few possibilities in the overall military conflict. We would therefore limit ourselves to deterring minor, in particular non-military threats such as diversification, terrorism and the like. It seems to me that this described solution underestimates the self-defense capacity of our people. I don't believe that I would get the majority support of citizens, so there is a need for some kind of synthesis of the professional army and demilitarisation that would include the best of any solution. In Slovenia, a service as important as the fire service is based on volunteering. A professional fire department is designed for rapid response. Voluntary firefighters are called for greater and longer-term actions. A similar concept is also meaningful and tested in the field of military defence. Slovenia is not militarily threatened. In the last hundred years, she's been in real military danger only three times. Slovenia is not an imperialist country that would need a permanent army to intervene abroad, so it makes sense that it has a small professional core with a larger reserve, which acts as a means to deter military threats in peace and as a defence force in war. In doing so, I would like to remind you that the trend towards the abolition of the European recruitment forces has turned. In 2013, there were two referendums where Swiss and Austrian citizens decided to maintain the recruitment system. In Norway, they extended the military obligation to citizens in the same year. These are three developed countries with which we like to compare ourselves very much, which proves that the recruitment army is not an obstacle to the social well-being and comprehensive development of an individual. The abolition of the recruitment system in Slovenia, supported by all the regime's parties, was a typical populism move. At the first ball, the public liked it, but no one asked about it and now we have to pay for the drink. Experience in these countries shows the strengths of the recruitment army. It can be cheaper and significantly less sensitive to economic crises. Austria, for example, has a recruitment army and spent around 0.8% of GDP in the years leading up to the defence crisis and 1.4% of GDP in Slovenia. In doing so, the value of the Austrian army is inadequately higher than ours. The Austrian Defence Forces are an efficient and connected system, completely different from the Slovenian Army, which is only a collection of unrelated liaison units of NATO, incapable of defending its own national territory. The Austrian army has also survived the economic crisis significantly better. In our case, expenditure fell from an average of 1.4% of GDP to a good 0.9% and in Austria from 0.8% of GDP to 0.6. It is true that some rationalisations have been carried out in Austria, some small barracks have been abolished, but no one can say that the Austrian defence system is in crisis, while our army, with some exceptions, is not capable of armed combat on its own standards. The applicants also stated that they had called this meeting because the crisis of the Slovenian Armed Forces could have a significant impact on the security of citizens. The President of the Republic said that, due to the changed security circumstances, we need to increase security spending. At the same time, the applicants claim that other members of NATO are implementing measures for the security of Slovenia instead of us. I must stress the following in this regard. The Slovenian army is dedicated to the defence of the state territory against military attacks, and the security of the inhabitants is the responsibility of the police, who exercise this function very well despite malnutrition and regardless of the stings of the means. The refugee crisis has nothing to do with the personal security of our people and even less with the military defence of the state territory. Moreover, the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces in border control has proved unnecessary. It appears from the first monthly report that for almost a month there were an average of 133 soldiers on the ground who captured a single fugitive who did not resist and did not try to escape. This not only confirms that fear of refugees is completely depressed, but also points to an extremely poor assessment of two thirds of the National Assembly, and in particular of the Government. As regards the changed security situation, I stress that NATO's military threat has not increased. On the other hand, NATO and, in particular, the United States and Britain remain the greatest military threat to world peace. In particular, there is no basis for assessing that the military threat to Slovenia has increased. With the exception of neutral Austria, all neighbouring NATO Member States are clear that a potential military threat will come from within and not from outside NATO. According to our assessment, what the President of the State calls the aggressive policy of the Russian Federation, a response to the various orange revolutions that have brought nationalist and neoliberal governments to power in the former Soviet republics. Finally, I must point out that we are responsible for the defence of Slovenia alone and that the other members of NATO do not contribute to protecting Slovenia, but act solely in their own interest and in the interests of the imperialist countries. We citizens of Slovenia are not responsible for all the victims and exacerbations caused by the policy of our so-called allies in Ukraine, the Middle East and the South China Sea, and the resulting wave of refugees triggered by these activities and interferences in the affairs of sovereign countries. Therefore, only complete blinders can demand gratitude from our citizens for the quasi-defence measures that they say they are taking instead of us. In Slovenia, there are 300,000 people living below the poverty threshold; in order to resolve their distress, the government did not find funds to feed children below the poverty threshold. These measures will also not improve the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In the United Left, we assess Slovenia's position in real terms, in terms of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and in terms of equal relations between countries, so we will not support measures that have no connection with these interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u24	Hello! At least two things are important for each army — morality and equipment. You can still have such a good, strong morale, but without proper equipment, this high energy and morality of some military does not help us at all. And the problem we're facing today is equipment, technology, money. Of course, money is not everything, but it is very important to develop and maintain some state defence readiness. From 2010 until now, the practically defence budget has split; in nominal terms, this means that the military or defence budget is now less than €230 million. Where does this money that the military even has at its disposal go? 80% are wages, about 19% are operating and 1% are investment and development. However, some normal standard of countries around us is that 2% of GDP is allocated to the defence budget, including 50% for salaries, 30% for work and 20% for development and investment. The Slovenian army is far from here. This graph is very interesting and irrefutablely comparable to other countries, showing that the Slovenian Armed Forces, as far as the financial and funds we are earmarking for it, are practically the worst among us comparable countries and allies. Of course, these shares should be compared in percentages, this is important, not in nominal figures, because countries are different. I speak in percentages and in percentages. And if you look at this graph, you'll see that in the upper right quadrant there are those countries that allocate more than 2% of GDP for their defence budget and more than 20% for investment and development. And in this lower quadrant there are countries that allocate less than 2% and far less than 20% for investment and development. And if you look at where Slovenia is – practically in the worst place. I am not telling you this in order to display Slovenia negatively in any way, but to be aware of where we are in comparison with other countries. Because in Slovenia and within the Slovenian Army, a winged woman has emerged, "it will be, we will somehow get through these things and it will be better once in the future". But every thing ends once in a while. We all know that soldiers are underpaid or underpaid. And one of the key motivations that invited young people into the Slovenian Army were the challenges, were the missions, was the exciting work with the technology and equipment offered by the military. And if you now have a poorly paid force and a virtually poor technique and very few trainings, missions and the like, it certainly is not a good prospect for the future. In February, the Chief of Staff of the Defence Committee said that the Slovenian Army would need EUR 46 million of money immediately, not for some standard, but only to enable the existing systems it already has today to function as a force, so that only the tools we have operate and operate. He has also worked very closely on what these 46 million euros would be. And he doesn't think there's anything going on with the soldiers, because most of that money would go for the soldiers. Not in wages, because wages are also part of the public payment system, but for their equipment, their uniforms, their weapons, and so on, directly for the soldiers. What happened? Nothing. And sometimes in the opposition, it seems to us that we are just a man who cries in the desert and no one hears him. It's hard for me to understand that in such disclosures nothing happens. Mr. Struggle has no problem achieving more than 100 million raises. The police reached their goal; when the migrant crisis struck, money was found. How to find money for all other things, when the issue of the Slovenian Army comes up, nothing happens. We have been advocating all the time, and at least we have this critical voice in this house that these things need to be changed now, not tomorrow. Any individual who has already adapted at least one ordinary house or bathroom or living room knows that the longer the investment, the adjustment, the repair, the greater the damage. And there is something similar in the Slovenian Army. As long as we delay the system to push forward, greater force will be needed and more money will be needed. We have also proposed very specific political commitments. As you know, the problem with this house and the work of political parties is that they are very strong in words, but when there is concrete action, the matter is lame. And if I say the practice of the Defence Committee, where virtually everyone, even the coalition Members agreed that something must be done in this direction, when there was a concrete vote, where they would give me a political commitment to move things forward, there was no courage to do these things. We have proposed a realistic option, and this is a real possibility for the defence budget to rise. Not just tomorrow for millions, but every year for 0.1% of GDP until we reach 1.5 – not 2.5% of GDP – to make the defence budget so large. This seems to us to be a purely normal and fair political commitment. I also talked about where they would take this money from, because I understand that it is necessary to be honest in terms of public finances and to say that if you give money to someone where you're going to take it. We have also said that we see the opportunity and opportunity for these 46 million for the Slovenian Army on the side of ineffective subsidies, which come from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for more than 600 million euros. And here we would need concrete activities and actions, especially coalitions, because time is gone. The water is running down our throats and we need action. What's the point of all this? There has been a lot of heat and controversy in the sense that the opposition is taking advantage of this migratory wave and is now trying to take advantage of this thing. That's not true. It is true, however, that the security situation has changed significantly recently and that there is a much greater willingness on the part of people to invest in the defence system. If maybe four or five years ago they asked people if they were willing to put 50 or 40 million more into the defense system, they would ask a lot of people about health. Today, circumstances have changed because people are aware of all these international threats, terrorist threats, which also threaten Slovenia. We all act too often, like we're some safe balloon that can't happen to anything, and we're just watching it happen around us, and it's not going to happen to us. But things in the international community are extremely unpredictable. If we only use the Slovenian case from 1990 – how many people believed that an armed conflict was possible, and how they signed some petitions. And what was reality? If we did not then have our own armed forces, we would probably be part of another country today. If you were asked a few years ago whether there is a conflict in Ukraine, surely a large majority of us would say that we absolutely do not live in a peaceful, free Europe where such conflicts are no longer possible. If you look just a step closer to us — perhaps the Balkans, Bosnia — I am sure that there is still a pot under the cover under which it lays, and it is only a matter of time before something can happen. The Dayton Agreement does not work in practice; the country is in trouble, in many conflicts, certain Islamists radicalise. This certainly is not a good prospect for future security. I am not threatening or afraid that Bosnia or any other neighbouring country will attack Slovenia. I still don't think that's possible. I hope history doesn't deny me. I hope so much. I wish that wasn't true. But there is a greater danger that if we fail to provide some control by our defence forces, who is all coming into our country, and if we are not able to provide some sense of security in our larger centres, then this country is not best placed. What we propose in the opposition is clear. This is that each year the defence budget is increased by 0.1% of GDP. What the coalition proposes has been recorded in the medium-term defence programme. This is that nothing will change significantly in the coming years, nor will the funds increase significantly. Only greater investments will occur in 2019 when these governments are no longer in place for at least a year. It'll be too late then. And because of this, I hope that today's arrival of the President of the Republic has also aroused at least a handful of conscience with whom, but with future rebalancings and budgets, the coalition is also starting to pressure these things to change. Unfortunately, you have already overtaken all the recommendations on the Defence Committee today, so this debate is intended to discuss the exchange of views and see how someone thinks. However, this debate can be important in creating an atmosphere when new budgets are being drawn up to ensure an appropriate level of funding. Some of you have troubled the debate on the state of the Slovenian Army, if this is problematic, that we should not disclose all things and similar matters. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a free and democratic state. The days of Yugoslavia were over, and then there was a lot of cover-up. But if you look into the Western world, you can see that the Western world is talking normally about the readiness of their armies; the Germans are talking about how many planes are available and operational. It's like the British, the Americans. I see no problem in that we have revealed a bad situation in the Slovenian Army, but I see the problem that nothing is done or that nothing happens, that no action is taken, that things are not going in a different direction. The Allies know exactly what our situation is. Then I will be able to explain what our allies wrote about us. Perhaps someone will then think — they are not very nice words. We have two problems; one is moral, the other is financial. The moral problem will have to be solved primarily by the Slovenian Army; more will have to do to stop fighting officers, former JLAs and territories and to pull this train forward together. The financial problem is this house. This is our duty, and in this light it is necessary to strain all forces to make things move forward. And at least as far as New Slovenia is concerned, we will work all the time in this light and also work for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Here you go, the motioner has the floor, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have heard quite a few things; a few meaningful ones, especially a lot of meaningless ones, however. Many times it was said that this meeting was held because the assessment was not sufficient for the first time in history, because this happened at the end of March and that the opposition is constantly warming up discussions about the Slovenian Army. That's not true. The proof that this is not true is here more than 140 pages of articles, negative articles on the Slovenian Army in the last year since the position of Minister of Defence took place by Mrs Andrej Katič. More than 140 pages by not printing or duplicating articles when published on the same day. In short, your argument that only the position is that and that only the opposition sees problems where they are not sustained – more than 140 pages of negative articles about the Slovenian Army or would not say negative, I would say those that show the real situation. Later on, I will also introduce two people who will be very much in front of each other. And this is an interview by the Deputy Chief of General Staff, General Alan Geder, who was published in Siol, and for which General Geder had to plead with the Minister. And the second interview will be by Mr Primož Šavc, Director of Defence Policy, who, in an interview with the Slovenian Army, said a number of things that he had not previously hoped for when he was in position, but now he is going to Montenegro and he has apparently only set the time for some to set the mirror. Well, it's probably been done before, and that's why he has to go. As far as the expenditure on defence budgets is concerned. In 2004, when the first government of Janez Janša came into power, it was an army of 277 million euros. When Janša's government left the post, the military had about EUR 520 million. So, in 4 years, Janševa's government spent 250 million more on the army in the then first government. For weapons, for equipment, for the state itself in the Slovenian Army, the most has been done so far. After the then coalition under the leadership of the SDS stepped down, it has dropped by 250 million euros to date. So today we are at 263 million euros. Three years of the government of Borut Pahor, the year of the government of Janez Janša, the year of the government of Alenka Bratušek and two years of the government of Mir Cerar. This is the result of how you work with financial resources, who gives, who takes. This part, of course, does not go primarily – it was necessary to make differences in the light of the financial crisis – but, however, the President of the Government, the Finance Minister, does not miss the opportunity, not in the questions of the Members of Parliament, nor anywhere else, to say how the economic situation is improving now. The fact that Dr. Marble's finance minister is at least so correct that he can tell us why. Due to pension reform, labour market reform, because of Zuyf and balance – it is said that Zuyf has introduced a balance of public finances. These measures boast around, but they do not, of course, say who did. On May 15th, the celebration of the Slovenian Army will be held in Križanka in the evening. Who knows how old the Slovenian Army is? Apparently, the Slovenian Army doesn't even know who sent the invitation. 25 years of the country — 25 with you already — wrote something like that on the invitation. This is said to some to think that the Slovenian Army is 25 years old. True, the Slovenian Army is not 25 years old, the Slovenian Army is not as old as our country, because if it were as old as our old country, then probably we wouldn't have a country. Because if the Slovenian Army were formed on 25 June 1991, I don't know how to defend myself. The Slovenian Army – and here we also have a letter from the then chief of MSNZ, where he explains why he will not attend Sunday night’s celebration – is 26 years old. One year older than the state. Its birthday is May 17th, at the time of the establishment of the Manevre National Protection Structure. That Manevre structure of national protection, whose coat of arms now General Andrej Osterman wears right here in the hall on his right shoulder, with pride. Because he's also a veteran because he was a member of the MSNZ at the time. And he obviously knows that the Slovenian Army is 26 years old. Some senior officers in the Slovenian Army do not know that. In her explanation, the minister responded or somehow served with three measures. However, before taking these measures, there will be no uncertainty about the financial resources, particularly by the Modern Centre Party, when the representative of Dolinšek said that the Government of Mir Cerar had stopped the trend of falling funds for the Slovenian Army. No, the funds for the Slovenian Army were still EUR 300 million in 2014 and EUR 263 million in 2015. You probably know for yourself whether it's a fall or a jump up. So he doesn't. For this year, nominal funds are increasing by EUR 5 million, that is true, but the point is different. We have transferred these €5 million from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Defence and have charged the Ministry of Defence not only for five, but for a plus €2.5 million more to pay international membership fees to international organisations. This was also said to be a lie, as the SMC representative said this year too, compared with last year's funding for the Slovenian Army decreased by EUR 2.5 million. The nominal increase of 5 has increased, but the obligations have increased by 7.5. And paying for international membership, what he was saying here, does not contribute to any better fighting readiness of the Slovenian Army. I would like to ask that we no longer say in the debate that the government of Mira Cerar has stopped the downward trend, because it has not stopped it in the balance sheet for 2014 or stopped it in the balance sheet for 2015 or increased it for 2016. This is called three times, three attempts – two rebalances and one budget, the funds continue to fall. For 2017, there is an increase of €2 million, but we know how it will be with GDP; it is growing, which means that GDP will continue to decline. It then has three evaluation criteria; the first is participation in missions; the second is the defence budget relative to GDP; and the third is the defence budget structure. As far as the defense budget is concerned, we know we're falling. The commitment in 2014 was to reach 2% of GDP for defence in 2020. We're currently at 0.94%. If GDP rises – we know that defence funds do not grow as much as GDP – this percentage is still lower. So, the first rating criteria, let's burn on the whole line. Second evaluation criterion. As I said, the structure of the defence budget – NATO's golden rule: 50 : 30 : 20. 50 for salary, 30 pending cases, 20 maintenance. Where are we? For maintenance of 1%, for wages over 80%. And now we fall on this second criterion. Then the third criteria, where Slovenia was somehow respected, did not hear any major negative assessments. In accordance with its powers, Slovenia has performed its tasks in international operations and missions. We paraded mainly in Kosovo, that was our triumph. Even now, we're downgrading our presence because there's no money. We're 50, we're gonna be what, twice as 50 in the future? Shall we go from 290 to 190? Even where we were somewhere, if I call it above average, for example, for Kosovo for other missions, we are digging ourselves a pit by lowering our participation. And it's no wonder that then he gave a rating of Slovenia, just like he gave it. Not only the Commander-in-Chief of the Defense Forces, but also NATO. Inadequate, burdensome alliance, irrelevant partner – this is us for NATO. I hope something will change next week; next week we have a meeting at Bled with General Gorence. Even earlier, as I am aware, General Gorenc will have a conversation with Prime Minister Cerar. I hope something will happen, but our prime minister has already proved several times – through one ear inside, through another ear out. Last year, when Secretary-General Nata Jens Stoltenberg arrived in July, the President of the Government promised him: "A budget is being prepared for the next two years, in 2016 the decline will stop and then after 0.04% of GDP up". It didn't happen. I don't know what kind of prime minister you have to be, obviously you don't give anything to your honor, in your name, to lie to the public, to lie to the other heads of government. And I hope that he will be asked some questions on July 8th and 9th in Warsaw, if he goes there at all. Then we adopt the SOPR, the Medieval Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2016-2020, where we write: "The drop in the share of defence expenditure in GDP stopped at 0.91% in 2017." It is said that we are currently at 0.94%, in SOPR you write: "The drop in the share of defence spending in GDP will stop at 0.91% in 2017." Give me all those you told today that the government of Mira Cerar is the first to stop the fall in expenditure, to tell me how you stopped the fall in expenditure, but if you are in the Mid-term Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted two months ago in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you will only write that you will. Something doesn't work out here. Either some have not read the SOPR or it is intentional deception. In short, citizens and citizens know – the Mira Cerar government has not stopped the fall in defence spending despite the improvement of the economic situation, and continues to commit this suicide in crisis situations. And then it goes on to say, "From 2018 to 2020, the share of defence spending in GDP will gradually increase to 1.03% of GDP." 2018-2020, what period is this already? This is the time when the government of Mira Cerar will no longer be. It puts the responsibility on the next government. From 2014 to 2018, you are unable to take responsibility for security and are therefore gravediggers of our national security and defence system. It goes on to say, "On average, defence spending will increase by around €35 million between 2017 and 2020, reaching €478 million, which is 104 million more than in 2017." So it doesn't stop, it doesn't stop, it doesn't stop like you promised, but it goes up in the next government. Again, just one paragraph forward, and I would ask the Minister to reply to this: "In 2020, the ratio of staff costs, operational costs and investment costs will be 67 :18:15, which represents a shift towards a target ratio of 50 :30:20." Right now, we've got 80% to pay. It now says that by 2020, it will be reduced by 67% in three years. Now I just want to know, are we going to, but, lower wages for those we already have in the system, or are we going to, b, forgive those we have in the system? Given that on the previous page you write: "At the end of the medium-term period, the scope of the Slovenian Army will be..." this is the case in 2020 "... amounted to up to 9 thousand members, of which 7 thousand 600 permanent and a thousand 500 spare units." Once again, it is a direct commitment in SOPR, which is not feasible for you to have 600 soldiers of permanent composition more and at the same time that 13% will go down for salaries. In short, here's something that doesn't go together and something has been written again to put on paper, to send to NATO, to see that we've done something. I will repeat myself here, as did the Minister of the Defence Committee. As the main measures, it stated: for the first time, there is a strategic review of defence, secondly, new normative documents, and thirdly, that a set of NATO capacity targets is to be developed. My question is, how, in particular, will all of this help to improve the assessment from insufficient to act in war, says, for restless action? So, we're gonna do a strategic defense review, O.K., that's great, we should have done that a long time ago. The secretary went after him, that's commendable. We'll see what we're up against. Second, new normative documents. Thus, we have adopted a new SOPR, now we have on the table the Defence Act; I think that this order should be just replaced, so that the analysis is first done and then it is going to change. However, the Minister herself said that on the basis of this strategic review of the defence, we would then go to the novel of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. And we have told you this many times – until, when we talk about the social situation of soldiers, until the Slovenian Army is excluded from the salary system of public servants, we expect positive changes, because we take the army as public servants. Someone who teaches, a teacher – with all due respect to them, an important job they do in this country – simply cannot be compared to someone who goes to the border at night to Poček, to education, to training and so on. In short, documents for documents, documents for the National Assembly, for Nate's sake, because of other international organisations that will not be followed. Just for comparison, the battalion fighting group, there was a lot of talk about it. We agreed in Parliament that we would have such vehicles; instead of caterpillars, imagine bicycles. Short, strong armor, 30-millimeter cannon. And what are we now doing with the middle battalion fighting group? With this. With Valuki on the side, it's already pierced by a 12.7-millimeter machine gun with a machine gun on it. No firepower, nothing. In fact, the minister said earlier that this battalion fighting group, which is being built to limit fire support. Fire support is essential to the battalion's fighting group. With what are we going to do now, with these out-of-date Valukas, to make this battalion battle group, with which we can bring the soldiers, Mr. General, to where? 600 meters before the battlefield. With this up to V just battle, right there. [[…]] In short, this is what we wanted to buy; Parliament said we would buy it, not the caterpillar, but the wheel, it was the Swaruns, Patrie, and now we're doing it, the obsolete equipment. Then he counted on it. We said we wouldn't have one of those groups, we'd have two, so not 60, but 135 Patri. The allies were counting on it, and we didn't do it. We didn't do it, and that was a deal 12 years ago. And don't say that you can't do that in two years, because some of the documents aren't finished yet, because that's supposed to be it. If the government intended to do so, it would be done in two years. With money, with training, with documents — not that they are now being prepared, but they should be done by now. In short, so much for what normative documents we will accept and how much will then be held. And the third point the minister was talking about is the NATO target capacity package, a new one. O.K., I wonder if, again in the sense that it was designed, let's say, when they were counting on our battalion fighting group to make another commitment, and then in three or four years we'll find that we can't do it, and again in NATO, another country will have to take care of this manna. And that's exactly what Mr. Janša used to say. Article 5 of this Treaty already states that the attack on one attack on everything and on collective defence. But if we don't defend ourselves, and according to the equipment, we can't, the Dutch will come. Why would the Dutch come to the Norwegians and come to someone who doesn't even meet certain commitments? In short, even from this third measure, which the Minister has highlighted, we will not have much. The parliamentary group, which is most responsible for the situation as it is, especially in financial terms, this is said to be the modern centre Party Something has already been answered, however. Opening discussions and pressure on the government to be the object of the opposition. Before you were gone, Mr Dolinšek – 140 pages of articles on the Slovenian Army, which say how worrying the situation has been in the last year. Thus, we have taken over more than 140 pages of the articles since Minister Andrej Katič took over the Ministry of Defence. It is said that these articles were not written by the opposition; in Vecer, Dnevnik, Del, on the national, POP TV, the Planet does not write articles by the opposition. There are interviews with various experts, with Morse representatives, with representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces, pointing out this situation. In short, tell them that the press is exerting pressure. That we want to show the situation worse than I think the situation as shown by the President of the Republic is real and it's hard to show worse and it's also here not issuing any classified data because you're going to Google, write Military Balance and you'll get information about the countries the weapons have, how many individual weapons systems they have and so on. [[…]] The data that the President of the Republic has not talked about are in here and are very talkative – the completeness of the Slovenian Armed Forces in relation to the medium-term programme has decreased by almost 15% from 2011 to 2015. O.K., the government of Mira Cerar – 2015 change with respect to 2014, total minus 121; what negative trend have you already stopped? Completeness of the contractual reserve, change from 2014 to 2015 – minus 419, which is minus 37%; again, you cannot say that you have stopped the negative downward trend. Total change in 2015 to 2014, this is the total composition – minus 540, which is minus 6.4. And then we write in SOPR that we're going to have 7 thousand 600 and a thousand 500 spares, in short, 9 thousand 100 members. I'm glad you wrote this, I'm glad the SD secretary wrote it because it's a party whose wet dreams have always been to have 5,000 or less soldiers. Thank God, at least this crisis has now shown that we cannot get through with such a number, because we have had problems with such a number now, so at least here you have learned something. Let's move on. What's even more worrying is the realization of exercises. 2014 – 67 planned exercises implemented 47. 2015 – 82 planned, implemented 58. The funding for the exercise was 2 million 100, you spent a million 600. So there was some money for the exercise, that wasn't spent. Moving on, shooting skills. Total number of bullets fired, including 12.7 millimetres. In 2011 there were 618 per year members, 2014 was 441, 2015 was 323. That is to say, in one year of your government, you have reduced the firing skills of soldiers from 441 to 323 bullets fired, virtually for a quarter. But that's how you stopped the trend of falling into the military? Financial resources for Slovenian Armed Forces education; in 2014 million 800, in 2015 million 600. How did you stop the financial downturn in the Slovenian Army? No, look, we're talking about numbers, numbers that are official numbers on the one hand and on the other hand about your manipulations, how you stopped the downward trend. No, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't. Moving on, vehicle status. Number of vehicles in the Slovenian Army, currently 2156. Vehicles with life expectancy in 2015 – 738. And watch it now. Vehicles with life expectancy in 2017 – 927. This is said to have had 2156 vehicles, up to 2017 1665 vehicles less. 280 combat vehicles, in 2017 50 less. What else are they gonna ride with? I don't know. And the Jeep in the hands of the AK, that's obvious what? Safari variant. Will this be the Slovenian Army? He's lying again, that you've stopped the downward trend. You're not, not in financials, in other areas. And now I seriously ask you; 2017 shows how with the defence budget, 2017 will nominally be 2 million more. Probably some other international membership from where it was transferred. Seriously, I'm asking you, how are we going to replace these combat vehicles and the rest of the vehicles that are going to be practically more than half the size of them? Not to mention the condition of aircraft. Bell helicopters, 12 helicopters. When does their life span run out? Eight 2019 and four 2020. End of rescue in Slovenian mountains. End of rescue in Slovenian mountains, also for the civilian population. So you'll stop the downward trend? Do you know how much one helicopter costs? Crate 4 has to count anything else that comes along. The price of one times four. This will not be the 32 million or how much you will devote in 2018. Will you buy something for that money? One propeller, I don't know. [[…]] In short, I'm afraid everything you've said can't hold. It does not withstand the reality and does not endure what our citizens and citizens deserve, and not least what members and members of the Slovenian Army deserve. It is sad that you come with the SOPR to Parliament to accept it in the Government and in the same debate as we are discussing the SOPR, the Chief General of Staff says that the Slovenian Army needs 46 million more to survive. In the same session. And that's what Chief General Staff is saying, now there's a couple of meetings, and I'm not surprised you're already looking for the successor of Chief General Staff. The problem is that SMC and Desus have one candidate, that candidate is not acceptable to SD, is looking for another, or probably already has one. This will be answered by the Minister next time. I think someone else should step down, not the Chief of Staff who points out these matters. If there's no money, there's nothing he can do. It cannot improve the situation in those elements I spoke about earlier. No, but you will replace this chief, you will give one who retires in two years, two years from now the Chief of Staff will change again, every two years the Chief of Staff will change; the military needs peace, needs someone who will be there for five years or at least one term of government. You did the same thing with the Director of the Owl. You did the same thing with the Director of the ODS. You did the same thing with the police director. By replacing the ODS director so that the SD party could use it for its own political purposes, the Minister of Defence also flew away. But that's how it works in our country. You've headed the entire national security system, and the consequences are what they are. Desus – 2017 will be an opportunity for improvement. Yeah, great. But did you read the SOPR, or did you look at the budget? What chance of improvement? It will not improve because there is no improvement in the financial resources; the budget needs to be looked at. But at least I've heard what I always hear: "We know that the situation is as it is, we know that it needs to be corrected, but we have rejected your recommendations because we cannot implement them right now." The United Left would not be at all, because Mrs Tomić does not separate what the Corps is or what a division is or what a brigade is. I heard for the first time today that we have a JRKBO Corps in Slovenia. There are several divisions in the Corps, so I don't know if we have 60,000 members and members of the JRCBO. As far as I'm concerned, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Prikl, please, if you can be quiet, then you'll have your chance. But as for this, when she exposed Switzerland and Norway; she probably doesn't know how. Norway is a member of NATO, Norway also has a professional army. But again, Switzerland is not a billboard army, but a completely different concept called the concept of an armed citizen, where citizens even have weapons at home that they get when they serve the army. But if we suggested that, perhaps the United Left would even jump into the air to enforce the amendment from the American Constitution, the right to carry weapons. So I'm not even gonna answer those mixed-ups. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much, very much. Good day, nice hello to you all! I'll try to be as short as possible, dynamic as possible, direct as possible. I will avoid making an assessment of who has been guilty in recent years and who more because, as far as I know, of the six parliamentary parties here all but one have had the opportunity to lead the country. And we know how unacceptable this has been to the topic recently when we urge citizens to increase their defence budget. But circumstances have changed. It would be naive to say that we should not and should not pay any attention to this issue. The President of the Republic and the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Borut Pahor, said that we are at the lowest level of readiness during the period, but also stressed that we are not directly at risk. Why am I bringing this up? Because it makes sense for me to frame our debate into some real assessment of the situation so as not to blow up or inspire the circumstances in which we are in. True, some see that safety is not sufficiently taken care of and others are. Let me mention, the Slovenian Army has indeed been forced — and I think very well in recent years and months — to cause certain transfers. It was necessary to find some niche activity in which even our allies in some way praised us. But above all, I would like to point out that, as far as security is concerned, only certain movements have been made at the Second Ministry, the Ministry of the Interior. Why am I bringing this up? Because I expect from the government that we will gradually be able to raise the second item, the Ministry of Defence. Social Democrats are not only concerned with defence security, but we are also concerned with social, health or accessibility, the security of accessibility to public education. It's hard to find the right balance in these difficult times. But it is true, as I have said in the introduction, that such a problem would not have come to the attention of the public if, in the last year, they had not been witnesses to exceptional circumstances that had not started in the last year, but, rather, significantly earlier. The family in which we are, I am talking about Nate, at least when we are talking about this European armor, North Africa, the Middle East or the East, is often not clearly defined — whether it is a fireman or a fireman. Why am I saying this? In particular, because I am encouraging a debate on a redefinition of the NATO mission itself. But let's leave it for another occasion. Geopolitics are changing dramatically. At least since 2001, when we started fighting terrorist attacks with our allies, and with the financial crisis in 2008, 2009, circumstances have changed and the defence budget has not followed because we have followed some other ambitions and we have not felt so threatened. Let me just mention that our immediate neighbours – Croats, Serbs, to the greatest extent, Poles – have been armed in the last period. We know they're increasing then units on the eastern border in relation to Russia. It is said that certain circumstances that require some new answers are different. But hand to heart, whether we have one or another form of vehicle, I think it will be difficult for anyone to defend us in the event of a conflict. I agree, however, that we must be sufficient to meet the challenges ahead of us and especially those we have experienced in the last few months. Nate's family is somehow shaping everything, reshaping it to the point where we don't know what its role is. We only know the vague definition of the role in the Aegean Sea when the migration crisis arises. But I don't want to go into another debate. Someone mentioned that we're becoming an irrelevant partner within the NATO Union. I cannot confirm this, because if it comes first – and always has to happen first – the time of diplomacy, Slovenia, at least when we talk about the nearby region, we are always talking about the Balkan region, we always have an important role to play, especially in the form of a mediator between the different, so far verbal conflicts. To conclude, the Ministry of Defence has tried to fulfil its mission by redistributing and, above all, by seeking some niche forms of action, according to its capabilities and abilities. However, it is certainly necessary to strengthen the awareness that in the near future this financial part of the Ministry of Defence will also need to be strengthened in some proportion to other benefits such as health, social and education and other important goods that are most important to our citizens at this time. Thank you. So far, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u30	Thank you. Just two things. That Slovenia is an irrelevant partner, these are not the words of the opposition, these are the words composed by NATO's group, the report of NATO's group when they were just here on this regular review. However, as regards the fact that Slovenia is not directly threatened by the military, I agree. But it was said earlier, even in our client’s position — even in early 1991, it was not directly militaryly threatened, but six months later aggression was carried out. But this is all about the threat. Here's a great collection, comes out every year, a barometer conflict. This one's from last year. This is a demonstration of the conflicts that took place last year. You say what's black. Here they divide conflicts according to the intensity of the violent and non-violent. But the violent are divided into wars, and the war with limited duration, and only armed conflicts. In short, black and dark blue colors are practically all over Africa, which only proves that conflicts will continue, that they continue and that these conflicts are only generating crowds and crowds of refugees and migrants. And last but not least, the Middle East, the East. And probably a lot of things say the fact – not only the arms race, but also the movement of units across Russia, across Europe. America, or NATO, said three days ago that she would send two brigades to the Baltic. This was followed by Russia's response with three divisions by the end of the year to the east and the south border. In short, there is no immediate threat, but I cannot agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the word to prepare Dr Laszlo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Gregory, we have a problem. Gregory, we have a big problem. This is today a message from the opposition New Slovenia and the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party of Slovenia to the Slovenian government in Gregorčičeva, Ljubljana, of course. Of course, this communication is about a major defence budget problem. And, of course, we also have a few paradoxes. The feeling is that today the opposition New Slovenia and SDS are the only ones on the side of the Supreme Commander of the Slovenian Armed Defence Forces, Mr. Borut Pahor, and that the opposition parties of Nova Slovenija and SDS are the only ones on the side of the Minister of Defence, whom I welcome very much between us, and, of course, on the side of the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army, Dr. Andre Osterman, whom I also welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two months, we have quite a few board meetings and, of course, also the National Assembly, where we hear from the coalition: "I would have, but no, not so much, not so much, we would have, but, but...". Even before the day of adoption, a decision which I can also read so that the Government cannot listen to the debate at the joint meeting of the two committees – that I am specific to invited guests, that I am even more specific, to the representatives of farmers – when the Government is making a very important law. I'm tired of this political squabble and this political squalor. I'm really sorry. And don't say that there is no money; if there are two ice cream chips for some layer of people per month, if it is found for Mr Struklj 200 million, then there must be 46 million, which we are talking about, which is also discussed by the Minister and Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and opposition New Slovenia and SDS. It has to be found. Remember that we had a referendum in this country on 23 March 2003 on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO. Approximately one million voters came to vote and two thirds, the constitutional majority could say two thirds of the voters said "for" Slovenia's accession to NATO. Those who are at least a little democratic must take this decision into account. This decision must be taken into account, although we also have several discussions today, right now on democracy, about the state of democracy in Slovenia. And now, logically, I'm moving on. It was very logical and necessary that this decision for Slovenia's accession to the relationship Then, last July, we also wrote here a declaration on Slovenian foreign policy. About Slovenian foreign policy. Although we do not have a strategy, we do not yet have a strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, but thank God we have a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and also a strategic document adopted by the Government. And when we adopted the declaration of foreign policy, we placed it in the framework they set out in substance and time: a quarter of a century of independent, independent, democratic states of the Republic of Slovenia, a decade of membership in the European Union and in the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty – NATO, the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, the anniversary of the adoption of the Helsinki Final Charter on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations and the anniversary of the end of World War II and the beginning of World War I. And we have taken into account that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have decided, with a large majority, to become a member of the European Union, which for the Republic of Slovenia represents a fundamental value and a political framework for ensuring prosperity and fundamental rights, as well as membership in NATO, which constitutes a fundamental framework for ensuring national security. But that, of course, gives rise to obligations. It's not just some cosmetics, it's not a decoration to decorate with, it's an obligation. Of course, we also have the benefits from this title, from membership in relation to NATO. The priority areas and areas of foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia are also: upgrading Slovenia's presence in the Western Balkans; active support for the enlargement of the European Union and NATO – while meeting the conditions of course, in particular the rule of law – and strengthening the visibility and role of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO, as a fundamental framework of national and European security; strengthening transatlantic cooperation based on common values and mutual interests; and combating terrorism and extremism, including by addressing circumstances that create fertile soil for extremism. We've written this in a declaration, a document that's not even a year old. Of course, we will be talking about this issue, which we are talking about today, I hope of a month in June, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said when we will consider, in accordance with the declaration, the report of the Government or the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, an assessment to the National Assembly on the development of international relations and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community. Yeah, before, a German colleague said we weren't at risk. Yeah, right. Today at 3:45, we're really not at risk, thank God. What about tomorrow?Oh, my God! But the President of the Republic, Mr Pahor, in his report, presents a very analytical assessment of the risks and risk factors. Here it exposes low economic growth and the risk of recurrence of recession. This is what the International Monetary Fund is talking about – the possibility of a recurrence of recession – as well as other similar institutions. Interestingly, the President of the Republic also highlights the aggressive policy of the Russian Federation. I'm not going to talk about how the Russian Federation is arming itself, see, and know what the appetites of the Russian Federation are, see. And remember, the Russian Federation will obviously put its stake in Slovenia this year, in Ljubljana, where it will clearly show where its impact is. That's what this is about. Come in. Of course, here's the so-called. Islamic state and instability in the Middle East and North Africa. Here are climate change and, of course, there is the Western Balkans and South-Eastern Europe. And, of course, there are also hybrid risks, which the question, if we give them this budget, the defence budget, as we have it today, is at all. And it's not true that NATO doesn't know what to do, how to, how to sometimes put out the fire, like my predecessor said, but sometimes even set it on fire. Then, at the time of its existence – let me remind you, the treaty was signed on April 4, 1949 – adopted 7 strategic concepts. Four during the Cold War and three after it ended. And the new strategic concept was adopted in November 2010 in Lisbon; I suggest that you read it, colleagues and colleagues. And let me conclude with a proposal from New Slovenia. Aware of the financial, public financial situation we have here, we suggest that the defence budget rises by only 0.1 percentage points per year of gross domestic product, up to 1.5 [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz, to prepare Mr. Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, Commissioner-General, colleague and colleague! Without being dramatic, because I believe that this does not lead anywhere, however, we can assess that, given the implementation of the President of the Republic and on the basis of the positions taken by the leadership of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also by the Ministry, the situation is unfortunately very worrying, as regards the situation in the Slovenian Army. But the very conclusion would not be so terrible if we were aware of, otherwise, the whole bad situation as far as this society is concerned. In fact, for free, we are making such or different commitments today that we will change things if we are aware that practically in all the systems that are important for this society – from education, the pension system, the health system and so on, we are not talking about bank holes – the situation is extremely difficult. So that's why only the findings I think are not enough. Nevertheless, we need to assume that security matters have changed significantly and that today's words, regardless of where they come from, should not be merely a formality. So it must indeed be the real commitment of the entire political sphere to move things forward for at least the smallest possible percentage in this area. I'm not going down here right now, like the preface did, to some extent, because I'm not an expert in this area, so I can assess it. But there is no doubt that these steps, which have been very vividly presented today in the introductory debate, need to be taken today. So we cannot talk about 2018, 2019, 2020 and so on, but in practice with the following financial year, one way or another. I am aware, as I said before, that other systemic problems will not make this decision easy, but virtually without this, without this decisive intention, the executive branch will not move the matter. In doing so, we should be united, and I see in this unification the important consensus that the President of the country has been talking about. I regret to say, however, that when I listen to this debate, unfortunately I still do not see this consensus, and that is why I am to some extent sad. In the end, let me say two more things. Firstly, if we want to take the upgrade of the system, so the military system, seriously, we cannot approach things as we have done in the past. I'll give you one very illustrative example. We have also dealt with it; as we have changed the proposed budgets with various amendments, we have most often resorted to a reduction in the field of the Slovenian Army General Staff. So if we're going to do this in the future, all of us, of course, then perhaps our intention for some sincere system upgrade will not be right. Of course, this is a very small drop, it will not be solved, but I am merely symbolically warning that such an approach is not going anywhere. And another thing I'd like to mention. I am also somewhat dissatisfied - and I also express here the position of my fellow Member, Mr Battelli - that, in such discussions or after such discussions, at least some of the principled decisions should undoubtedly be taken. It is therefore not right to seek consensus, for procedural reasons, for any other reason, at least by adopting some basic policy intentions, so that this matter actually begins to resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister, the Chief of General Staff, everyone else! So, yeah, there's a lot of hypocrisy, and there's a lot of hypocrisy about this topic. We heard each other, and the objections are diverse. As my colleague Jean would say, we are gravediggers of the Slovenian Army If we are gravediggers – SMC, it is said – then I wonder what all the parties and governments have done before; then they are united undertakers d. o. o. or something similar. But let's just leave it. As for this talk about how Slovenians we are, we are such that we know how to die by ourselves, and this is also the case with the Slovenian Army. Jani, colleague Jani said yesterday that until the bullet we told you exactly how and what is with our army, we like to hang it on a big bell. This bell sounds not only in Slovenia but also throughout Europe. And O.K., it's the same; if we're in a country like this, that's the right thing to do. However, I have listened with interest to Mr Janša, whom I consider to be a great acquaintance, and I have noted his thought, where he said that, unfortunately, within one term, these finances cannot be saved as they are now and at this moment. Perhaps I would return with that initial idea of hypocrites and hypocrisies on the first speaker, called Mr. Pahor. If my memory doesn't deceive me – and I don't have a big, so to speak, political memory – it was in 2010 that he made the largest and most enormous point in the Slovenian Army, that is 110 million, which is not a small number. This trend is virtually impossible to resolve in such a very short time. However, I agree with Mr Pahor that political consensus must be found. I think there is political consensus here between us, but the question is how to come to a real solution to this problem that has accumulated and has actually accumulated since 2000, if not later. Mr Pahor also mentioned the right proportion of measures; I think that, regardless of what the other side will say, this government has taken a few steps because it has shown that it has one, I will say, a responsible attitude to security. Why am I saying this? This government has, I will start with the police, so to speak, added 30 million in 2015 and 2016 to the police. And here she took one big step further from all previous governments. Also, this government – let us leave, think about – has achieved that 8.66 million euros have been added to the military as well. And not only for the military, but also for participation in Euphoria, it is said, our battleship Triglav, but in Mali and in aiding the fight against Daes. So, in addition to all the funds it has, this has been further resolved and given. As for the commitments; earlier there was a speech, Mr Tonin had earlier said that our government, too, as SMC, we do not have the courage to make a commitment. I think that the government of Mira Cerar – and thus indirectly us – has made a commitment and has made a clear commitment that, from 2017 to 2020, this GDP for defence will rise to 103, this is a clear and loud commitment. Of course, the wish of all of us would be that it would be even bigger and better, but, as Mr Pahor said, with some true proportion of measures and according to our resources and given that we are not harming the social essence of this country, I think this is the right approach. The matter of views from all sides I take all, but this proportion of measures and according to the given means and resources I think it is one relationship that is worth greeting. [[…]] Jean can speak very, very interestingly, he's a very good speaker, but he always uses this data in a way that makes it more or less negative. I'll go different. So, in SOPR on page 43, where the projection of the movement of defence expenditure – you can look at it, Jean, so we can debate more easily – it is obvious that if we look at nominal figures, the real 2014 is 366 written, 2015 is 367, 2016 is 375, 2017 is 374, and then 2018, which is 407, but we will not go any further. So, actually, it's this day, it's a step towards stopping this fall, this government's commitment has been made. And that's what they say by percentage if you want to see if that's it. Of course, what you said and when you did it, that is, what Mr Pahor wrote or handed over to Mr Pahor All these tables that have been given – of course we are in a negative trend, but this trend is within the system itself, and we have talked about, say, the movement of a nominal percentage of GDP. We can get married, so we can do this ping-pong, but it's not that, because we both know each other. I would also like to return to Mr Tonin, who showed this graph, which Mr President also presented on page 30; otherwise Tonin had it in blue and beautiful color in A3 format, but I have it in black and white. What Mr Tonin forgot to say; if we look at this line, it's called a vertical, which is somewhere in our one percent of GDP, is on this left-hand side -- something behind us -- and I'll say something, very well-known Western countries, that's what to say. And among them is Belgium, Italy and Spain. So not to forget, we are not among the good, we are among the bad, we must admit that, but some are even worse than us. As for the fact that in the SMC all of your suggestions – and also on the last committee we had – we somehow deny or do not want to accept these 46 million is very, I will say, ambitious and, frankly, it is really hard to expect that we would actually be able this year given that we gave those funds, 30 million for the police and other things that needed to be resolved. [[...]] I'm only talking about this security aspect, if you want to understand. The second issue is this strategic review. This has already been said to be done and it will be prepared, so here I also think the government has taken a step towards these yours. The third, the middle battalion fighting group, is clear that it is impossible to implement it by 2018 because they do not have vehicles or assets and everything. So it wasn't possible to accept this. And if I go back to spending again. So, expenses for defence; if we look here, I printed this from the STA, too, Stotenberg said: "The expenditure for defence in Europe is again reduced in 2015." Why? Because only five members — Britain, Estonia, Poland, the US and Greece — are at that target of two percent. However, everyone else is in decline, as are France and Italy, and it is very difficult to discuss this somehow in a realistic way if you see that European countries are also very difficult to match these high demands. However, it is clear that if a request has been made, it must be followed in some way and tried to achieve it. To achieve 20% for investments in equipment – of all NATOs only 7 members, this should also be said: Luxembourg, Poland, Turkey, the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Norway and Lithuania. So they're not all perfect. And yes, maybe we didn't really know how, I'll say, on some high level, but it's interesting that NATO will hold a conference with us from May 9th to May 10th 2016. It is said that this Slovenian army is in force, and this General Staff has some effect, because if it wasn't, they probably wouldn't have come to us. I mean, there's always some balance to be found here. I understand that we're in politics and that everyone has to pull on their own side, but I think the problem of the military might be so a little more delicate that it's not so easy to speak. And so once again, let me finish with this thought, I think that none of us here, responsiblely, do not care about the Slovenian Army. But it's very important that we find the right way. Not that he will like it, but be realistic, given that we have a limited budget and that this budget must somehow be pushed, somehow done wisely. If, because of this security situation and the security situation this year and the following year, we have placed greater emphasis on the police, which is undoubtedly a big step so far, which also needs to be publicly recognised, it is necessary to say, with some moderation, okay, if we have given 30 million to this group, something is planned for the next time for the military or this increase. At the same time, I would like to thank the Slovenian Army. Jean says it's not their holiday, it's going to be 15, but I would still congratulate the girls and boys and everyone for doing my job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor and then the proposaler of mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u38	Thank you. Just for a minute, I'm not going to the ping-pong with Mr. Ferlugo. I didn't say it wasn't their holiday. It's their holiday, but it's not 25 years old, it's 26 years old, it's the first difference. The second difference, Mr Ferruga – a little superficial, isn't it – not only to see how much money the Ministry of Defence receives, but to go to different budget lines. Specifically, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces; there is no such figure and there is no such increase. And third, undertakers versus gravediggers; Mr Ferluga said that if they were gravediggers, we were undertakers – one is to reduce the defence budget for five years due to the financial crisis, and the other is not to increase it for four years despite economic growth and improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u40	I would like to reply to Mr Ferruga only a few things about this graph, which very interestingly shows how many individual countries are earmarking for their defence budget, and from this we can see how much they are making for the defence budget and how much they are spending within this percentage for the development of the armed forces themselves. There's two indicators showing off. Among the things we are committed to the defence budget, we are among the last, maybe there are two more, three more countries behind us. But even those countries that are behind us are percentages; 1% of Slovenia's GDP is much less than 1% Belgian or Spanish, so no one will be wrong about the Spanish or Belgian military nominally spending less money than Slovenia. Absolutely not. Therefore, this comparison is correct because it is as a percentage. But the important thing, which is important for the future of the Slovenian Army, is this percentage of how much we spend on investment and development. Mr Ferruga worked so long in the economy that he knows precisely that if one day the company stops investing in development, then the sooner the sooner the decline follows. And that was the most problematic thing I ever wanted to expose. Without being remembered or debated by the opposition, it is because it is an international comparison, and these are facts. And as far as we're concerned about development and investment, there's no one under us anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Security is a value and, at the same time, a good thing that is like health. How precious he is, we know when we lose him. I've been saying that for a very long time. But for the introduction to this debate today, where you're all actually talking about money, I'm going to touch the money myself just for a moment, and then I'm going to ask you to listen even more to that other part, because I'm saying it's more important than money. In fact, when you say, "I'm not 46 million for the Slovenian Army," the whole SMC says the whole government, "so we can't get this anywhere." Oh, run, run, run! But 123 million for migrants you can guarantee in this year's budget!? Here, take 46 million, you still have too much money left for migrants because there is damage to every tolar or euro, and the problem is solved. If it's willful, it's the way, isn't it? He's just not in the mood. And now we come up with that crucial problem. What did the migration crisis in Europe really discuss? Not only a security issue, it is that external aspect that one understands, but it has exposed something much deeper. What Pa is once, what I rarely do, will be borrowed by Prof. Dr. Matevž Tomšič and his article Disruption in the European Space. [[…]] One paragraph, which says essentially what we are facing and what is the real problem in Slovenia in general and unfortunately in the European Union: "We have to deal with intellectual and moral decadence in the European space. Her most obvious expression is obsessive self-accusation. The inability to be aware of the importance of our own values and achievements is a sign of strong spiritual weakness. This is most clearly the case in the current migration crisis, when more than a million refugees overrun Europe, in the vast majority of the Muslim world. Here, instead of thinking soberly about how to solve the situation, how to help those who are actually threatened, but in doing so to ensure security and stability at home, "pathological altruism" prevailed. Instead of in-depth and genuine analyses, we were able to receive blisters about how migrants are absolutely welcome in unlimited quantities to bring cultural wealth, and how much we are guilty of having to flee home anyway. Of course, with minimal intellectual effort, we can find that none of this is true and that the destruction of Europe, as we know, will occur if the ideas of these quasi-human lovers are fully realized." Prof. Dr. Matevž Tomšič. This, ladies and gentlemen, is now our problem, and this is a European problem. And everything we've just talked about, it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... I told you nicely, you talk all the time, the terrible problem is, there's no money. Take him to the migrants! You said it was for that. Then take it there and give it to the Slovenian Army, solve the problem – this way if you want. But the problem is, you don't want to. And that's the problem, that's the moral decadence, that's the self-incrimination, that's our fault. What did the bad Slovenian army do to anyone? She defended Slovenia with enormous risk, enormous effort, and someone had betrayed them before, and gave weapons to their then opponent. That's the problem. And then today we're facing a situation that still has potential. When a key person in charge of the formation of the Slovenian Army is called upon to respond to the court on the day of the establishment of the Manevre National Protection Structure, due to an event in the time of the independence war under the legislation of the defeated communist or socialist JLA or Yugoslavia. I'm awesome. And in the same breath, it says, "Come young and join the Slovenian Army." Everyone's gonna wonder if you're crazy? About as crazy as the current European Commission, which says that if for security reasons it is rejected by one country of one migrant, it will pay a quarter of a million euros in fines. Because the scandal is unprecedented and you should be recalled from Brussels within 24 hours. And it's a coerced thing with some white jackets up there. In short, what is supposed to be aid, which is supposed to be humanitarianism, turns into coercion. And that, of course, shows the real, real light of this story. Forced multicultures. And then Paris and Brussels happen, that's the multicultures in practice. It's a multicultural party, Cologne. And the cultural enrichment of Europe. And then this is where we're discussing it. So what's the problem, ladies and gentlemen? The problem is in values. The problem is that this Europe has forgotten about real values and replaced them with more and more with some of those quasi-redity left-wings that are then sold at the end of the day by almost all because they want to paint beautifully in newspapers, making Europe weak, vulnerable and putting people at risk and making poor people. For what is happening also brings poverty, if anyone does not understand. This is essentially socialism in practice. Everyone can come, everything's out of everyone and take whatever they want. And in the end, they're all poor, and no one has anything, but it's total chaos. Here, communism in practice, the dream of every true socialist. That's what's going on with this social engineering. For this is indeed with these migrations. Where is the role of the defence system now? The defence system, of course, and for this, the countries were established, should protect against the incursion of foreigners into the territory of a country. But you can't do that for the reasons I said before. Because they are false values because they are crazy heads because there is already some collective madness in Europe and nothing is done. And then when the danger is here, they say. Now something has to be done. And what I could tell you is that you can take 64 million dollars out of migrants, and the army doesn't want to do. Once the issue of values begins, this is much broader because it raises the question of what this country is actually based on. And this country is based on a positive, there is no reason for any self-incrimination, and we have listened to it many times in this House. In particular, one party is famous for saying how guilty we are of the unrest there in the Middle East and in Africa, but I don't know what kind of nonsense we've been hearing about what Slovenia has with it, of course, it's perfectly sound - nothing. [[…]] But we attacked someone? No one. We've only defended ourselves once, and we've done it successfully. And anyone who starts in Slovenia with this self-accusation and false humanitarianism, on behalf of which he puts others in danger, I say, should not only be removed from office, but also sent to a famous burning institution, a very beautiful place called Begunje. For the Slovenian Army, however, this problem is much broader here than it seems at first sight. Why? Because not only is it placed in an impossible position, but it is also trying to cut down from the bottom what are real values on which this Slovenian army has also been created and is being abused. For forgive me, what happened the last time the Slovenian Army held an honorable watch on a man who, by all international standards, was a purely listed killer and nothing but a murderer. This is Ivan Matija Cat, who publicly boasted about how he had pulled a gun and killed someone after World War II; it is no heroism, it is murder, ladies and gentlemen, and on behalf of any ideology, it happens, and on behalf of anything that happens, it is murder, it is a crime. [[…]] Not to mention everything that's happened before, and this man bragged about it. He never denied it, he bragged about it. And the Slovenian Army is now parading, instead of celebrating Slovenian independence, those real values, the heroism of the establishment of the Manevska structure of national protection, when it is hidden from JLA's eyes, behind the back of all their informants, organized a network of future Slovenian armies, which then actually began to emerge. Instead of celebrating it, it shuts down the people who did it. And at the same time, it parades at the monument of the criminal. In order to impose some other values that are supposed to be the values on which the Slovenian Army remained. Then you are surprised if within a few years a quarter of all active soldiers have escaped from this army, as stated in the opening speech of the President of the State. It's strange that there's someone else in there, by the way, but there's no way to find anyone else on that basis. And don't say that she likes you, that you have no native consciousness among young people or that she wasn't. I remember well the times of independence which were in Kranj, and also elsewhere I saw them in front of administrative units – boys who came to volunteer themselves to fight for the independence of Slovenia. Not for keeping watch on one criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the problem, because all the values have turned to their heads because many have lost their minds – not only in Slovenia, but also in the European Union at the top of everything. And that's why we're talking about these things now, like they're insurmountable. They are, however, so much easier to save, but it is only necessary to re-establish a system of real values, to remember why this country was created, how the country was created, on which values it was designed and on which values it was created a modern, united Europe. Then suddenly everything will be easily solved. Because if you put things in the right light, if you call things by the right name, if you once called these forced migratory flows social engineering – which is nothing different than communist or socialist or Nazi or fascist, it was all social engineering – and a forced multiculture that does not work, except by blowing up in Paris or in Brussels or elsewhere, or by making some taharrush gamea up from Malmö to Salzburg, in Cologne and in 102 other places; this, ladies and gentlemen, is what gives a real picture and then also gives itself the answer to how to find the right solution. Once we all talk about these values as in our common values, when we return to the point of the creation of independent Slovenia and talk about things with pride, because we can speak with pride, then there will be no problem with the Slovenian Army anymore. And with security in this country and not with its future and development, no, for this power also releases development. Domestic consciousness should be present in all aspects of society, from education to, if you wish, this National Assembly and all other functions, wherever anyone from Slovenia performs them. That things are perfectly clear, then. Here is another point: when it comes to the issue of the ability to defend, values are also about the question of the relationship of society to all those elements that affect the security system or, if you want, which represent, in some way, a basis, a starting point for an individual when entering the security system. In doing so, let me remind you of only one possible seemingly irrelevant thing, but how this society systematically destroys all security systems. One of the things the police need for sure is a quality shooting, a sports shooting, which is always the basis for individuals who have this special ability to do so. And in Slovenia we had the most extraordinary shooters, and we still have them, the Olympic champions, the most capable people in the world. And what does this loving government of ours do at this time in the interior ministry, but who knows? I don't think the Secretary of Defense knows that yet. There is some change of one rule and some new law or amendment of the law that practically no more shooting site in Slovenia will be able to function so that, say, the protected area in the execution of the shooting will cover as much as the maximum range of weapons. There's no such thing in the world. Whoever suggested this is either crazy or greedy enough to want to destroy Slovenian sports shooting. Do you know what the range of an orang rifle is like — 337 Lapua Magnum? There's one mile, something like that. Now draw me a circle of 12 kilometers in Slovenia, and tell me where you'll have one single shot. Even a wait as a military shooting range is no longer in these criteria. And you don't have to take this gun, you can take one ordinary Flint that has one four-mile range, and you can't make room for four kilometers. And whoever is doing this, I will say again – whether he is greedy or wants to intentionally destroy the Slovenian shooting and thereby further weaken the defence capacity of this country. But this is happening right now. About this, by the way, we talked about this once before in this House, we mentioned this a few weeks ago on another subject. And at the time, which was not one to agree with in this House, I almost believed for a moment that this was resolved. Of course not. He even touches the defense. This is the greatest absurdity, for the defense of those shooting ranges and all that it broadcasts is supposed to fall under this law, and they should meet all these requirements. There's such a lot of nonsense in there that I won't tell you now, but if that were to happen – and obviously the one who writes it hates sportsmen, otherwise I can't explain it – then this important point of the defence system base is destroyed and destroyed by one great Slovenian sport. That is the country we have, and this moment, ladies and gentlemen, is occupied by one group within the Slovenian government. In particular, at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which you can check if you don't believe me. Why don't you ask one of the shooters what they think about those suggestions that are written in there? When I spoke to the representatives of the Sagittarius, I held my head, I couldn't believe it, and they showed me the text I had here. This destroys the defence capacity of the state. You start here, you start with values, you start with anything that represents one real base, and then you bring it all together into some decadence and self-incrimination. And then you wonder if young people go abroad mass, and then you say, we'll import migrants instead, and we're there. The whole of Europe now has this problem. The problem with which, in fact, is the problem of common sense. In fact, the issue of values, the problem of decadence, if you want, as described by Professor Tomšič. And that is the very point that we agree more or less on, at least as I understand it today. That we only have to be sure of something — equipment can only be made on its own. This, of course, means that policy needs to be changed. By the way, if you have forgotten, just a few months ago, on a proposal from the Commission, which I am leading — and this on my proposal — the view was adopted that a change in security policy should be made in such a way that more resources are allocated and values change. In short, everything changes in the direction of strengthening security and defence systems. From the police and the military to everything that's connected to it. If you also want the Civil Protection System and everything else that goes with it, and of course the Secret Service. That this will indeed be operationally capable of coping with these new challenges. But what's left of it? They're fighting a little. Everyone's saying what a success it is to end this downfall. That the fall stopped — and it didn't, by the way, it's a lie. But it's not a success, it's gonna have to make up for what's been delayed. Because it was delayed because of some other circumstances that we may have all mistakenly believed that they would remain, but today is just the time. And that's gonna have to be done. And everything can be done, I've told you in the beginning, only will is necessary. The will to change a policy based on real values. And as always in politics, it's values.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Somehow in the introduction, I think it would be appropriate for me to point out in particular this thesis that we do not actually have any criteria drawn up when we talk about how we will ensure a better situation in the Slovenian Army or, if you want, in our defence system. The National Assembly, at the request of the opposition, shall hold a meeting of the National Assembly, including by requiring the meeting of the President of the Republic, who shall also be the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces. On the other hand, the National Assembly is not prepared to take any decision to take into account the warnings given in the opinion of the President of the Republic. I therefore point out that we do not actually have any criteria when we are engaged in these discussions, and that is not good. But that's just the part that happened here today. The fact is also that the President of the Republic, when he has such an assessment, should inform the National Security Council, and I also expected that we would have a much clearer position, including on his part, on the taking of funds for the defence system. This happened at the time of the economic and financial crisis and it would be good to ask ourselves whether Slovenia could be attacked through financial mechanisms? And we're talking about ten things instead of focusing on this attack that actually happened to us. No country is able to pay 7% of the interest rates that Slovenia had to pay for loans rented abroad. This is the destruction of the country. What response did we have? We later ordered stress tests in Slovenian banks according to criteria that neither German banks nor French nor Austrian survive. No banks in the world survive stress tests under criteria such as those carried out in Slovenia. The assumption was even a 7% decline in economic growth; in fact, it was in practice 7% of economic growth. But we still don't know how to make a deal today and find out it was a mistake. And as long as we don't make this mistake, we're gonna have a problem providing resources for the defense, for the police, if we talk about this segment, I'm just gonna stick with it. And this is a key issue that we should urgently discuss in Slovenia, what is happening to us. On the other hand, the motioner also says, "Yes, we must give 46 million immediately," but this same motioner recently requested the entry of a fiscal rule into the constitution and the adoption of an implementing law on fiscal rules that actually restricts public consumption. We can also read in the Government's opinion that the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union and of the European Monetary Union, is committed to respect for common rules and movements, both in public finances and in the wider macroeconomic field. In our own words, we should actually rely on our economy, look at the real situation in our banks and also tell the European Union that these measures implemented in Slovenia have been exaggerated and that compliance with the fiscal rule, as enshrined in the Constitution, actually reduces the country's defence capacity and security. We should be committed to exempting the defence and police system from the fiscal rule system. This is one of the things that we should actually put into effect and thus ensure our security as a small country. How can economic growth be increased, and how can these challenges be addressed? Again, we accept the criteria or we do not actually have any criteria when we talk about how to sell Slovenian companies, banks. The only criterion is to sell it as cheap as possible. And if possible in the tax haven. And these companies in tax havens do not pay taxes in Slovenia, but in tax havens, as much as they pay. Without economic growth, there is also no development of defence capacity. And the longer we cover our ears, our eyes, and we don't face these facts, the longer we talk to each other and accuse ourselves of what's happening to us. But this attack on Slovenia actually happened by financial mechanisms. And what I think might really need to be settled within the defence system itself, but the fact that the last crisis is also a refugee crisis has shown that the collective defence system is failing at a time when it is not in the interest of oil corporations. That is why we must first take care of our security, organise our defence system and rely on experience. And where do we have experience? From General Maistra, from World War II, when we organised our defence system from nothing to the Territorial Defence, which we have successfully developed, that we can defend our independence, and on this basis we must build our own defence system. We've destroyed it, we've only gone into a professional army system, which we find doesn't actually work for us. We've been having problems with the refugee crisis. And it will be necessary to reintroduce mandatory military service to include young people in this system. Of course, it is also a potential recruit for a professional army. And Slovenia needs special units, it needs special forces to be able to participate in international missions. And with these solutions, you could certainly get a lot closer to telling people why you need money to defend yourself. If they feel that we need them in order to go on missions to NATO and so on, they will not take it but I do not know how essential it is to provide 100, 200, 300 million more than today. Secondly, if we are already providing 100 million, 200 million more than today, then we must invest this money in a way that will bring it back through the Slovenian economy to economic growth through jobs, higher contributions, taxes; without this, there will be no way. Of course, part of this means must go to science as a matter of urgency. The development of science and technology is one that also enables an effective defence system. And we also had this development — and what did we do? For example, we sold photon, which has the highest technology in the production of optical measuring devices for armoured personnel, and the fighting power of armoured personnel with built-in optical systems is significantly greater than that of those who do not. And we sell that knowledge, we sell technology. These are mistakes that are difficult to correct and difficult to remedy, so I'm saying we don't have any criteria when we talk about what the defence system is. But we do have the criteria that are set out in the defense plan. The defence plan must be respected. It applies to all sectors: from infrastructure, economies, health care, education, everyone is involved in this defence plan and that is all it needs to be implemented. That's what I warned you about at Telekom. The sale of Telekom was without any criteria as to the security of the country. And what happened? You're suspended because you're alerting me to this problem. But for this problem to check what a change of ownership means, you don't need any money. And you don't take advantage of those opportunities when you don't even have to invest the euro to make sure you're safe. By stressing again, we do not have clear criteria, we do not have clean relations and let us go back to respecting the defence plan. All the departments should read it, but I think it will be much easier for us to discuss the defence system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u46	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Weber, you have not been suspended because you would have warned of the dangers that the sale of Telekom could potentially bring, but because of the way you did it. If you ordered some sort of analysis of how this would affect your system, you did so with the help of the military intelligence service. So that was controversial. I agree with you when you were talking about this optics and everything. For example, one such case was a rifle, Belgian, FN F 2000 S; we know what we got. Then our Slovenian experts were the ones who developed it and upgraded it to be what it is today. And in fact, we gave that knowledge back to the Belgians. But as for the golden fiscal rule, we didn't support it. We did not support him for the reasons given because we did not agree that the Government is adopting such a golden fiscal rule, that it leaves room for manoeuvre and in some way destroys this restrictiveness. But speaking of these 46 million, we are not talking about additional debt for these 46 million, but about internal reserves at the Ministry of Defence, but in particular allocations within other ministries. As I said before, if the Slovenian Army could survive with 250 million euros less, 12 ministries think that, with three million a year, it can survive less.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mahnic. You're the president of the Defence Committee, and you're also an advocate, if I'm well informed. It would also be good if you used the correct terms. Military intelligence is organized within the General Staff. The Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence is a completely different service and it was under my jurisdiction at the time and carried out tasks in accordance with the law, which was also confirmed by lawyers who then gave an opinion as independent experts, even commissioned by the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u49	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u50	Since the content is O.K., the vocabulary is a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is given by Master Lilliana Kozlovich, who will prepare himself for Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your word. Dear Chief of General Staff Dr. Osterman, distinguished Minister, welcome, colleagues and colleagues! I must say, I was extremely fond of Mr Vebra's debate. I think it's very real and very nice to say what the situation is in our country, and also where the problems are, and also in some way how to deal with them. Indeed, it was said earlier, "Gregorčičeva, we have a problem, we have a big problem", later Mr Göncz said that we have many, and Mr Weber also said that these problems and needs are very, very large. We will not achieve anything if we accuse ourselves here today, who is responsible for the state of which the political option is. But the fact is, if I somehow touch this human resources situation that is currently in the military, that is certainly due to some long-term situation, it is not due to a short situation. It is a fact and, of course, then it is significantly harder to take some quick action, short-term measures by which you can say at least a 12-year-old situation for a quick fix is impossible. However, the fact is that certain measures need to be taken and, in essence, to remedy the situation and to stop stagnation and to ensure progress; as provided for by the police, it must also be provided to the military. The fact is that, as was said when we decided to join NATO, we decided to professionalise the army, to shut down the reserve, and today we find that we have problems. We have committed already in 2004 to have a total of 8 000 500 members and members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army and 5,000 500 members of the contractual reserve in 2015, totaling 14 000. But the fact is, what's the situation today? So together, we have 7 000 820 people. It is said that the difference is almost 6 000 126 in line with the resolution adopted at the time on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. It is difficult to make up for this commitment and, of course, to hire so many people, as well as to settle the situation within. For not only is such a staff deficit, but it is also recognized that it is an inappropriate human resources structure. In fact, what appears to be in the military shows that we have 42.7% of soldiers, while we have officers and officers 42.9%. It is said that this structure is also extremely inappropriate inside, and this will also require certain efforts to be made to remedy the matter. The Government is aware of its responsibilities, as the Minister is aware, it is also aware of the President of the Government, and certain measures have been taken. But as I said in the introduction, it is not to be expected that this can be done from today to tomorrow. In fact, the medium-term defence programme 2016-2020 was adopted, where the commitment is that by 2020 the Slovenian Armed Forces will have a total of 9 000 100 members. It means 7,000 600 permanent and a thousand 500 reserve personnel. As of this year, 460 new recruits have been announced; candidates for soldiers under the age of 25 and candidates for officers under the age of 30. Of course, the military also needs other personnel, especially technical profiles – from electricians to mechanics, chemists, and informatics as well – and health personnel, and in the coming years it will also employ sailors, pilots, train drivers and motorists. In short, as is the case with the equipment, it is also in the human resources field, and as we said in the investments, of course, this issue is also acute here. Of course, this problem turns out to be when there are some different, changed situations, and it has now proved to be the most evident in this migratory crisis. Because we have now also actually realized how important security is, both in terms of police powers and in terms of the powers of the army itself or its capacity and capacity to operate. But anyway, whatever the situation is, the Slovenian Army, together with the police, has performed extraordinary tasks at this time and, of course, must be congratulated here to ensure this security that we have in Slovenia. And I can't agree that we're relatively safe. If we look at it, Britain has declared Slovenia one of the safest countries to recommend to its citizens that they also spend their vacation in it. So, as far as the Slovenian Army is concerned, it has helped logistically since September, but then, of course, it cooperated with the Ministry of the Interior in the wider protection of the state border, within the state border. Remember, too, that we gave her special powers; there was no need, but all the tasks she and the police had been entrusted with were extremely good. And both the MNZ and the Mors estimate as excellent and as such, which took place without any incidents. Dear Minister, I am confident that you will be the solution. It is right that we are talking about this, it is right to stress this responsibility that you feel towards the Slovenian Army. [[…]] I am confident that the President of the Government will be aware, because he is also responsible for the entire Government, of course, that they will find a solution together. However, let me point out that this is an extraordinary meeting that the media are also somehow publishing and saying that a new defence law is otherwise being prepared, but that there are very, very present old political pressures. So we can actually understand this meeting in this way today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Pojbich has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! I must say that I am pleased to begin the debate of my colleague Vebra, who is this issue which, I think, is one of the key principles in the right way. The fact is that the key problem we are facing in this country is the economic situation, in all other areas in our society, because we simply find that there is not enough money in our cash registers or in our budget. Whether this money is rationally divided or not, or whether it is in the right way, by the right key, the real priorities are set and so on, is another issue. However, to start this topic in this way, it seems to me that I have here two articles, which came out today and which I think are very important, which are very important, which talk a lot about when the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition in public are trying to make an impression that it is doing well, that it is creative, that it is trying to solve problems, so that it is looking for solutions that are better than they were in the past, and so on and so on. [[…]] But I have two documents that say exactly the opposite, just the opposite. The first says: "The Slovenian economy among the worst in Europe – we are on our way to recession." So this is one of the key or very important arguments where I understand the coalition and this government. Logically, if he knows and knows this information – which is the question, if they are purely accurate, they are still significantly worse likely – to react in such a way that he rejects everything we as the opposition offer because we are aware of what it means to solve the key problems of this society and this country and its subsystems, of course, including the Slovenian Army. And then we have another newspaper article that came out today, and it says in Finance: "The State is building seven new taxes and taxes." So now you can imagine how logically you can not allocate money, new money to sub-systems and areas, so if we find on the front page that Slovenia is wooding into recession. So we're all aware in this society of what this means, then it's logical to try to solve the problem through new taxation. It is said that those who are already on the verge of survival, those entrepreneurs, craftsmen, who, in any case, question how much longer they will endure in this situation, will put an extra burden on them. And here in this document, of course, all those things are written in, and look at what's written here. This is a picture of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition. It's a picture, it's a picture. And on this basis, of course, it is clear to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that you are avoiding everything that would go in a positive direction and which would also benefit, among other things, if I say, the security of the Republic of Slovenia. And under the conditions that we now see here, I think the government and the coalition should imagine. At least what we should do, leave our positions immediately, immediately uncompromising, without any argument because they no longer exist. So far you have tried to mislead the Slovenian public. You're saying how ethical, moral, the best government, and I don't know what you're saying, that all things are going in the right direction, that you're doing great and so on and so forth. So, as I say, you're deceiving Slovenian people, and you don't stop doing that. I think it's thoughtful, agreed and with a clear aim to try to bring this mandate of yours as far as possible. However, after these statements that I have presented here today and with these new burdens, when you want to burden an additional economy and so on, it is clear that the matter will be closed as soon as possible. I don't want to. I want you to stay in power as long as possible, but not to do what you are doing right now, to do exactly the opposite of what you promised in the elections, but to do what people have elected you to Parliament. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we keep trying to warn you about this. I feel like you don't understand anything. And there are a whole lot of you inside a Member and Members who have been in Parliament for a long time, but at least I would expect you to be able to listen to those who are warning that you are making the wrong decisions that are taking Slovenia back to recession. And I'm asking you to accept this fact once and for all to start thinking differently. And if you see that you're not capable or afraid of betraying your uncles from behind or anything, then back off, because at this point, it would be the most elegant of my personal judgment. Now, perhaps I would warn and hope that everyone sitting in Parliament today has listened to the address or position of Slovenian Democratic Party President Janez Janša. Those who have not listened to it correctly, please take it into your hands, read it again, or even twice or five times, to understand how this Slovenian country was created and what we have done for this society and this country and for Slovenia, what we have done and what we have done to keep this country Slovenian, to make the Slovenians feel good and to be safe in this country. Please read this to yourself. I'm warning you again. Mr President of the Slovenian Democratic Party has made it extremely clear, flawlessly explained from A to Z. I think that those sitting in this Parliament have nothing to add to this. And if you get a little bit caught up in what he said here on this pay phone, I'm sure you would be relatively or at least, in my personal opinion, we should act quickly, really quickly. That's one thing. Then the second part is a summary of what the President or Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Army, the Armed Forces of the Slovenian Army, has explained here today. And he wrote: "The Slovenian army has been in line for the third year at the lowest level of readiness. I also assess that, in order to make the international security situation and our tasks worse, we need to take measures to improve its readiness. I propose that we do so in the context of the modernisation of the entire national security system. I call for professional and political agreement on this." The following paragraph: "In order to preserve and strengthen the security of the country in a broader sense, action is crucial for a more sustained economic recovery and a better standard of living for people." A more sustained economic recovery and a better standard for people – I have just talked about this. "In order to preserve and strengthen the security of the country in a narrower sense, it is crucial to modernise the entire security system and the Slovenian Army as its military pillar." And final sentence: "Implementing the necessary measures will preserve and strengthen the security of the Republic of Slovenia and increase its ability to face the challenging security challenges of the modern world." I think in this part the Commander-in-Chief has really said everything. And our debaters, i.e. from the Slovenian Democratic Party, including from New Slovenia, have very clearly warned us that there is an alarming situation and that if we want to, of course, I do not know if we want to maintain the level of security that we now have in Slovenia. [[…]] Do we want it? The second question that I am asked is, do we want Slovenia alone as a state of Slovenia and Slovenians, that is, citizens? What if we want a safe country? Is that what we want? After everything that's been happening in this society lately, and after all, I've been listening to certain media houses. Because I heard yesterday that I was sick; every other sentence was almost Tito and his story, and I don't know what it was, but you know that the war was a criminal. And look, I can't believe it and I have to listen to it. How is it possible that Slovenians and Slovenians, those who are concerned about this country, do nothing, do nothing, do not act, do not respond? We should respond to this, where is the national consciousness, where is our heart Slovenian, where do I ask? Do you think we'll agree to this? And here is the third question to me: is someone deliberately overthrowing the Slovenian Army so that we would not be able to provide security not only outside, even inside? Things are going in the wrong direction in this country right now. Contrary to the wishes of those who went to vote at the time and also opposed the red stars that were carried on their heads by those who shot the Slovenian people and killed the Slovenian people in 1990. That this pillar, which was created for us to have our own country, is about to be destroyed. And I have an ever-increasing feeling that there are several structures that are more important to Serbia and, I don't know, the jugonostalgia, the story and so on. When I drive from Ljubljana to Maribor, I deliberately give one radio station and listen to 80% of Serbian and Croatian music. Slovenia, this country, this nation gave it a free frequency. Please, where do we live? Have you ever wondered where we live? Are you getting away with this? Do you live in a virtual world or do you live in a place that I don't know where? Nobody sees that. And of course then to all those who are patriots of this country and our country, we begin to think about what is actually happening in this society. Is this a cancer society? Have we come so far as to become angry with us on the inside? And that's exactly the feeling I have, it's pissing us off inside. And when it eats us on the inside, we're so much weaker on the outside. Those who get to know each other better than I do know exactly what that means. They know exactly what that means. And I'm afraid, I'm really afraid that my eyes are close to the truth, I'm really afraid. And go back a little bit to the money. I am sure, and we are confident that all of us who are sitting here in this House – like the Chief, Minister, President of the State as Commander-in-Chief – are not enough money for the normal functioning of the Slovenian Army, that is a fact, and that this has not happened since today, but that is a period of time. We're all aware of that. But it's always the government that takes responsibility. When he assumes responsibility for running this country, he also assumes responsibility for the functioning of the subsystems. And this time it is not only the opposition's task to point out this, but it is the task of the government and the coalition to make concrete decisions and decisions. And this time he has an absolute majority here with the Slovenian Democratic Party, with New Slovenia. What better conditions can he ask for? And on the other hand, Slovenians and Slovenians have found that safety is very important, that security is at the time, as colleague Grims says today, I will not repeat his words on what security means. [[…]] If you don't have security, then no health system, no one's gonna tell the legal system, and the whole story doesn't mean anything if someone comes in tomorrow and pulls you out the door and puts a gun to your head. It doesn't mean anything to you, nothing at all. I speak purely of life, and I hope you understand it that way. Therefore, a well-respected coalition, now you have an extraordinary opportunity, you have the support of the people, you have the support of the opposition, I hope the coalition can't shoot past this time. He can't, he just can't, because he's got everything in his hands to solve this problem that's created. And the scissors and the linen are in the hands of the government and the coalition, not the opposition. And you can't talk yesterday I heard that, I don't know, one of the Members was saying that we're doing this just to bring down the ship on which the coalition and the government are sitting. [[…]] I really don't know, this man doesn't hear from Parliament, or he doesn't belong in Parliament if I say it right. If the President of the State, the Commander-in-Chief, says that it is insufficient for the military to carry out all of its duties to receive an under-valuation from its Commander-in-Chief according to the criteria chosen, then the opposition is not the one who overthrows the Government and the coalition and their ship. Please, then, imagine whether you understand what the Commander-in-Chief is trying to tell you or do you understand at all. Is it just to come in, write these few sentences, leave, and it's for the coalition that's all ah and everything and everything. And they're getting nice today when I listened to your discussions, I have to say that I didn't find anything good. [[…]] Nothing good about the Slovenian Army, of course, nothing good. And such a government, such a coalition no longer needs this nation. That's enough. Mr Weber also drew attention to these bank craps and so on in his address, which I think is a very important, extremely important issue. Nothing in this area has done, nor has it done anything legally, nothing, nothing. Finally, we say that we do not have the few millions necessary for the military to ensure the internal and external security of this country. We also joined NATO to take the defence of Slovenia together if this happens. But then he's not our enemy, like I do here sometimes listen to debates. And Slovenia is a small country; you know how much power we have in some situation, one or the other when it happens to us, and we need an ally, because we have consciously decided to join NATO with a two-thirds majority of those who have come to the elections. I think there were over 60% of those who voted, I think, almost 70 who voted in favour of joining NATO. Then I can't listen here, I listen to some; I don't know if they lived in any other republics at the time, and then I don't know when they came when Slovenia lived great, they moved to Slovenia and they're sitting here today in Parliament. And that is a sad truth that can, among other things. When I talked about how I could – a lot of money could be spent differently than it is, because here I see that virtually 80% of all money is spent in the military, that is, in the military wage system. I wonder how many soldiers – I know because I'm from Styrian Home – go to Austria to chop wood, collect grapes, go to give blood to sell blood up in Austria to survive. Where, if 80% of the money goes, where's that money? From what they have. That's an interesting question for me, too. Whether it's the majority of the salaries of those working in the administration system and the General Staff, but the soldiers are left behind, they get that charity. And also our Slovenian soldiers and soldiers have children, they also have families, they also have to survive, they are part of this system. If they provide us with security, we are obliged to do something for them. We are each obliged to contribute in our own way to the functioning of this system if we are to have security at such a level, in a manner and as it has been so far. And when I talk about Slovenian soldiers having such miserable salaries on one side, and on the other hand, you know this story, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, what were the measures? [[…]] First they demolish Janša's government and then they get a deal with the Ministry. Former Head of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and former Presidential Adviser Danil Türk Ladislav Lipič abused the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia to demolish the Janša government at the then All-Slovenian uprisings. Immediately after the collapse of the government, the Ministry of Defence received advisory contracts and a major impact on the Ministry. Ladislav Lipič, who was President of the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia during the second Janšev government and the All-Slovenian uprising, denied, however, that he was among the organisers of the protest and the destroyer of the government; he was only there in order to point out, together with veterans, the situation in society and the injustices that occur to all independents. The government has fallen, the social situation has improved, and the situation in veteran organisations has not changed, as they are still led by the same people, and Ladislav Lipič has set up an account in the form of advisory contracts for the Ministry of Defence. He received almost EUR 10 000; the Ministry of Defence concluded a temporary and temporary contract with retired General Ladislav Lipic in 2013 for the period from 1. Seven. 2013 to 31. 12. 2013 The subject of the contract was advice on the further development of the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia, advice on the further process of professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, advice on the adoption of regulatory arrangements in the defence field, and preparation of various analyses and opinions with proposals for solutions in the defence-military field, were communicated by the Ministry. After the contract expired, Mors concluded with him two other annexes which provided Lipic with advice by 31. 12. 2015; at that time, he earned close to EUR 10,000 at the expense of taxpayers. More importantly, he has been given constant control over the ministry's functioning. And I don't understand that one of those generals can advise when he's retired! What did he do before he was in the Slovenian Army, I ask you!? What was he doing, why was he there? I'm really asking if there was a statistician there after he retired, but he learned how to work, and he learned strategies, military doctrines and so on. Amazingly, amazingly – look at what he's getting himself into, this government coalition and this government. It's really amazing. And this money – why is this money not about these poor soldiers and soldiers, why? Why must such a person who has certainly not know how many thousands of euros in an account, but I don't know where else the houses are, but I don't know everything around the world, because he had an extremely good salary, we know that, and fees, and if this money and that — how many such leeches you think are there that we don't know about, and who have been for the last decades; if you go to look, there are probably thousands of them. [[…]] And instead of going money to modernise the equipment the military absolutely needs, for equipment and at least for the wages of those poor soldiers and soldiers who are on those practically almost minimum wages, we gave to those people who are retired as small gods in this society. It's really sad what kind of society we live in. Finally, I cannot go through this – I also sent a written question to the Minister yesterday – concerning the problem that I am telling him that it was without a case that he went extremely far beyond all the limits of good taste, and that is that the Slovenian Army stood up to the criminal Ivan Cat Matija when they placed or rebuilt the monument there. It's a slaughterhouse everyone knows about, we all know. What I think is very important is this letter that I have to read. But he was written by Pepca Cat, his sister, and wrote: "National reconciliation now. The Presidency's statement on national reconciliation shows that the Presidency has not yet understood the position of the people of Slovenia on this issue. The Presidency still does not see the last hour of communism beating on Slovenian soil. Communists, as individuals and as a party, will have to take responsibility not only morally but also in court for machine crimes. However, it is difficult to talk about the guilt of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with crimes, since all the pillars of power were in the hands of the communists from 1945 until today. The slaughter of patriots and their escorts (innocent children and their mothers) as well as many conscious Slovenians who were not even actively involved in the war was carried out on behalf of an idea – "communism". Nor is it possible to forget that the Communist comrades tried to fool in the most inhumane way, if that is the case at all. These "colleagues" are today the bearers of high state decorations and in most members of the Union of Communists of Slovenia – Parties for Democratic Reconstruction! The Presidency should therefore give the initiative to investigate, publish the names of the victims and determine where the victims are buried. It will also be necessary to start thinking about paying compensation to the family members. If we are to prosecute war criminals, we must be principled. War crimes don't get old, not white or red. The culprits must be named and convicted because of those who are alive who have worked in the Security Intelligence Service, but they have not slaughtered those partisans who today feel cheated and those evicted in Argentina, who are at least as many Slovenians as we are, and despite not being guilty, do not hope in their homeland. For living and honest people, then. Pussy Cat, Tacen." And that's the sister of this butcher. And what happened to her? In 14 days, they said she committed suicide. Do you have any idea who that butcher was who ended this story? Just as it happened, if we remember, in the Jurovska Dol benefactor from Negova Ivan Kramberger. This is this criminal society that still holds everything in its hands. And that's, I call her a criminal organization. And I think there are still a few in our society who are trying to undermine the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia in the background. Therefore, they are doing everything in their power to destroy the Slovenian Army in such a way that they are unable to perform their functions. And I think that this is absolutely unfair, unacceptable, extreme, I will say, low and Slovenian and Slovenian we must put ourselves on this side. We must take care of our own security, and I hope that we are able to do so, regardless of which government and which authority this country holds. It will come and come to the right place once we have this structure, with this suit, so that they will not steal from us the country that we have gathered for so many centuries with difficulty. And thank you to all those who stood on the side when it came to the homeland of Slovenia. And once again, the Slovenian Army was not established in 1990, but it was a year earlier, which was the key to this, along with the police, that we today have a independent Republic of Slovenia. And we are obliged to take care of all together to provide the Slovenian Army with what is absolutely necessary in order to be able to carry out its function in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u55	The word has Master Andrei Shircelj. Prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u56	Thank you very much, distinguished president, minister, secretary of state, chief! Today's debate shows that the situation in the Slovenian Army is alarming. For the first time, because the Supreme Commander of the Slovenian Army in his opinion has actually served with alarming data both on the operation of this army, on the fulfilment of the commitments made in this regard by the Government and the Slovenian Armed Forces, and of course also on the issue of, I will say, the broader importance of the Slovenian Armed Forces in NATO, which today means a pillar for security in Slovenia and a pillar for security in Europe. And disappointment, which is present today in this Chamber, is the disappointment that even if, not only the opposition but also the commander-in-chief, it points out that the situation is extremely poor, that the assessment is insufficient, that the assessment is insufficient for the Slovenian Army in times of crisis or war and so forth, this coalition is unable to take any action. I think that's what's most worrying right now. Of course, I will also define this from the point of view of internal affairs in the Slovenian Army, which has already been said much today, and of course also in the context of international relations or the international moment in which Slovenia is actually today. And the fact that this coalition – and here in particular the greatest role of the Modern Centre Party – is unable not to accept the opposition's proposals without even accepting any proposals made by the President of the Republic by the Commander-in-Chief, but simply rejecting everything I actually don't know what is actually going on in this government and in this coalition and in this party. [[...]] Any area, however, we talked yesterday about a very small matter in comparison, a lower rate of value added tax, and if we are talking about the Slovenian Army today, there is no minimal effort to change something in this country, even though the situation is alarming. I think it's some kind of black dot, some kind of a reminder to this government and this coalition, and I think it's about time that something really bothers to accept it. Not everything is bad, as the opposition proposes, and not everything is bad, as the Commander-in-Chief proposes after all. And this indolence to these measures is in fact incomprehensible and here the coalition bears responsibility. It is important to be aware that we are looking at international circumstances and, of course, we are looking at this report, or the opinion of the President of the Republic, that international circumstances have changed significantly and that security is a good thing. Security is one of the basic benefits of all mankind, Europe and security today, especially in recent times. If we are talking about increased risks and less security for citizens and citizens, then of course we need to know that more attention is needed, more money should also be devoted to this good. And this is not actually done; it does not do so with the 2016 and 2017 budget, it does not do so with any balance and in short, citizens and citizens, and this country is simply left on the table, without security. This, of course, also shows the opinion of the Commander-in-Chief. Why, in fact, does the security issue prove to be extremely problematic? In particular, due to international relations and in particular to this reaction by the European Commission or the European Union. On the one hand, I will say, as mentioned in this opinion, Russia's different position in global international relations, we have the role of Daes in this case, there are greater risks of terrorist attacks. Looking even wider, we have changed relations in the Middle East and Africa, and especially the European Union, which has not been effective in protecting European borders. And because of this, the increase in risk is both in the Western Balkans for danger and, of course, in Slovenia. And all this data that is today, I will say, shown about the functioning of the Slovenian Army, and of course also financial data shows that there is a lot to be changed in this area. The fact that we do not adhere to the commitments we have made to Nate is of course bad, and regardless of the comparison with other countries, Slovenia is one of those countries that has simply ignored these commitments for years, regardless of the crisis, and no matter how hard it is to keep at least some of these commitments. Of course we'll know that. We will, of course, know this within the framework of NATO within the European Union and, of course, also for our own security. The migrant crisis, the failure to respect the European border where the military has a role, will certainly contribute to increasing the security risk in Slovenia. Of course, I would expect the Minister of Finance to be the Minister of Defence to come to the National Assembly in the coming week with the budget rebalancing. Firstly, with the budget rebalancing due to new expenditure. Secondly, due to the budget's rebalancing, certain extraordinary expenditure has also been incurred in the area of security. And especially because the position of the Slovenian Army is insufficient, I will say. And security in Slovenia is not guaranteed to citizens and citizens, that is what the Commander-in-Chief said today, in other words, in my opinion. But nothing happens here. Nothing happens here, and I think that's what's most important about this government, this coalition is actually wrong and the most problematic. For this reason, I appeal to the fact that this coalition – regardless of the fact that there are no conclusions – does something already, because the simple situation is going in a direction where things will become so critical that people's lives and, of course, the easy population, including the things they own, will be at risk. And I don't think we can afford anything like this here, and I'm once again calling for you to take action. And that can, very quickly. And by doing so, you will show some attitude towards the President of the Republic or the Commander-in-Chief and, of course, that it is for the well-being of the people and for the risk of security to be reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u57	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! After the Congress last year, we highlighted and presented six priorities that the social democracy sees as fundamental to the further development and existence of the community. Not just ours, but wider. In the introduction to that document and under the first point we wrote, "Peace is a condition.".. Why? Just following the assessment that 70 years after the victory, war, armed conflict on our soil or in Europe is almost impossible or something that is far from us, although even during the period of so-called peace the armed conflict was constantly present on the European continent. Last but not least, in our narrow neighbourhood in the Balkans, today in Ukraine, through a smaller but no less bloody battle, as well as in Basque and other areas, such as Northern Ireland. After the end of World War II, Europe has been able to understand something that today and then does not understand – that there is no need for a strong army to prevent war, that we need, in particular, a social and economic framework that gives people the opportunity to live with dignity in order to create a decent life in respect of each other. And the debate on whether butter or cannons is really wrong, because we need both to some point. Without cannons that can protect people from an external enemy, of course, it does not work, but with an army that is so powerful and technologically advanced, there is no one to defend, no one can help. That is why, of course, the first task of the government and these coalitions is to first provide an appropriate economic and social framework, from which the sustainable and long-term development of the Slovenian security and defence system can also be ensured. And if not this, even any previous government and coalition, has decided that ensuring social stability and peace in given and extremely difficult circumstances is not the only one, however, more priority than updating military equipment at a time when one of the global priorities — including the most powerful forces in the world, the United States — disarmament, demilitarisation, the establishment of a framework for peaceful coexistence, then this is logical in the context of the severe financial and economic crisis. Because what was often heard in other times: where it is not, neither can the army take. The fact is that not only butter but also cannons must be provided. Because, unfortunately, we are not living in an ideal world and because, also through the history of the Slovenian nation, which did not begin in 1991, it has proved that this nation, in addition to having to re-elect its social existence, national identity, had to ensure its independence, sovereignty and survival with a sword, a rifle, some would also write with a book. Let's talk about Maister's fighters, let's say it's a national army formed by the partisan orders, which, 70 years ago, also liberated this country from Nazism, let's go. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u59	Mr. Tanko, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u61	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Perhaps the relation to the debates is also the attitude towards the Slovenian state, including the Slovenian Army, for which we are all responsible. And what the President said today in his address will not help us to accuse or find the culprits for choosing to first ensure social stability and cohesion, which, if you look at European history, is a fundamental prerequisite for peace, and then the system for updating security systems. This is a shared responsibility that we have also carried out together. What is ahead of us today, in the coming years, is that part of the economic growth that positive frameworks of growth measures give me I am sorry, Mr. Dolinšek, that this is not interesting to you [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u63	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek and Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister Katičeva, Mr Major General, colleagues and colleagues! We have heard the report of the Commander-in-Chief and we have also received his letter, where, of course, he is very critical of his not to tell our army. Of course, I must say that it would be difficult for him to give the same assessment. However, I think that the assessment in the public that the military is at the lowest possible level of readiness under different criteria – although at some point it has received even two – I simply do not believe it. In fact, even a football coach in the middle of the league doesn't say, "Listen, my club sucks, but we will." So I don't think that's the best, at least psychologically not good. And I don't believe it's absolutely true. In fact, I think the army, the national defense, if you want, can't be completely excluded from society as it is. I once said on one occasion that Dr. Kreso Petrovic, a sociologist, said about sport – what the situation in Slovenian sport was there in 70, 80 years – "such as the situation in Slovenian society". And, of course, there can be no defence, the military is absolutely no different than it is in society. And that's why, of course, I don't share this bad judgment unless we say we're in total disarray as a country. But I don't think so. But of course I'm for discussion. Is public debate what first leads to some result OK, but along this path we all went together. [[...]] I think that, of course, the debate is not too much and it is necessary to see what is happening now, of course, what is happening within the military and what is happening in the relationship of society to the defence system, from our army here and those involved in NATO. The Slovenian army, I must say, has a long tradition. I'm gonna start by saying that history didn't start with me and it won't end with me. This tradition, of course, is interesting. We were, of course, part of different countries, Slovenian soldiers were considered good soldiers – not men at men, guns and cowboys, of course – but since the deployment of weapons further, let us say in the time of Mary Teresa, when he was somehow axiom, that, I don't know, a hundred soldiers shot at the house at 200 meters and struck that house, in short, from then on when it was necessary to organize a defence or attack, but from then on a Slovenian soldier as disciplined, by nature a disciplined man was considered a good soldier. This story from Yugoslavia used to be that the Serbs were good soldiers and the Slovenians were bad, and it was, of course, made up because they simply did not allow us to be good, but of course it has no historical basis. Today, of course, we have to make a real assessment of this. It has already been said, the Slovenian Army, our Slovenian army has a great tradition of its own. Well, if we start with Master's fighters, the national liberation fight, and later. Here, too, we had our own commanders, our own people, who also exercised expertise in the military. And of course, it's a tradition that you don't cross either with the regime or with the country that's reshaping. And, of course, it was important, although I of course would not underestimate the national liberation struggle; we then had our partisan forces and, of course, we also know that our partisans, some prominent generals, cried in March 45 years when they drowned in the Yugoslav army and when the language finally became essentially Serbian, if we are very sincere. At the time, some found it very difficult. But within Yugoslavia, she was born, if I may say so, if the Territorial Defence has been established. The only serious territorial defence in the Yugoslav space was in the Slovenian space. And that is why, of course, Yugoslav Gina — the inspectors who walked were always jealous of this Territorial Defense because they knew that it was working really well with us. And in this tradition, we can say calmly, we have also been freed. It was a great act. Of course, we had our own police, our Territorial Defence, our own knowledge, and from that – I will not discuss the dates, because I don't think they're that important, the day before or after, but we did – we won. We've even reached our own country, our own army. What does this mean in the context of NATO, but of course, is another story that we are discussing today. I have to say again, we cannot judge the Yugoslav partisan squads, or, if you like, the Slovenian partisan army and say, "my father, who was an illegal and gave Calvary to the Second World War through, made a mistake when he decided on Yugoslavia". I just don't have the right to say this. It was then in time and space that he decided to make a choice, which seemed to them to be the most suitable option at the time to resolve the Slovenian national issue and the Slovenian social issue. And of course it is today. We have just decided to conquer ourselves and now bear the burden of this independence, as we know and know. Of course, I am in this data if I can say, or always in these questions, that history is studied by historians, that politics is least involved in different feedback assessments, because these assessments can be very superficial, and, of course, are generally in the service of daily policy, and therefore, of course, guilty or often inaccurate. And, of course, let us also leave some things to the courts, if that is what we have to do. However, he noted, among other things, that there is no correlation between the financial resources and the efficiency of the military. And of course, that's something that I totally agree to or I think he's right; it's moral, it's important the satisfaction of people with a social system, it's important what kind of society you live in, and then, of course, you'll defend it or you'll know why you're defending it and why you're not defending it. Of course, this applies to the military, also to the so-called patriotic defense if you want, because some patriots would like to do it as an object. But the point is, if you have something to defend, if you have something to love, then of course you have it because you feel like you're part of it. There is an extraordinary social dimension, an extraordinary role. In fact, it's about both aspects. One is social in the military itself, of course, there is a question if there is anything else to be done. We also know when those military salaries went down. And, of course, it's social in society, that's crucial. In total, of course, 110 thousand unemployed in our country of course does not mean much encouragement, it may be a negative, but it is a situation in which we are and which, of course, for some is not good. Who, of course, is responsible for this? It's us, the political class, that's perfectly clear. Here, of course, we can speak to each other now, the position – the opposition. But the fact is, when you see who is popular, who is not popular – from the bottom up: parties, National Assembly, then good church and so on, but firefighters are at the top. In short, we should all think seriously about it together, or because sometimes we do, but mostly by words rather than by actions. This moral situation is, of course, in a broader sense: of course, what has happened today is the issue of health, education, the economy as a whole, I will not repeat these things, because you all know this. Finally, only the answer to a question that I will not give, of course, has the National Security Council, or why not, been called by the President of the State or the Commander? Of course, I don't know, I'm not a member, and I'm having a hard time answering that question, and it's addressed to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u65	Imam Mr Marjan Dolinšek, prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u66	Thank you for the words of the President, nice greeting once again! Let me begin by saying or saying that I am happy when Mr Janša said at the outset that I made him laugh. Then I would like to respond further to Mr Janša's claim that the provincial headquarters of this Zasavje gave up his weapons one day later after what was then a letter not to be given, and that I probably know something about it. It was a county headquarters, some guns and so on. However, I was not interested in the province; I belonged to the municipal headquarters, which was in 1990, the municipal headquarters of the Territorial Defence of Trbovlje. Our headquarters, my headquarters, have not given up arms despite orders, and we are one of the 16 municipalities in Slovenia that have not done so in an explanation. I must say that I am also pleased with the conclusions made by Mr Janša that he has been drawing attention to the issue in the Slovenian Army for decades. Yeah, the problem didn't arise a year ago, and it's nice that he said that it's been a thing for decades. It is also an opinion expressed a few months ago, or not long ago by Mr Krković, that financial resources are not a key issue of the Slovenian Army. Even here, I must say, I deeply agree. Now, if we go to the very situation in the Slovenian Army. The Defence Committee has held several meetings in recent months – as I mentioned earlier – 20 extraordinary or urgent – where the situation and the situation in the Slovenian Army were affected. It is true that we cannot be satisfied with the situation in the Slovenian Army, even less with the assessment that has been given, but let us be realistic. I personally think that, as shown in the report of the Commander-in-Chief, the President of the State of Borut Pahor, it does not have to be so catastrophic. I would like to commend from this city all members of the Slovenian Army, who are exemplary in their work, their duties, everyone on their duties. I think it's a fortune that they still have a spirit of belonging to this country. They used to say, "man is the greatest wealth", and we can be happy to have such members in the Slovenian Army. The easiest thing to do is to negative everything that's wrong with extremes. This does not have a good effect on the members themselves, which has been evident for some time now. Every year at the time of these assessments. So it's been three years. It is also important to point out here the last few months ago when the Slovenian Army actively played its role with the Slovenian police. Now that it's over, we've almost forgotten that the army was night and day active, that it was working to prove itself with the police, and that this is also one part, one reflection of the state of readiness, and this was on a high level. In the hypothetical war, the Slovenian Army would certainly be able to defend the homeland, according to estimates that were heard or seen in the media by the Chief of Staff — a common assessment somewhere around this situation. That sounds very nice, and I believe that it is, too, I'm very sure. But we must not forget this assessment. Today, I think it has been heard several times that in 2012 the Slovenian Armed Forces moved to a new assessment methodology that has substantially exacerbated the requirements, the criteria, meaning the comparability that is in force in the Alliance. And we must not look only unilaterally; we have obligations in alliance, but primarily the task of the Slovenian Army is to defend and defend our country. And if certain parameters that have been shown do not meet, I am sure that this is according to the criteria of the alliance. But that the Slovenian Army is unable to protect our country, and no one will be able to convince me. As in 1991; earlier it was nice of Janša's colleague to hear: less money and it was able to protect and also with weapons we were able to deter the aggressor JLA and protect our independence. We also need to focus on this part, namely, the primary task that the Slovenian Army has in our Republic of Slovenia, and for which this is first called. It's true that we've had a professional army since 2004, when we joined NATO. However, the second strategy and all that then belongs to the operational organisation itself is implementation and so on. The strategy, however, has practically changed since 1991 and the reorganisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces with almost every minister when he switched. Another reorganisation has not been completed, the new one has already begun. That's what I think the Chief will be able to confirm. Years ago, I had a chance, and I was told by the members, and they said, "We don't know what this is about anymore, we haven't finished another reorganisation, we have another one, we don't know where to work anymore, the confusion is perfect." A few years ago, not yesterday, not last year. It follows from the assessment that it has been at the lowest level of performance for the third year in a row. Here the question is asked to me, how did we assess this to be at the lowest level; what is something at the lowest level or at the highest level? The thing is always endless. And here too, I think it's a little bit of an exaggeration. As I mentioned earlier, financial resources, I say, are one of the essential elements of the Slovenian military, but they are not the only key element. If we look at it since 2004: at the entry into NATO was the defence budget of 397 million, this year, 2016 is 375 million. It's just a little bit of a comparison. In 2004 this year. In the meantime, the defence expenditure from 2007 to 2010 amounted to over 500 million at the annual level, and we therefore need to understand today's prevailing situation as we have it, and take the reasons for almost nine, twelve years somewhere, period, and things have accumulated. And in the time of the fat cows, if we look from 2004 on how well it started to grow the budget for the Slovenian Army until 2010, and then we can ask ourselves on this basis from 2008 virtually no purchases were made. [[…]] Today, we are talking, 18 years old – whether it's a technical tool or a driving park – which means that if it were purchased in the time of fat cows, from 2004 to 2010, we would be talking about 8, 9 years old technical equipment and also a driving park. Money was more than enough, apparently too much. And now the situation is what it is. Take him in six months, in one year, to the level that he should have been or that he's been for a year, which is a little bit harder. We have also heard from our colleague Janša before, "in one term it is difficult", and the mandate is normal for four years, even in the field of the Slovenian Army, even when it comes to larger purchases. Earlier, the minister had shown well or said that it was two and a half years from the signing of the contract to the delivery itself, I think, if I heard correctly. These are not ordinary chemical pencils, so we must also have this understanding on this side. Now only the opinion of the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor. I have to say, in some parts, I'm surprised. Firstly, I do not know when he is the Commander-in-Chief of the entire Security System of the Republic of Slovenia. As I am aware, he is only the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Slovenia. Because it assesses the complete security of the Republic of Slovenia; this is the task of the National Security Council, and here the National Security Council Decision is clear, in general Article 1, paragraph 2, when this decree speaks of the competences of the National Security Council, so that this was an intervention and assessment that falls within the competence of the National Security Council. Also, predictions that have already been announced by the resurgence of the world’s dimensions are a little inappropriate and without a realistic basis for this to happen. She wonders inside that this is a matter of time. Also, I have to say, I was very surprised. Mainly, I cannot accept the fact that the President of the State, Mr Pahor, in his assessment and opinion, did not come to this crucial conclusion that he himself took almost one third of the funding from the Slovenian Army in 2010. One third of the funding, like the then president of the government. It comes to me then, now this third year, about this assessment, how many times did the president go well among the Slovenian Army, how many times? Twice, three times, five times, he talked to the Chief of Staff in three years about what should be done, not just in the financial field, in others. In short, how many suggestions did he make? I didn't track it anywhere. I think the assessment of the situation described is a little excessive, but not that we are now admiring. However, the second thing we have already heard is that the predecessor, Mr Hainz, has touched on some of this – I do not know which country whose president has made such an assessment in recent years or decades about his army, I am talking about the vocabulary, the way and so on? However, this is not the way you talk about your own army and does not represent it, because it is a very bad journey across the border, according to these estimates. And it's not that we're admiring, far away from it, but I think it's also an impact, how it affects the members themselves, who are doing well and if we follow a little, how many praises from NATO's peaks we've been given in recent periods, especially for missions carried out by our Slovenian Army around the world, so it's not all so black. [[…]] And I have another positive side to mention. That is, we have successfully certified the NATO Center of Excellence, which has brought just as much praise from NATO, within the Alliance. It should also be mentioned that we have made all preparations for the necessary deployment, for the first time, to the EU's military operation Sophia in the Mediterranean, and this operation has recently been successfully completed. And we forget about things like this, everything's long and short. I actually believe that the Commissioner himself can probably feel very uncomfortable sometimes, because we all just chimp over the military. He's in charge. Secondly, the question is whether money could be given, we speak years ago, and we use it more optimally. But that's another question that can and today would not be like that. [[…]] Like I said, we wouldn't be 18 and 20 years old. Let's put it this way, it used to be heard. But here it is; I trust the profession, I cannot agree that I would not allow myself to have what is appropriate, I do not know today that it will have the Slovenian Army – which armor, what battle groups and so on. [[…]] I wouldn't have let that happen. That's why the General Staff, which is pretty busy; I think it's more than 100 people, 100 people. And the task of the General Staff knows what it is. As the highest professional body of the Slovenian Armed Forces, such as the core mission of the General Staff: carrying out military professional tasks, planning and development of forces, as well as organising the military and providing capacity and equipping the Slovenian Armed Forces. So I have to trust senior officers in General Staff. They're just assessing which way it's going to go. I don't know who's smarter on the other hand, I'll say in civilian that we'll assess what's more appropriate and what's less appropriate. So I think it's inappropriate, extremely inappropriate interference with these professional debates, in just the expertise of what we should do. But it is true that so far this experiment has been very large. And then today in one year to fix everything, to replace everything that's been piled up and piled up for years and years, you can't get to that point overnight. Let me also mention the Defence Act; no one has touched this matter for 10 years. And the ministers were changing, not one. Ten years. It was incomprehensible to me when I came into this story that the Defence Act was 10 years old. The public hearing is now closing, it will go into procedure, and I am sure that we will be able to adopt it by the end of the year at least. Similarly, the new medium-term defence programme 2016-2020 has been adopted, and everything that was heard at the outset by the Minister is also the other documents and measures that are already being prepared and all that is involved. So it started working in the same direction that the situation would improve. It can only be concluded that in recent years things have been underworked or that wrong things have been done. That would not be the situation today. So the very problem of finance is that no one can convince me. Unfortunately, these are facts such as that I will not go into specific cases years ago, and let's leave, let's keep looking. But we can't go on saying, "what's done, what's done, what's done, and it's not going to be good, and it's already in advance, it's going to be nothing." I don't know. [[…]] We don't even give the chance, let's wait for the results of what the Minister presented at the outset. I think it was very clear and I think we need a little more optimism and hope and not look as black as we look. At least I believe that they will go – at the head of the Minister, with the Chief of Staff, all efforts to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army in concrete terms, and I believe that the trend will start to turn, I am sure that by the end of the year, clearly up, and the Minister will also be able to boast with certain visible results. Of course, there is nothing she can do; the individual is one part; the Chief of General Staff is behind him, the entire General Staff, and probably a lot to do. I believe that we are finally even today's debate is no big deal, for sure. [[…]] Each such thing is positive because the chief is present and the minister all the time; perhaps some new knowledge has also been received today and they have imagined it. Let's actually keep looking positive and let's stop this Slovenian army long and hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u67	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u68	First it was a replica, then two are procedural. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] All three things are of the same level, but I think it would make sense to hear the replica first and then [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, you didn't, I understood that there was a replica on your side, then it's okay. First procedurally, second procedurally. Procedural first, Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. That you will not think that I am taking advantage of a procedural proposal, but still - perhaps you could warn your client colleague or a colleague of ours that he is speaking in mind, even though he is a great military expert, and that we must, at least personally, think that we must protect the institution of the President of the State. I will say this in just one sentence; when we talk about inadequacy and so on Mr Dolinšek, if we read this report; in the report written by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it is written: "Preparation for action in peace is assessed with an average price sufficient, and readiness for action in crisis or war is assessed with an average price insufficient". [[…]] This was not invented by the President of the State, but is an assessment by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which you and I are extremely respectful of. And for the sake of the public, it is clear that the military has given such an assessment to itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u70	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of the debate that has just been held, when there has been a strong statement that we are not competent to decide on specific acquisitions, and that it is a matter of trust for the General Staff, I propose that if it is possible to immediately, but not to order a survey of the relevant services of the National Assembly, which would show everyone how the American Congress actually decides on such matters, how they accurately define each charge, each weapon system, and that their Pentagon proposes there, but that the decision is always and exclusively political on the part of Members. Look, ladies and gentlemen in the coalition, this is your responsibility, and this responsibility cannot be avoided and passed on to another, say the General Staff. They can propose professionally, but the decision is made by policy and no one else is a politician, and that is why you are also elected.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u72	First I understand procedurally, and the second was not procedural. In fact, it is not the only part that is procedural, but I can answer it, and that is that every Member in this National Assembly can order our research service to do research of this kind. [[…]] Before that, I was wrong about the sequence; first of all, Master Matthew Tonin is a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u73	When I listened to Mr Dolinski's debate, I did not know whether we were crying or laughing. As much as he was able to say in 25 minutes, some fail. Well, I'm a little sharper on him. I would say that what he was able to say in 25 minutes could be said in one sentence, namely, "what the President of the Republic said is nothing, because it is not so bad". You can say in one sentence what it took 25 minutes to say, and I'm not going down on this. But Mr Dolinšek, with regard to the report itself, Member Han has already told you who prepared it for the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic certainly did not go from unit to unit and asked them how many bullets they had spent, what opportunities they had to operate, but this report was based on the report of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. And that's why this report is so alarming, because it's not a political assessment, it's a professional evaluation. The military itself said that, in the event of a war, it would not be possible to carry out its duties properly, and if politics said at all that everything was great, but that it was not so bad, I think things were starting to worry me, and Member Dolinšek would at least be obliged to tell in which parts of the report was not exactly accurate or we were overreacting to it. Let it be said specifically; there are graphs, numbers in this report – say, "this number is not true, this is an exaggeration". There are few subjective evaluations in this report, many evaluations are made on the basis of relevant data provided by the Slovenian Armed Forces. And yet in this regard – I think that there was one 15 minutes, I was melting, and then I stopped – handing out about how this was due 10 years ago, and how, and so on, Ambassador Dolinšek, no one is saying that today, this moment, the defence budget should be returned to the 2010 level. [[…]] If we did that today, we would need more than 200 million euros, no one is saying that. But we are talking about a specific amount called EUR 46 million. And if you listen to me on the Defence Committee, I can now find you material here, where the General Staff has been reporting in detail on the lines that all the money is needed for. [[…]] Here, he spoke there, distributed what 46 million euros would need: €4.6 million for uniforms, €2 million for ammunition, €3 million for strategic reserves, €3.5 million for military supplies, €11 million for maintenance – within this €8 million for helicopters – and €2 million for military infrastructure and so on. So very specific things, and this money wouldn't go to anything, but it would go to very precise and specific things. It was also "worldly", who or whatever allows the President of the Republic to come and do these things with such a report. Member Dolinšek, the Constitution imposes this on him and allows him, and of course also the requirements of this Parliament, if we are very precise. If I'm not mistaken, even you pressed the button to get the President of the Republic to report these things. You just have to put a few things together and see what they're like. If we continue to have such debates for 25 minutes, nothing is said at all, then it is normal that this house will have no reputation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u74	[[advertising from the hall]] Of course he has a replica because he debated He hasn't given any replicas yet, you just have to tell who exactly and clearly. [[…]] Replica, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u75	Let me get this straight. I guess Mr. Han didn't get me. I have commented on the opinion of the President of the country, on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces! Opinion, let's give the deadlines to separate. However, hereafter, Mr Tonin, I would also like to answer you. You do not need to teach how someone will debate, how long they will debate and what they will discuss. I have the right to debate time, content, as I discuss it. So I won't let you lecture me, Mr. Tonin, you. And I also have to tell you, I was quite clear in what parts of what I was talking about the opinion of the President of the Government that he gave. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u76	Now Mr Jan Mahnic has the word as a representative of the proposer, and then you will come forward to say so, because the change is Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u77	Thank you, President. I must say that I was not quite sure when I listened to my colleague Dolinsk that he did not accidentally speak the SMC's position at the meeting at which they brought a constitutional accusation against the President of the Republic of Mr Pahor. Well, I kind of got that feeling. I agree with Mr. Dolinsky when he said, "In one year you can't do everything," but you didn't listen to me. 2014 you had a balance, you did not provide any more funds. 2015 you had a balance, you did not provide any more funds. You have accepted the budget for 2016, for 2017, you have not provided any more resources. However, 2018 is an election. That's four years, that's not a year. You're all talking about the refugee crisis. Yes, the army has played a great role here, but we need to separate. I don't think what happened in the refugee crisis is a combat operation. And here, the army has an underestimation. This goes well enough — what colleague Han said earlier. It is not enough to work in peace; it is not enough to fight or act in war. And what they have done excellently with these refugees, with these migrants, falls under this assessment enough, not enough. If I understand correctly, it is not a problem that the situation in the military is what it is, the problem is methodology, evaluation. And that doesn't give me any optimism anymore, because if this is the position of the largest customer, of the modern centre – it's no problem that there's no money, the problem is the methodology that evaluates, let's change the methodology so that when we evaluate 2015 for 2016 that the military gets, I don't know if I say rating A and I don't know how many plus, triple A, methodology is problem, no, it's not a problem that the situation is like [[...]] Center of Excellence; I don't know how it helps in war, but. Yeah, they set it up, but I've got another fear here that we're going to go build some other facilities or some other center of excellence and we're going to put the stuff we put in here, move it there and crash it all. And here we have this methodology again. According to you, the chief should probably have been evaluated when it was 72. The brigade, all the machinery, send everything from the 1st Brigade to the 72nd to be evaluated sufficiently. And then when we came to grade one. The brigade, put everything from the 72nd there. This would be the right methodology, such tricks could probably be done; given that Mr General is laughing, he is likely to be attached. But they didn't do it because the situation is what it is, because it's right to finally tell once what the situation is. Besides, it's wrong for politics to decide that we have expertise. When we talked about the battalion's fighting group, it's a profession, so that's what the military would say, politics, the ministry suggested it, and the National Assembly confirmed it. It's not like I'm here talking about what this middle battalion fighting group must be like. According to the following classifications, this is a mechanized battalion battle group, not this one – the Wave, which is beaten by a 12.7-millimeter machine gun. It's not a mechanized battle group, already the bike shows you; well, you don't have to add one in. That's not what this is about. Politics has given some clear direction, parliament has said what it would like, but this has not been realized. But I'm not in favour of policy interfering with the military's professional decisions. Politics or the minister must say, "We want to have an army like that," and it is up to the generals or military personnel to do so, with the necessary financial resources and all the other support that must be on the political side. But it's not that politics will decide everything. The policy is to give guidance, and, more importantly, politics is, as far as the military is concerned, for control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u78	There's a proposaler, Master Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u79	This is the opinion we received from the President of the Republic, where he describes all things well inside. And if you get there somewhere on page 3 where the chapter on the ability of the Slovenian Armed Forces says well that the assessments are sufficient for peace and are insufficient in the case of crises and wars made on the basis of the report, Ambassador Dolinšek, prepared by the Slovenian Army. So much for this; when you replicate, you get involved, that's clear. As far as the methodology is concerned, I regret that you are defending the former JLA system, which had such a methodology that every year it could have said that readiness has increased and improved, even if it has not. What is the point of lying to ourselves? To say, "The Slovenian army is great and oh and at all," even though it's not. So if I understand you correctly, it is a problem of methodology, and we should have such a methodology that also outwardly shows that everything in the Slovenian Army is great. Because if we say everything's not great, then potential enemies can take us to the top. I don't have to agree with this rhetoric or this way of thinking. And those of you who have also troubled that it is unusual for the President of the Republic to say such things in public, then my head begins to spin, that or then you defend a lie? What, then, should the President of the Republic come to Parliament and say before this Parliament that everything is not great, even though the reports are non-binding? If we want to change things, then we'll have to realize the real situation first, but from there we can start building a new story.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u80	Replica, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u81	Mr Tonin, let me explain, I said the following around the methodology: "Let us not forget that in 2012 the Slovenian Armed Forces switched to a new assessment methodology, which means that it is significantly more difficult and is also comparable to that used in the alliance." That's what I said. I didn't use any comparisons with JLA, and I didn't say it was all the fault of this methodology. I read to you again what I said, so much. You probably didn't pay much attention. However, as for Mr Mahnič, I must also say that I have debated in my own name, not on behalf of SMC, so that this was my debate. I hope -- I don't know, but it says here the SMC board -- I'm not strong enough to represent 35 Members. In the beginning, however, I presented the SMC's position, so much for an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u82	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u83	It is true that in 2012 we changed the methodology, namely we only adapted it to NATO standards. And if you look very closely, you will find that once this methodology has changed, the assessments of the readiness of the Slovenian Army have also deteriorated significantly. So maybe in the past we've done something too superficial.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u84	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Slovenian Army, Minister! Of course, I'm having a little trouble right now. The military, the area of defense is not exactly my area to meet with, and I also have this problem that I am next to some debaters who are obviously or should meet for defence and military doctrine. However, I should be allowed to discuss this as a superficial expert. But I know so much that nothing in life is black and white and that even the dilemma in the military is not either butter or cannons, or just butter or just cannons, but probably something in between. It is not pleasant, even more, as far as I am concerned, it is sad to hear, and for the third year in a row, that the ability of the Slovenian Army to operate is poor, negative. In peacetime conditions, it is hardly satisfactory, in war situations, practically or on average, unsatisfying. Of course, 46 million, as recorded in the material we were able to obtain this year, could solve or significantly improve the situation in the Slovenian Army. 46 million is not coughing, and I wonder where this 46 million is or who will take this 46 million. However, I am pleased to see that the fact that the level of security is not too disproportionate or is not directly correlated, as the President of the State said, with the level of security itself. I would add to this that there is no direct correlation and permeability between the amount, between the means to be used for weapons and the level of capacity to function. I agree that security is not self-evident, it is not something that we would be laid down forever and forever, and that peace and security must be maintained by the state. On the side of the government, on the side of the army. Not just with guns. Of course, I understand security in the immediate sense of the word as some sort of security against some aggression, before some attack. To ensure security for all citizens and citizens that they can walk peacefully, that they can go to football games if you want them not to be directly threatened. However, I also understand security in a broader context, in a broader sense. I also understand security as social security, I understand security as economic security, if you want cultural security, and ultimately food security. And all this security, all these areas, of course, need to be kept in mind when funding is provided. I cannot imagine that, at the expense of defence, direct security, the rights of employees are being reduced in order to reduce the rights of the pensioners, to reduce the rights of the socially disadvantaged, to reduce the number of scholarships from this title, to reduce child allowances and also to list them. It has been said that standards are not fully achieved. I believe that they are not being reached, which of course is not positive. I wonder in which area — health, social, culture, education and possibly even perhaps — are these standards fully met? And that's no excuse for not meeting military standards. I understand the security system or the security mechanism, if I may express myself in some way like an integrated system, an integrated mechanism. And if Slovenia is a member of NATO at this time, of course, we could reasonably expect this to be provided under the auspices of this military association, otherwise, if not, then we can probably ask ourselves on a reasonable basis what we have from NATO. Or perhaps an alternative to NATO, to Slovenia's NATO membership in terms of neutrality, to Austria, Switzerland, Sweden and so on and so forth? I apologize for speaking a little bit to the President of the Defence Committee, Comrade Mahnic; he had a little mockery about Desus and said it was very funny that Desus could see an opportunity in the budget or in 2017. Of course, opportunities are always and always. The possibility is also in the budget, in the budget balance, if it occurs, also this year 2016. But again the question and dilemma, to whom and how much to take and what to do with it in terms of collateral damage. I'm advocating a strategic review of the defence system. I commit myself to drawing up a timetable for all necessary activities and for medium- and long-term activities. I also advocate that the basic normative documents of the defence system be recast; the Defence Act was mentioned earlier by Dolinšek and I think that this is already being done, if my information is correct, is a matter of public debate. Above all, I am committed to adapting or adapting the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia in the light of the possibilities available or the ability to place it within a realistic financial framework, taking into account all internal reserves, any internal reserves, all available financial resources. Above all, this is at the end, but not at all of the least important, but it is necessary to ensure for all the employees, for all the soldiers, that, under no circumstances, their health, social and other safety will not be compromised and that, if I may say so, they will not be harmed and that, if I may say so, they will not be harmed. On conclusion. I want the Slovenian Army all the good, truly all the good, because I truly appreciate it and truly respect it. For many reasons. Last but not least, when natural disasters occur, when Slovenia is suppressed before challenges, it would be nice to say that the migrant crisis and the military are coming to the rescue and do what needs to be done. I also appreciate it for two other reasons: I appreciate it because I regard it as one of the fundamental stones of Slovenian independence in 1991, and I especially appreciate it as an institution, as a defence force, based on the extraditions and values of the partisan Slovenian squads, which have earned freedom to the Slovenian nation in a glorious national liberation fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u86	Replicas have priority, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Pikl said that they did not understand in Desus where to take so much money or where to take the money for the army at all very easily, because I said, Mr Prikl, take it from the migrant line. [[…]] 123 million are spent on migrants; if you take 46 pages you have 77 left, which I think 77 million is too much. And you will not believe that if you take 46 million away from the migrant line, there will be exactly as much money left for children in the budget as it is for Slovenian health, exactly as much money in the budget as it is for pensioners, exactly as much money in the budget as it is in the budget, because what is that item is really just an item for the greatest social engineering after the fall of the three-week evil, it is called fascism, Nazism and communism, which has been a failure of social engineering for each other and unfortunately is happening today at the expense of taxpayers on our soil. [[…]] As you say, if you take it there, for everything else — for health care, for social, for children, for education, for pensioners — there will be just as much money left for them in your budget now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u88	First of all, you have the word of a proposaler. Mr. Jean-Mahnich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u89	Thank you. Given what Mr. Prikl said, this is where the problem comes in. Mr. Prikl said, "We're in NATO, because then he'll defend us if anything happens, but if then it's not that, then it doesn't matter that we're even there." I agree here, but in one case, if we were to fulfill all those commitments that we made to her and that we have also given to NATO. However, it must be said that a referendum was held to join NATO; 66% of voters decided then to go to this organisation, 66% not. And even if there was a referendum today, I'm sure there'd still be more than half of us for being in Nate. But just taking it out of this organization and not giving it back, but it's not going to work. However, I already – I think we had a vote last week on whether or not the President of the Republic will come – clearly stated that it is not just about NATO for a long time, because we must start relying on ourselves in particular. As far as relying on ourselves is concerned, only this, again a little for the demanta, even before someone said, "the chief knows, the chief will say". Meeting of the Defence Committee, 10 March, Chief of Staff General Osterman: "Yes, the Slovenian Armed Forces can carry out all these tasks under an extremely low military budget, this can only be done with extreme rational behaviour at all levels – from the department of soldiers, battalions, regiments, to the General Staff. With regard to the resources envisaged in the Central Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2016-2020, I believe that these are too small and below the level necessary to ensure that the new, more demanding capacities of the Slovenian Armed Forces are adequately developed and that the equipment used is replaced in a timely manner, which is a condition for ensuring the necessary readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces." If you don't believe the President of the Republic, trust the Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u90	Replica, Mr. Urosh Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u91	There is likely to be a rebalancing of the budget for 2016, which is nothing out of the ordinary. We will see at that moment; if funds for migrants are too much, so if they remain, they will probably be able to transfer these funds with great ease for the needs of the Slovenian Army. It may come to light, though, that I do not want to think of any other item that will not be used or needed, but it will come from there. But now we're talking. You know, it's very easy to say, "it's taken here, it's taken away from the road, it's taken away from this, it's taken to another, so we don't need so many social transfers," but it's speaking in mind. I have initially said that my knowledge is not as high as the knowledge of some Members on the right side of Parliament, so I allow some oversimplification on my part. But I didn't say, Jean, that if we're already in Nat, then he'll defend us or we'll go out. I didn't say that, if you understood that, I have to deny it, it's not like that. I wondered, or thought, that the security system, the security mechanism is an integral matter, an integral part, which is, of course, under the auspices of NATO, these military associations, and I asked myself quite simply, you know, in every matter, one wonders how much money there is, what the benefits are, what the risks, what the damage is. [[...]] And when you look at it through some financial means, you just ask yourself: so much and so much we give for membership, so much and so much we should give for it, the third thing; is it not possible to think about neutrality at last? That's all I was asking myself. But I assumed that what I said about the enobe would be more disturbing, and I'm very happy that you're not here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u92	Once again, they have the floor before Mr Jozet Tank. Magus first. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u93	Ambassador Prikl, in his debate, drew very little of what could have happened if the military had given the 46 million euros. Even so, it turned out to be a little less than a threatened social state. But at least if you listened carefully to this debate today, no one said that you would take money for the Slovenian Army on the side of social transfers, but at least two sources were mentioned, which had nothing to do with it – one was migrants and another subsidy. So it's pure truth. Another thing about Nate; obviously, we are people who are aware of only rights and not enough duties, and also the NATO alliance means not just and only justice, but also duty. But the important thing is that we share something, and what is too much for us to do for them, and we do some other thing for us. I will read only one sentence to you or two sentences from the NATO review of our capabilities, where they say: "The share that Slovenia intends to purchase equipment is completely disproportionate; the existing equipment is very likely to be tackled, which will further deteriorate the capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces mainly for the short and medium term.", Mr. Prikl, and here they add: "Until then, the other members of the Alliance will most likely continue to bear the Slovenian share of the burden." So we're getting more from Nate today than we're investing in him. Ambassador Prikl also thought about our potential neutrality; believe me, this neutrality for Slovenia would be much more expensive than today’s membership in NATO. This can give you a calculation of any neutral country, how much they are nominally using and what all defence and security systems we do not need. And another issue – it has been very exposed many times today, including as a potential solution to the current situation, the re-introduction of the recruitment system. I recall that, as a temporary member of the first term, I asked the Chief of Staff at the time, I had an idea, "what if we reintroduced the mandatory service of military service for all young people, when they graduate from high school, a three-month period before they go to college, without losing a single school year?" And then they explained to me that the billboard system wasn't free, and the billboard system wasn't free. They are for accommodation, for equipment, for training, and all these matters should be kept in mind when we talk about such matters. Perhaps, however, one of the interesting solutions discussed by former Minister Jelusic is to reintroduce a national duty or obligation for all, men and women to do something for their country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u94	Mr Jan Mahnic, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u95	Thank you, President. Now I have to go back to my colleague, Prickle, as far as spending is concerned. He said, "Don't think about it." If anyone's talking to me, it's Mr. Prickl. I don't know when you're going to go to work a budget rebalancing, whether it's from 17, or it's going to be 18; 19 will be new anyway. But proof that you are speaking in mind, and I am not, is a sentence on page 6 of the SOPR adopted by the Government two months ago: "For the purpose of balancing public finances, the medium-term financial projection from 2016 to 2017 will not guarantee a minimum nominal growth in defence expenditure." That's a fact, Mr. Prickl, not to speak in mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u96	Mr Jože Tanko, as last reported in the general debate, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Given the importance of the topic that we are considering today, I would expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose this topic and that the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar, would also sit here. If the government hadn't proposed this, and obviously not, a coalition could have done it, say, SMC and SD, just like you did in some irrelevant law on the status change of Lipice. We could have done that easily. In view of the fact that you voted to have the President of the Republic come here, I would still respectfully expect the President of the Government to be here, at least at the time when it comes to the most important thing in the country. This is said to ensure the security of the Republic of Slovenia. If this is such a trivial matter for the President of the Government, then I understand all of your discussions, none of which were based on the information presented by the General Staff or taken by the President of the Republic in his report. None of the discussions were based on arguments, on data that were available to us in one way or another. Which I think is a very big problem. The other thing that seems quite problematic to me is that the Minister did not come forward at the time and no one else did and agreed to the debate to comment on these many coalition nebulosis that have emerged in individual debates. It would seem very reasonable to me that a representative of the government would spend what someone spends as an eccentric lie as a piece of information that he does not hold to comment and demente. For all the foundations for such activity and for such a response are given, and the time was sufficient. I think that's bad. Maybe I should just go back to what we suggested. We have proposed four recommendations. It is the first to ensure EUR 46 million, the second to prepare a strategic review of defence to the NATO Summit in Warsaw and on the basis of concrete proposals and commitments to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army. The third recommendation proposed the preparation of a timely action plan for the establishment of a medium battalion unit, and in the fourth recommendation raised restrictions on entry into employment in the Slovenian Army. That's what we suggested. In view of this, the Government has drawn up its opinion on these recommendations and has written: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposed recommendation does not offer comprehensive systemic solutions to improve the state of the defence system and is unnecessary or not feasible in relation to the activities already presented by the Government." That's the government's position. Now I also ask the Minister present, how did the vote take place in the Government? Was this decision to adopt this opinion in the Government agreed or not agreed? Because it doesn't say anything about it, and nobody's commenting on it. In our proposals, we have not proposed anything that is unreal. The proof is that before we came to the realization of this decision or the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, the Government raised the restriction on employment in the Slovenian Army. This is proof that the proposals are not inconclusive and unfulfilled. In order to prepare future plans and plans for training the military for these purposes, it is a normal business decision; for each company to be restructured it is a basic document, including for the Slovenian Army. And I'd say, that's the attitude of the government, I think, nicely put, completely depressed. Instead of doing everything to prepare these documents to ensure resources and conditions, all the suggestions that are necessary — those who make business plans, you know, or you have done them, to banalize them or to reject them. If this goes on, the Slovenian Army will essentially turn into a real estate company. She'll have one bunch of inactive plots, she'll have one bunch of inactive walled, or, I'll say, metal objects or hal, she'll have a bunch of useless military equipment, ammunition and other things, and at the same time she'll become a bunch of non-powerful mobile equipment. That's what's gonna happen. And I can't, I'd say, given these views, which were presented both by the majority in the coalition and by the government's opinion, just to find out that the military is becoming more and more real estate in this country. When it's not equipped practically for anything. We're maintaining some system with mostly poorly paid soldiers, and that's it. It is also sub-capitalised there in all areas, in all comparative categories. If this analysis hadn't been done according to NATO standards, it would have been done domestically, that's for sure. And thank God that it had to be done according to NATO standards, that we have reached even the right assessment in this area. That we even know where we are. And since we know where we are, all the alarms should be ringing in front of the Prime Minister. For the situation as it is is indeed a disgrace to this country and to the promises it makes to representatives of international institutions. Those commitments made by the Prime Minister of the Government, I don't know, Stoltenberg or whoever was visiting us at the time, have some status as an international treaty. Such an obligation given by the President of the Government has such a status in international law. And the President of the Government is obviously able to swallow the word very quickly at home and abroad, which is actually even worse. Given that you're all talking about money; money is more than enough. My friend Grimes told me where he was and where we don't need him if we're doing the right thing. You have already set up a company called Slovenian National Forests this year. Completely unnecessary, €40 million invested in this project. You see what's going on, and it's just the beginning. It's not the only project. You've got a whole bunch of contracts, like that, and you've got a whole bunch of money disappearing into the recapitalisation of state property, which should be bringing gold eggs, but don't do anything or block all attempts to do anything about it. All the attempts. As regards liability, as regards checks, procedures, court proceedings and so on. So you don't have to talk about it completely. Now the problem is that you're obviously only powered by what Mr. Brglez said at the national celebration, the "living Liberation Front". I think if it's true that it's so good, dig up only those victims, at least those victims that came from the Liberation Front after the war, to count it once, to measure the problem and then call it forward. Otherwise, at a national celebration, it would be appropriate to say only "live Slovenia". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u98	Let me first inform, and officially, that the Prime Minister of the Government has apologized with the ministers for the regular meeting. A representative of the proposer still took part in the general debate, Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u99	Yes, thank you, President. I don't have much left, but before we start listening to how everything is oh and even great I've already mentioned the interview of Deputy Chief General General Gedder; just a little something short of what he was saying. [[...]] All those who are trying to draw attention to the very serious situation in the Slovenian Army, and I am among them, say that the situation is catastrophic. Some still cite some arguments that the situation is not so bad, and we have listened to them today. Question: "What are the current minimum reserves of equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces?" Answer: "The Slovenian Army no longer has minimum reserves." "What does this mean for the country?"then the reporter asked him. "Today we understand the reserves a little differently than we used to. Even at the time of the former state, the army built huge warehouses with huge quantities of equipment and ammunition. We are no longer doing this, but there must still be minimum reserves that allow fighting for a certain period of time. In fact, we no longer have to provide these financial resources, nor do we have to provide the ammunition we need for the direct training of soldiers." So there's no ammunition. What the Chief of Staff has said, I have read earlier what the position of the President of the Republic is clear. What, then, is the record of this government? When it came to power for an army of 300 million, in 2015 – 263, in 2016 – 267, 2017 – 269, these are data. I have already said how it was with international membership: €5 million was higher for the military at the expense of international membership and the obligation was 2.5 million higher. So, actually, from the government of Mira Cerar for 2016, it's still €2.5 million down. In 2019 and 2020 we will stay with all 12 Bell helicopters. Battle vehicles we had – 283; for write-offs were 2015 – 27, 2017 – 52. Education in 2014 – 1.8 million, in 2015 – 1.6 million. Sagittarius – in 2014 the soldier fired an average of 441 rounds, in 2015 323 rounds. As far as military exercises are concerned, the 2015 reality: from the planned 82 - 58 exercises, in 2014 from the planned 67 - 47, that is to say, a few more exercises, but a bigger plan of how many will be. The permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces has changed under the government of Mira Cerarj 2014 2015 to minus 121 members, contractual reserve for minus 419. In short, the claims that the situation is improving have been rejected today, and what has been rejected has been repeatedly repeated that the Government of Mira Cerar has succeeded in halting the trend of falling financial resources for defence-related troops. I don't know if you're going to do the rebalancing or not, the fact is, it doesn't go on like this anymore. But you are the one who will ultimately be responsible for not doing anything to improve the Slovenian Army in four years, despite the fact that you could, but above all that you should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u100	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which there is also a representative of the Government and one representative of the proposer, who still has time. Ms Andreja Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u101	Thank you, distinguished President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will try to answer or somehow comment on most of those who were touched this afternoon. First of all, thank you very much for all your great performances. We have spoken many times on the Defence Committee; I said that we had, correct me, President, 34 emergency meetings, and therefore I believe that the National Assembly is aware of the importance of the defence area, even in the light of everything that has been said today regarding the changed security situation. All governments, such was the conclusion on the committee, left and right were treated the same in the past to the Slovenian Army. I have to comment on Mr Pojbič's statement; I believe that I have already shown by my work so far that I appreciate the dialogue, that I am talking to everyone, and I have already said many times that everyone is advising me for free and I am evaluating the value of advice. It is difficult in one year to replace manoeuvring in the human, financial, organisational field, in all other important aspects, which ensure adequate preparedness of the defence system. The Provoje project, the professionalization of the Slovenian Army, has not been completed as it should have been, and all those who today comment on the current situation and who also have the credit for it. In addition to the defence system, I cannot touch the other two important security systems, the right protection against natural disasters is no other accident, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, which is also in the Ministry of Defence, thereby also Civil Protection, and of course the Slovenian police. I've been citing the facts. I propose that we shrink our strengths and take a step forward within the given options. I accept constructive criticism, I want to coordinate, but I don't want hypocrisy to be at the expense of that. At the Ministry of Defence, in the Slovenian Army, in the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, we are trying to reach together with you, Members and Members, as well as with the professional public, to make a strategic review of the defence as it must be to make a real programme for the next period and we are also committed to making important and necessary changes to the existing legislation. Of course, within available options and, of course, also thoughtfully, because we know that no government will compensate in one year for the deficits it has accumulated over the past years. But nobody touched what I pointed out at the outset: how to ensure that all governments provide a stable source of funding for all pillars of security in the Republic of Slovenia; I am talking about the Slovenian Army, the protection and rescue and the Slovenian police. And here I can probably join the appeal of all the ministers before me, both the defence ministers and the interior ministers, to achieve this. I have to complete the statement on the proposal for the Defence Act as well as the amendments to the other legislation. This is not only the work of my team at the Ministry of Defence at this time, but also the work of all past ministries, ministers and their teams. And they are also grateful that we have also prepared this text of the Defence Act, which is now in public, on the basis of the starting points they have drawn up, as corrected by the present ones. When a comment was made on who convened this meeting, the Government, at the same time, took note of a summary of the report on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces with proposals for action. [[…]] The purpose was to familiarise the Government with this, then to refer it to the Committee on Defence, and on this basis we are moving on. With regard to the consideration of the strategic review of the defence. The Strategic Review of Defence is a process that takes place in the event of major changes in the international security environment or in the case of identified indicators that point to the need for a changed base, resources, organisation or functioning of the defence system. And I believe that these circumstances have now taken place, thanks to all the governments of the past. The main objective of the strategic review is to set out the measures and activities necessary to ensure the preparedness and defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the orientations of the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the Resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025, and the ambitions and objectives resulting from the objectives of the NATO 2013 capacity targets for the Republic of Slovenia, the Action Plan for Preparedness and other NATO and the European Union documents. The implementation of the Defence Strategic Review shall take into account the key national standards and development and guidance documents as well as the NATO and European Union documents. Given that the question was whether or not the purpose of the strategic review was to link the defence system to other security systems. Given the fact that the defence system connects with other systems, national security subsystems in the exercise of its mission, the strategic review of defence will also be aligned with them. And I would just like to summarize or list the structures covered by the state analysis as the first part of the strategic defence review. We will touch on the strategic security environment, the interests and objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in the defence field, the role and purpose and organisation of the defence system, defence policy and planning, the development of defence capabilities, the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the national and international environment, equipment and infrastructure, the readiness to defend and respond to crises in the defence field, doctrines, standards and concepts, the organisational structures of the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces, human resources, skills development, education and training of defence expenditure and, of course, conclusions. And as I said in the introduction, based on the analysis, proposals for measures and solutions will be proposed. On the basis of this analysis, plans for the implementation of measures and activities to address identified shortcomings will also be proposed, a timetable or a timetable, as set out by one of the Members. And, of course, the conclusions in the intersectoral coordination will also be proposed for adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I do not think it is good that we are changing the spirit, but we need to plan, plan and implement this in a way that is as important as the Ministry of Defence, even in relation to other security pillars. As far as finance is concerned, the role of all past governments is unfortunately clear. The financial plan of the Ministry of Defence decreased by 38 % between 2010 and 2015. The defence component of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan decreased by 41% in all areas during the same period. It is also important to note that, in addition to the nominal reduction in the period 2010 to 2015, the share of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan has also decreased significantly within the overall national budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2015, it represented 3,51 % and, as a positive result, it can be seen that in 2016 and 2017, the financial plan adopted foresees an increase in the share of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan throughout the national budget to 3,65 %. As a result of the reimbursement of the costs incurred in the migration crisis response activities and additional resources from the divestment of non-performing assets, the mobile and immobile budget of the Ministry of Defence increased by a weak of 14 million between 2016 and 1 May, which also contributes significantly to the rise in defence expenditure. So if, according to Umar's latest forecast, we can say that the defence expenditure as a percentage of GDP was 0,94 in 2015, now with everything I mentioned earlier in the presentation and now, we are planning to increase the defence expenditure at the expense of all the additional funds at the circus 0,96% of GDP in 2016. The question was about the internal structure of expenditure; of course, with all financial constraints, the internal structure of defence expenditure also changed negatively. If I sum up what this means, it is divided into three key parts in the grave: the first part is staff costs, the second part is operational costs, including the operation and maintenance of material and technical assets and infrastructure, and the third part is investment costs, in particular the acquisition of material and technical assets, construction and so on. In 2016, these percentages did not change significantly according to the previous year. However, we have to say that it is a small shift, but it still means moving up from 2014 to 2014, when it was for purchases and construction, when it was only 1% for equipment, we came to 2.1% for modernisation in 2015; minimally, but still. In particular, in relation to what has been said, how do we aim to achieve the objective set out in SOPR 2016-2022. A significant improvement in the internal structure of defence expenditure is planned by 2020 as the share of staff costs is expected to decrease significantly and the share of costs for procurement and construction – from 2.1% to 15.4 in 2020. We believe that in the future planning period, I am talking about the percentage, the internal structure of defence expenditure should be improved mainly by increasing costs for procurement and construction and not by reducing the volume of the Slovenian Army, but in particular by improving the situation of soldiers. We must also take into account that significant financial resources have already been invested in the provision of the existing level of scope and competence of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the past. And as I said in the introduction, in the 2017 balance, I expect support. But I can't help but face reality, and that is why we have a real strategic defence programme ahead of us for the next period. About Nate's grade. She was exposed several times today. Then, as part of its regular review of the defence of the Alliance, we presented it to the Committee at its 21st emergency meeting in early December, and the assessment was clearly critical in a certain part, but the shortcomings exposed are not surprising and they are, or the consequences, highlighted since the beginning of 2010 when the reduction of financial resources for the defence area began. We must be honest to say that the assessments of a significant part of NATO's other members are also critical in the same key areas, namely, the undernutrition of defence funding in the Member States and the achievement of 2% of GDP, the delay in capacity-building, the internal structure of defence expenditure and the lack of ambition to participate in international operations and missions, and so on. There is no way, however, that the Republic of Slovenia is an unworthy member of NATO, since, among other things, NATO's assessments for the Republic of Slovenia have been commended for our contributions to international operations and missions and the establishment of some of the so-called ‘s. However, in recent years we have established niche capacities that go beyond our national needs in order to fill the NATO gap. The Republic of Slovenia also participates in the various international initiatives and projects of NATO, the EU, the UN and other international organisations in which it realizes its security interests, defence interests and also contributes to international order and peace. About the PPRS. At the end of last year, 301 contractual members of the Slovenian Armed Forces reserve were called for the completion of 200 seats in Units 1, 72 and Logistic Brigades. In early January, 121 eligible members of the contractual reserve staff who received decisions to carry out their military service in peace began to serve as military service. They carried out the tasks of protecting the Slovenian Armed Forces facilities, reporting and surveillance services and logistical support. And if we compare the number in the previous year and today: at the end of 2015 we had 731 contractual members of the reserve, today there are 813. 121 were summoned; the number of downfalls is still 27 today. The comment was also about the employment and status of soldiers after 45 years. The rights of soldiers who are no longer able to extend contracts in the Slovenian Army due to the age of 45 are regulated by both the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. The system regime provides for a series of rights allowing soldiers to seek other employment under more favourable conditions than those in force on the labour market. On the basis of those rules, they shall be granted the following rights: the right to be allocated to the relevant works in the Ministry or in another national authority. If there are no spare parts of this indent in the Ministry or other State authority, the previous indent, the soldier shall have the right to be trained for the civil profession and the right to retirement if he has worked in the Ministry for at least 15 years. If there is no free work in the Ministry or other State authority to which a soldier could be deployed, but the termination of the employment contract does not wish to be trained for a civil profession by means of education or retraining, he may be employed by any other employer. In this case, the soldier has the right to a pension, and the employer who employs such a soldier for at least five years at the latest within one year of the termination of the contract in the Ministry has the right to pay the contributions from the salary and to pay for the Ministry's first three years of employment, or for 5 years if he employs a soldier for 10 years. The Ministry may also agree that, in addition to the termination of the employment contract at the Ministry, the Ministry will receive one more amount of funds paid to the employer within 5 years as a refund on contributions from the salary and the salary paid to the soldier. Experience so far shows the need for existing solutions to be complemented in certain parts. In the context of the reform of public sector service legislation, as I said in the introduction, we are working to implement solutions that will allow soldiers who complement a legal age to transform a fixed working relationship into a fixed working relationship, without public competition or publication, when assigned to the Ministry or another state authority. However, in the context of the envisaged amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act, we are trying to eliminate the anomaly when soldiers, when reassigned to another job, lose all advances in the pay grade to another wage group. So far, due to the small number of such soldiers, the problem has not been highlighted, as it has been possible for all soldiers who wanted to do so to arrange for other jobs within the Ministry or other state authorities, of course under less favourable conditions, with the salaries they had in the military. In the coming years, this will no longer be possible because of a significant increase in the number of soldiers who will reach the age of 45. The analysis of data shows that in the Slovenian Army, if all currently employed soldiers extend the contract until the age of 45, the number of these soldiers will increase significantly over the next five years. In 2015-2019, an average of 30 soldiers will be added annually to the current situation and between 2019 and 2025 the annual number will increase from 80 to 200, representing at least 100 soldiers annually who will not be able to extend the contract of employment for soldiers. There's no problem at the moment. But we are looking far ahead, also because of the career path in the Slovenian Army, also due to the important entry into the Slovenian Army. It is therefore also agreed within the Government to form a special working group, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, which would formulate a proposal to complement systemic solutions and employment or redistribution of soldiers by 45. During the year, and those officers and subordinates who will not be extended employment contracts in the Slovenian Army in order to form the relevant structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The introduction to the debate also mentioned that the only investment in real estate in the Churches was in real estate. Notwithstanding the fact that we have already discussed the report on real estate management and investment in more detail on the Defence Committee, it could only touch on this area quickly. The Ministry of Defence is 18 years old. 2. 2016 6056 plots, 2037 properties, 1029 dwellings, 166 dwellings, which are in use of the Housing Fund, public fund and are transferred to that fund or municipalities in which they are located on the basis of a decision of the Government following the regulation of the land register. In 2013, the Ministry submitted 22 proposals to the Government for the free transfer of property to a self-regulatory local community and agreed to transfer 4 properties. In 2014, the Ministry did not propose to the Government any free transfer to the local self-government community, and in 2015 it gave its consent to implement the free transfer under the Act on the Promotion of coherent regional development. Even now, as we have discussed on the Committee, it will be actively working on this. As far as renting is concerned, the Ministry has 66 leases for real estate, of which 29 contracts for free rent or free use with mountain companies, the Red Cross of Slovenia, veterans of war for Slovenia, companies with the status of society in the public interest and municipalities. The rent income was EUR 271 000 300 in 2015. The Ministry did not have the cost of maintaining the properties leased in 2015. The dwellings of the Housing Fund shall be issued in accordance with the Staff Regulations of the Slovenian Armed Forces if they remain unoccupied, including other servants of the Ministry, other state bodies, family members of the fallen members of the Territorial Defence in the war on Slovenia. In the event that they remain unoccupied, the divestment procedure shall be initiated. The Ministry has spent its full resources on current and investment maintenance and on the payment of operating costs and costs related to the management of dwellings. The financial resources derived from the rental of commercial dwellings and the sale of non-performing and financial assets are, in accordance with our rules, intended for emergency purchases, construction, renovation and investment and ongoing maintenance of real estate and movable property in the management of the Ministry. In the last period, the earmarked funds were used for the payment of compensation, replacement of building furniture, investment maintenance of military facilities, construction of a gym in the Kranj military, construction of an antenna tower, construction of the Škrilj shooting site, payment of the share in the construction of the Cerklje ob Krka infrastructure, renovation of the building in Postojna military, replacement of building furniture, renovation of sanitary facilities in military barracks and planned activities in this year. By selling non-performing real estates, the Ministry has in recent years had an important source of funds for current and investment maintenance of promising real estates. These funds have even exceeded the funding provided in the regular budget in recent years. The Ministry has joined in the preparation of all tasks for the transfer of non-performing real estates and has also accelerated sales activities with a view to obtaining additional financial resources for the purposes of current and investment maintenance of real estate in 2016 and 2017. Currently, the Ministry of Defence implements the following major infrastructure projects: reconstruction of the facility in the military post for the needs of the Training Centre in the total square 3 000 100 square metres, the value of the concluded contract is €2.6 million; the renovation of the airport of Cerklje ob Krka, the value of the project is estimated at €7.6 million; the funds are provided by NATO; the contractors are Slovenian companies, to ensure conditions and to prepare measures for the second purpose of use of the airport, namely the use of the airport for civil purposes, coordination between MORS, MGRT and MZI; the Brnik Air Command and Control System, this year's construction works are expected to be built on the site of the Centre for the Control and Control of the Air Area of Brnik; the construction of the infrastructure is estimated at € 1,2 million; the currently under way to provide 75 % of NATO's assets; the works must be completed in the Office for the construction of the EUR million infrastructure, and the construction of the construction of the construction of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the first quarter of 2016; and the construction of the construction of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the year is currently in 2016; and the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the capital of the current part of the capital of the current of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence is currently carried out in the Ministry of Defence. We also have plans for the period 2018 to 2023. And with regard to the energy rehabilitation of buildings – the Ministry has also actively participated in energy rehabilitation projects in government management. Currently, the first energy rehabilitation project of the total square site 2 thousand 700 square metres is being implemented in the final phase. In 2016, the Ministry is planning to renovate boilers in Ankaran and Postojna military barracks, followed by the energy rehabilitation of other military facilities. For the implementation of the pilot projects, the Ministry has already provided funds derived from the sale of immovable and movable property. However, it is expected that these funds can later be obtained from so-called cohesion funds. It is estimated that investment investments will be reimbursed within 4 to 5 years and savings will be earmarked for the purchase of other military equipment and weapons. Perhaps even with regard to the PPRS and the National Guard; we also discussed this and I welcomed the debate because this means improving the contractual members of the Slovenian Army. Each military organisation has a permanent and spare composition or different compositions. That's the way it is with us. Military service can be carried out in the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also through voluntary military service, voluntary contractual back-up and, in special circumstances, following the activation of the concept of the military strategic reserve, also in this structure. I believe that there will be time for consideration of this at the time of the consideration of the Defence Act, even when the measures of the Strategic Review of Defence are being considered. However, as far as the contractual reserve is concerned, the contractual reserve situation has been reached in 2008. However, the scope of voluntary military service was provided at the level of about 300 volunteers. By restricting financial resources, the situation of around 600 members of the contractual reserve has begun to decline. PPRS members were even deployed to KFOR operations in Kosovo. The radical cut started in 2012 when the contractual reserve began to fall by more than 200 members per year and from the second half of 2012 their training decreased to a minimum, and the pay for preparedness also decreased. In the last few years, voluntary military service has also decreased to less than 100 candidates. This trend continued until the beginning of this year, when the migration crisis has led to the decision to complete the contractual reserve by the end of the year with up to a thousand 500 members, which is also reflected in the new medium-term defence programme. I think there will be plenty of time and opportunity to talk about such a difficult area, but I think it is also good that we are talking about this together, to coordinate, and we also expect support for the consideration of proposals and measures in the strategic review of the defence under way, in the proposal for the Defence Act, the amendment of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and, of course, in all future budgets. Above all, it is possible to reconsider once again the most important topic for me – how to ensure that all pillars of national security have a stable source of funding in the future and that Parliament's decisions will respect all governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u102	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? All right, I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater shall have five minutes. Mr. Joseph Horvath first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u103	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Once again, I welcome Mrs Minister, Secretary of State and Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and in some ways thank you for insisting on these few hours, and I hope that all three of you have understood that you have the support of the opposition New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party as regards the improvement of the situation in the Slovenian Army. But I stopped by mainly because I was very concerned about a matter; I would not appoint a Member; I listened to it in the office above, because I no longer knew whether it was a democracy or not, or whether it was a schizophrenic or what it was, so I came down and counted on time sharing. Ladies and gentlemen, last July we adopted the Declaration on Slovenian Foreign Policy. In the first performance, I have talked a lot about this, and now all I am saying is that, according to the referendum decision of citizens and citizens of this country, we have decided to join Slovenia in NATO. In March 2003 this referendum was held, a poor million people came to vote and two-thirds people, we decided to join NATO. But today we are hearing from a coalition MP, that, however, we should think about an alternative to a relationship, then we should be independent or whatever, unlisted or whatever, I don't know if such views have a United Left, O.K., but see that this comes from a coalition, and here I clearly say that it is schizophrenia. [[…]] The ink we have been writing the Declaration on Slovenian Foreign Policy has almost dried up, and today we would be going out of NATO and so on, and it is an example to us in Austria, for example. Yes, I am the one of the Members who, in some cases, gives Austria an example, but in many cases it is necessary to look at the numbers and the situation regarding defence in Austria. I'm sure here, Madam Minister and Commissioner General Staff could talk about this a lot. Austria had a defence budget of EUR 2.5 billion in 2012. Then, of course, they were struck by the crisis, and they cut it down, they came up with a little under 2 billion. And if we are looking at the 2012 level and considering that the Austrians are about four times more than the Slovenians – and the defence system is probably to protect people and especially people – then our budget should be 600 million. Okay, can we do this? And even more, I don't want to encourage this to be an international incident right now, I'm just reading data so that Austria can hire foreign aircraft, even write their media, following the example of Slovenia, but the problem is that Slovenia is in NATO and Austria is not. But it doesn't matter to Austria that much. We worry, however, and here we are, the 90 of us here has the responsibility to take care of our defence system, and that, however, the documents we accept here must probably be the first for us Members to defend; when they are accepted, they are accepted – I mean, of course, the Declaration of Slovenian Foreign Policy. And now, of course, it's very nice to say, "but if we went out, we would have trampled the referendum two-thirds decision, and then we would have saved our entire defence system or budget or something." Please, not like that, that was my purpose for this show, not like that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u104	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u105	But all political and social science agrees on one thing. It is that every policy must be based on values; a policy without values is fascism. It is therefore only a question of what values we give priority to and, of course, whether these values are real or false values. A policy based on false values is also fascism. And all the problems that we've highlighted here today from different angles of view are a reflection of different understandings of values, and some, unfortunately, also false values. The question that has been asked all the time – where to take the 46 million, the most urgently needed by the Slovenian Army – is in fact perfectly clear, logical; 123 million in this budget is intended for migrants, for social experiment, for social engineering, which after the defeat of three weeks of totalitarian evil – Nazism, fascism and communism – is the greatest social engineering in the history of Europe, and which, if realized, means the end of modern, democratic, Christianity and enlightenment and respect for the human rights of a modern association of Europe. And of course, any money that's meant to do this is a shame. This is about fake humanism. This has been beautifully demonstrated now by what the European Commission itself, which, according to the news, is no longer doing this as a help, let's help people, but now it is forcing people to do so – if one country does not take one migrant, it will pay a quarter of a million euros in fines. Wait, what kind of help is this after the new one? It's called forced multiculturalism. But where it goes, you can look in Brussels, Paris, Cologne and all the other places where unheard crimes have taken place in the last period. And what happens if we take 46 million from the migrant line? There are still 77 million left because, in my personal opinion, given the fact that I just explained, 77 million is too much. But 46 million, you will not believe, then not the burden of Slovenian health care, nor of Slovenian education, remains exactly the same for children, for health care, for education, for social, for pensioners, as is now intended in the budget, because it is really an unnecessary and absurd cost. The cost, which in fact leads to the destruction of Europe on the basis of social engineering, under the cover of false humanism. And now it's just a matter of values, what we give priority to – whether we give priority to our people, citizens and citizens, if you want, to children, pensioners who have paid 40 years into the budget, or whether we give priority to foreigners, or to some interstate association that just expresses some other expectations, because it follows some other goals. I personally believe that any reasonable, real-valued state will give priority to its people and will give priority first to their security, because security is a fundamental condition for everything else. Without security, there is no successful economy. Without security, there is no prosperity. There is no human health. And as a result, it is possible to do this reassignment literally overnight, only a little good will is required. And before that, it is necessary to return the army, the Slovenian Army, to those original foundations, on those values on which the independent state of Slovenia has emerged, because these are the only real solid foundations on which you can build your nation, your country, your success, your prosperity in the long term. What does that mean in practice? There is no more reason for any self-incrimination; Slovenia has done no harm to anyone and, of course, it owes no one anything, because it has not attacked anyone, only defended itself once, and it has succeeded. And that is precisely why now that the holidays are coming, there are only one reasons: for pride, for success in winning for Slovenia and for the restoration of all those values that we have established together at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u106	Ms Andrej Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u107	Yes, thank you, President, because in fact I forgot to touch another area, the question was how to determine the readiness of the Slovenian Army. Here are the documents, both ours and the Nats. Perhaps I would only say this because there was also a question: soldiers and soldiers, members of the Slovenian Army and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, I believe that, according to my assessment, even you, the others are also judged by excellentness. The assessment is excellent if all areas except two are rated with an excellent rating and these do not have a lower rating than good. The assessment is good if the conditions for the evaluation are not met and at most one area is assessed by sufficient and insufficiently assessed areas. The assessment is sufficient if the assessment conditions are not met for good or good and more than one area is assessed by an assessment sufficient and insufficiently assessed areas. And the assessment is insufficient if one or more areas are assessed by an underestimation. So it's high standards, and it's the same. Let me just say this: in addition to everything I have listed, what was presented, we may not have said that we are also running a crisis management project in the Ministry of Defence in the framework of government projects, which I think will be in front of you in the second half of this year or at least in 2017, as well as a project for the protection of critical infrastructure. However, let me take this opportunity to take this opportunity in our joint assessment – I think I can say this – to thank all members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the excellent performance of their work both at home and abroad and also for the promotion of the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-05-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u108	This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. I note that no case has been foreseen for this item on the agenda, and I conclude it. I also conclude the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
