ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Maruša Škopac, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mag. Ange Logar, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Branislav Rajić and Mr Ljubo Žnidar until 13:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Social Security Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the group of 11 Members and Members with the first Magi signed is a group of 11 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, good morning! The month of January is a pretty hard month. There were a lot of sharp words spoken this month, and there was a lot of conflict and a lot of empty running. Today, we all have a great opportunity to do something very concrete for people to do good for people. To increase the minimum wage for citizens only by €50 per month and thus not burden the economy. We can make it possible for development engineers who innovate and develop and actually create new jobs to increase wages and keep them at home. We can also reduce the taxation of the Christmas tree and thus allow all the citizens who are rewarded by their companies to get the biggest piece of Christmas, not to get it from the country. When we walked every month in the New Slovenia Group, we met people, the economists, we heard the same word or the same wish everywhere: If you want economic growth to increase, if you want economic growth to be sustained, then it is imperative to increase domestic consumption. However, domestic consumption cannot be increased in any other way than by keeping more people in their wallets, more in their pockets. Math is very simple. The law before you proposes three things: a social slipper, a development cap and a lower taxation of Christmas. In social shoes, we have followed the simple logic that EUR 3 000 300 earns every citizen's earnings, which is why every citizen gets 50 euros more net income. We put the development cap on a 4-fold minimum wage. In the case of Christmas taxation, however, we drew an analogy by taxing the regression. We're aware that if there's more people left, there's less country. We don't even deny it. But the government has prepared calculations that, according to our assessment, are very conservative, our calculations are slightly different, and I will not go into this detail, but I will stick to what the government has charged. According to the Government's calculations, in the case of a social slipper, if it had been established, there would have been 450 million more in people's pockets if they had implemented a development cap, there would have been 300 million more for people and if they had imposed a different tax on Christmases, there would have been 40 million more for people. If we applied all three measures together, people would have 800 million more money left in their pockets that they could spend as they want and want. We are aware that the budget for 2016 and 2017 has been adopted, so we are responsibly proposing the implementation of this law by 1. 1. 2018, so with the next budget, which means that we still have enough time and opportunities to adjust public spending to these measures adopted. I am also sure that you will not all agree with the measures that we have proposed today to disturb some of the public financial consequences, but we should all pursue together that the growth that Slovenia promises should be achieved by all citizens and not just the public sector. In the case of public financial consequences, since the law is at first reading, it is also possible to adjust the intensity of individual measures. Some will also ideologically oppose the development cap. I don't deny it to you, but I think that the common point of all of us is Christmas and that Christmas is our common minimum denominator that we could accept and also confirm. The law is made up of three parts, you can choose the one you want. By voting for, voting for, voting for people today, but you can show your dissatisfaction with me, perhaps even with New Slovenia by voting against, but people will have nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although the bill has set objectives that can be attached to them and are in principle consistent with the Government's priorities, at the same time with concrete solutions it opens up so many substantive and implementing dilemmas that the Government assesses that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The bill seeks to address how to improve the competitiveness of the economy also through changes in the public benefits system, in particular towards reducing labour burdens. The fact is that the largest share of the labour burden in Slovenia is social security contributions, indicating that appropriate solutions must be sought in social security systems. Data show that Slovenia is 39.4% of GDP after tax burdens and contributions under the average of the European Union and 37.6 for Slovenia. However, the economic structure of taxes is quite unfavourable as it deviates from the average of European countries, due to the over-average burden of work and consumption and the under-average burden of capital and property. The data also show that the cost of working in Slovenia is significantly above average, mainly for social security contributions paid by workers. However, the proposal of the law interferes with the essential element of the social security scheme to the extent that, without simultaneous interference with other elements of the system, this is the definition of insurers, contribution rates, the mode of financing and, in particular, social security rights, according to the Government, the breakdown of the financial sustainability of the systems while at the same time breaking down the public finances system. It has already been mentioned that the total financial impact is EUR 800 million. If we look at this from the point of view of individual public finances, the proposed solutions represent around 145 million more revenue in the state budget, about 615 to 620 million less income in the pension treasury and thus for the same amount of higher government budget expenditure and a reduction in the revenue of the health insurance by around 330 million. This cannot be replaced by measures which would not prejudice social security rights. In the view of the Government, more complex, simultaneous and coordinated measures will be needed to reduce the burden of work in a number of areas that will require wider consensus. In the view of the Government, the objectives of maintaining a comparable level of social security and the sustainability of public finances should also be pursued when looking for solutions to the burden of work or ensuring a positive developmental impact of taxes and contributions. In addition to that, the Government notes that the proposal is not feasible for several reasons. In the proposal to equalise the income base and social security contributions, the applicant did not take into account the fact that social security contributions are a deductible item in determining the basis for the income assessment. Furthermore, in determining the new method of collection of contributions, the applicant did not take into account the fact that there are different procedures for collecting contributions in the sectoral legislation than for collecting income and that the taxpayers are normally two, the insurer and the employer. A vague terminology is used and is not used, is not clearly defined, and may lead to anomalies or abuse of proposed solutions. The amendments are also not adequately incorporated into the regulations governing the content for which amendments are proposed. The Social Security Contributions Act sets out the amount of contributions, does not lay down the basis. Taking into account all the above, the Government cannot support and points out, for substantive reasons, that it is impractical in practice. We therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u6	Dear President, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! Today we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Contributions Act. What are the objectives of these changes: for the first time, reduce wage burdens by social security contributions; for the second time, achieve the opening of a higher number of healthy jobs in the economy by reducing the wage burden of employees and self-employed persons with social security contributions, without increasing the burden of employers; for the third time, improve the material situation of the recipients of the minimum wage and the beneficiaries of the four average wages by limiting the payment of social security contributions down and up, and by reducing the contribution of the Christmas tree in the light of the annual holiday regression. The main solutions proposed are: the introduction of a minimum amount of income from work from which income recipients would not pay social security contributions; in addition to the establishment of a lower income limit from which contributions would not be paid, the amendment of the law also sets the upper limit of the amount of social security contributions for employers; the payment of the Christmas pay is treated in terms of contributions in the same way as the regress. The same as is now the case with legal provisions for regression, a maximum amount not burdened by social security contributions shall also be set for Christmas. In addition, the amount of the regression not charged by contributions shall be determined in such a way that it is uniform throughout the calendar year irrespective of the month of payment. The fact is, my fellow Members and colleagues, that taxes are a topic that we are discussing regardless of which government is running our country. There is probably no president or finance minister who would not be happy to lower taxes and thus relieve people and economies. However, the fact is that there is no budget revenue without taxes and there is no budget expenditure or expenditure without budget revenue. I'd probably find someone who'd say great, I'd pay the country nothing, and I don't want anything from her. Of course, it's not that simple. In order to have more or less free healthcare, more than €3 billion must be provided, for the needs of the school system more than €1.6 billion and for the pensions of our pensioners more than €4 billion per year. Today, according to the OECD, the workload in Slovenia is relatively high, mainly due to high social security contributions. According to the OECD, Slovenia is moving upwards in the load indicators for a single person regardless of income levels compared to countries that are in some way our competitors: Poland, Czech Republic, Estonia, Spain, Slovakia. Of course, the derogation is even higher in higher incomes, so it is reasonable to think about decommissioning labour costs if I say domestically, reducing contributions or taxes on wages. We have also been talking about this in Slovenia for many years. The proposal ahead of us would reduce the public financial revenue by just under €500 million without any restrictions. Only this, it is said, is adopted by this law and on the other hand nothing can be done on budget expenditure is impossible. With the exemption of all employer and employee contributions at the upper limit of four gross average wages, this would mean an estimated reduction in public financial revenues of around EUR 56 million. In the event of the introduction of a so-called social cap of four gross average wages for all social security contributions, but only on the employees' side, net government revenues would be lower by around EUR 26 million. These last two solutions are significantly more acceptable and feasible than without any exception. Of course, there is also a need to look at the impact on the economy, which, according to my or our assessment, would undoubtedly be positive. There's been a lot of talk in the last few days about finding solutions. What we have on the table is certainly one of the possible solutions. Is she the best? Probably not. Is it real? Maybe. However, this law can certainly be fundamental in this House to do what is really necessary and what the economy has been asking us to do for a very long time, it is to burden 13 and 14 with wages, regress and Christmas. At the time of the adoption of the budgets for 2016 and 2017, a higher VAT rate was applied as a permanent measure, which was originally envisaged as a crisis or crisis measure. At the time of the adoption of the Value Added Tax Act, it has been recorded and also repeatedly publicly and also here in this Chamber, it is stressed that the higher VAT is precisely the room of manoeuvre which will allow the government some relief for the economy and employees. Now we're here when we can make this happen and actually do it and leave more in people's wallets. In our parliamentary group, we will support the draft law in this reading. To all those who have you or who have us full of mouths about how to do something for people, how to look for solutions and how to do it, I expect the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Tillen Christmas for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal of fellow Members of Parliament with the first-signed Matthew Tonin, who is trying to address the collection and payment of social security contributions in a slightly different way than it is now. The SMC pre-election programme has become operational under the three key frameworks for the development of tax policy. Firstly, the restructuring of tax burdens, which provides for the gradual harmonisation of taxation of all types of work and the decommissioning of labour costs in such a way that the measure will be neutral in terms of the sum of State Treasury. This one's in progress. Secondly, improving the efficiency of tax collection, where improvements in control by strengthening the functioning of inspectors in the field have been key in the past year, improving the targeted approach, which mainly provides for the control of those at high risk, and for the informationisation of treasury controls by the introduction of tax boxes. Through complementing the recovery and expansion toolkit, the financial management can now make it easier to reduce the billions tax debt. And thirdly, the de-liberation of the tax environment, which we started in the past year, inter alia, by adopting the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, the possibility of netting tax liabilities, the extension of the tax liability room, the single invoice for the S.E., the possibility of binding information for transfer pricing areas and so on. This has given rise to the development of further measures to address administrative burdens in the tax area, which will be followed up in the short term. The coalition agreement, which was also the basis for a good part of our pre-election programme, has allowed us to turn the pre-election promises into written commitments, and we are now gradually applying them in the tax area, as mentioned in the introduction. In the area covered by the proposal, we have foreseen in our pre-election programme a burden on labour costs by introducing a partial social cap in a way that would have a neutral impact on the measure in terms of the sum of public treasury. In our view, neutrality could be ensured through various measures to bring the tax targets closer to those of Slovenia, where Slovenia shows a significant deviation from comparable countries. That's what the secretary used to say. One of the opportunities is also in the green tax reform, which is probably a relatively abstract concept for a lot of people. But it already has a relatively important impact on our lives today. In view of the fact that two weeks ago, the head of the tax area at the OECD Republic of Slovenia declared a reference case in the area of the introduction of green taxes between all OECD members, we now have external evidence that we have already embarked on the right path in this regard as a country. In the SMC, we are aware that the burden of work on taxes, especially for certain income classes, is above average, reflecting both our programme and the coalition contract. This is also confirmed by the OECD, Eurostat and other reference sources. However, it is important to be careful that it is addressed correctly, both in terms of the final impact on the taxation of these revenues and the impact of measures on public finances. In a specific case, we find that we are relatively competitive in the taxation of lower incomes. In comparison with other countries, however, the tax rate is increasing rapidly, and we agree that some of the problem is also the high taxation of contributions. Our thinking contained in the pre-election programme was in the direction of establishing a partial cap. Such a view was based on the fact that certain rights arising from the payment of social contributions are practically unlimited. Here I am referring to health insurance rights, which for insurers do not practically have a limit up, if someone needs health care, of course they will get them. On the other hand, there are, for example, pension contributions that have up-to-date payments, regardless of how much an individual has paid to the system during his or her active period. Recognizing that our social security system is based on solidarity, it is, of course, necessary to carry out a substantial reflection on which we are working in the SMC, and with the proposal one of these possible dimensions is also highlighted by the proposer. This area is somewhat deeper and more analytical in our Member Group, which is often evident to us, but we believe that this is one of the key steps in the process of amending tax legislation so as not to destabilize the social security and public finances system at the expense of citizens, and thus to degrade the constitutional record that we wish to remain faithful to in the SMC. Slovenia is a social state. In addition, it will be necessary to have discussions with several social partners in order to make such changes. Now, more specifically, the NSI proposal. The measures have been categorically referred to as slippers, cap and Christmas, so that I will also use this terminology. So, sweatshirt, exemption from the employee's contributions to the amount of general income relief. Then we are talking about the cap, which would bring the exemption to pay the employer's contributions over four times the minimum gross salary. And Christmas, taxation of additional payments in a comparable manner as is the case for regress, with the basis for which social security contributions would not be paid up to 70% of the average wage for the previous year. If the annual leave agreement that we have in Slovenian legislation were to be regarded as the thirteenth salary, this payment could therefore be considered to be regulation of the fourteenth. None of the approaches to our tax system is an essential novelty, since these are concepts that have been introduced with a slightly different view into our system years ago. It is therefore necessary to take into account the existing situation before making changes and to decide whether to keep it, supplement it or replace it. In the sense of the so-called copatka, we know in our tax system compensation for transport to work, for food and other allowances and allowances that are not known in most countries or other income from employment taxed with income, any other taxes, it is here that we mean urban, regional, church, solidarity and other taxes that we do not know, at least not directly, and of course with contributions. Thus, in our country, the so-called slipper was exposed for various reasons years ago as a social correction, support for workers' mobility or for other reasons, depending on content and purpose. In addition to the government regulation, there are other rules governing the level of tax exemptions. We do not pay contributions and taxes, i.e. from a certain part of the income from employment in Slovenia, unlike many other countries, so we have approached the regulation of some countries which set a minimum threshold to which social security contributions are not paid. There is therefore a need to think about which of the approaches we would like to have in Slovenia, because uncritical intertwining of various solutions leads to an inextricable and, as is evident from the accounts of the Ministry of Finance, also to an unstable and weakened social security system. As far as the cap is concerned, it was also introduced years ago, but, in this part we agree, not in the field of income from employment. On the contrary, for example, the maximum level of contributions is prescribed for an independent entrepreneur. As mentioned above, our view of the possible introduction and operation of the cap differs significantly from that of the applicant and cannot be supported in the proposed form. Furthermore, it is appropriate to highlight an area that the applicant may have overlooked, since it is significantly less attractive. The proposed changes would have a significant impact on the destabilisation of public finances, and the direct effects would be borne in particular by those for whom the proposer normally claims to defend them. There would be a reduction in pension entitlements for those who have the lowest income, as more than €600 million would be reduced in pension income, which is more than 10% of the reduction in mass according to the current situation. In order to ensure an additional transfer to the pension register, the likely large proportion of the shortfall would be at the expense of the military budget, the police, social transfers and investments, to which the applicant is usually particularly sensitive on other occasions. The health care basket should be severely depreciated, as there is also a projected decline of more than €300 million above 10% of the current budget of this treasury. Unlike the pension fund, there is no transfer from the budget. This should probably be followed by the substantially enhanced personal financial participation of those most in need, namely chronically ill and elderly, which are considered particularly sensitive in the SMC, and also in the light of the barely exceeded financial and economic crisis, by means of a socially vulnerable group. For example, raising the income of the beneficiaries of the minimum wage to a 50-euro reduction in social contributions could therefore mean thousands of costs for the use of health services, which is unacceptable for this group. If we want the system to remain comparable, we should therefore significantly cut into the social rights of citizens and citizens, where a re-establishment of balance cannot be ensured without the simultaneous adoption of counter-measures. Otherwise, we can go back to a public financial spasm where, when the tax on salaries paid is abolished and corporate income tax is reduced before the key expenditure reforms have actually been implemented, there has been a budgetary imbalance, which we will be experiencing for a long time, due to the drastic absorption of the enthusiasm for unpopular reforms in the previous decade. The measures on the revenue and expenditure side should therefore be confirmed at the same time, as otherwise, political realities make history repeat itself and thus desire a constant political likeness and popularity at the expense of the stability of the financial system and thus a long-term benefit for citizens and citizens. Finally, it is worth mentioning, the tactless introduction of social security contribution measures would mean a drastic increase in the structural deficit, which, in the SMC, in view of the plan we have put in place and now implemented in terms of the establishment of balanced public finances, we do not agree. Let us also point out before the conclusion the point of view of the competent Ministry of Finance in a slightly different light. The proposal amends certain articles which are either invalid or not suitable for regulating this subject as they are regulated in other articles or regulations. Given that even a proposaler from the legislative branch of government who is presumed to be well aware of sectoral legislation has not been able to identify precisely the parts of the law that need to be amended in order for the content of the proposed solutions to be translated into legislative provisions, this raises a question, and from this our leadership, which will have to be taken more into account by the government team. Legislation is overly complex, contradictory in many places, and as such difficult to understand for the legislator, let alone for citizens and citizens. We place special emphasis on the Government in this place to ensure that the hyperproduction of laws and the speed of legislative procedures is substantially reduced and thus actively contributes to the emergence of transparent and clear legislation, which is and remains one of the key commitments of the SMC. On the basis of all the above, we cannot support the proposal for a new Social Security Contributions Act with the first-signed Matthew Tonin in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u9	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Members' Group, mag. Matthew Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Social Security Contributions proposed by the New Slovenia Group. The main objectives and principles of this Act are divided into three main groups, namely, reducing the burden of gross wages by social security contributions, opening up more healthy jobs and improving the material situation of the beneficiaries of minimum wages and beneficiaries of wages of four minimum wages. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome in some way such a proposal and a change to the law tabled by Nova Slovenije for several reasons. The fact is that such a proposal would be expected from the Government or from the Ministry of Finance, but in a period of one and a half years we were able to conclude that the Government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance in the National Assembly only came with laws and additions to laws that added to the burden of the economy and, on the other hand, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that we have witnessed, even in this mandate, a significant number of laws and additions to the laws proposed by the Government of Mir Cerar, which have added to both the financial and bureaucratic burdens on the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We have come to the conclusion that the last such measure – the tax box – is in particular a step that will make it difficult for companies to operate and the question is whether or not, in particular, how many micro and small enterprises will shut down their business as a result of this measure. If we take a closer look at the amendments and this bill, which has been tabled by the New Slovenia, we can assess that their view or this proposal for amendments to the law, according to the opinion and belief of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is in the right direction. The fact is that it would be time for the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a law, too, to adopt an order that would reduce the burden on the economy. In this bill we can see that it is going in a direction where there is no additional burden on the economy, but, of course, the net revenue that will be earned by all employees in Slovenia, whether they are employed in the economy or are employed in the public administration. The fact is that Slovenia does not have a business environment that is oriented in a positive direction. We have been able to read this in several studies, including studies from abroad, and on the one hand, it seems to me that the opinion of the Government, which it submitted, is that on average the Slovenian tax burdens are not so high, misleading. On average, when we get to real life, we see that, above all, the tax and administrative burdens in Slovenia are those that drive away foreign investors and force citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to think more about moving abroad. And the migration of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia abroad has increased over the past period from year to year. Above all, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the National Assembly must urgently discuss tax reform. The tax reform should be prepared by the Government, the Ministry of Finance, but not by tax reform, as you have already prepared, when the opinion of both the professional public and the general public was that it would have a negative impact. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the Mira Cerar government think about its operation and that it might consider an example of how the state of Austria has made tax reform in the past year, where the coalition and the opposition were involved. Today we have a nice opportunity, because this proposal came from the opposition to support this proposal of the law in this first reading, and in fact with some common powers, we are trying to make such a law that will be acceptable and will be in the best interests of both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, given the position expressed by the Secretary of State, we can expect exactly the opposite. Many times in this mandate, in those proposals, those amendments to the laws proposed by the opposition, the government fears that they will even be discussed – you will come to the committee and say, this law is not suitable for further consideration. And you used those same words, the distinguished secretary of state, today too – the law is not suitable for further consideration. I think it's very sad, because we all know that this law, even if it gets the green light today, will have no effect, no effect, but it will only give us the opportunity to correct this law. Now, whether in the Slovenian Democratic Party we agree with all the provisions proposed by the proposer or not, but we are convinced that more than half or 80% of things are going in the right direction. It is very interesting that the government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance see this law very unilaterally. Because you have estimated that this law will have a particularly negative impact on financial revenues in the budget. They will go down, and Slovenia cannot afford to do so. But we have always witnessed the same relationship with the so-called left-centre governments. The left-centre governments are those who increase taxes and you see taxes only as a function of charging the budget. In Slovenia, however, taxes should also be seen as a development function. And that probably won't be possible until Slovenia gets the right-centre government. For example, Austria has reduced the burden on the economy and employers by about €5 billion. This is what the state of Austria has enjoyed, and it can afford it, for it also looks on the other side. If we additionally owe both employers and employees, then on the other hand, we can expect more revenue from the budget. And the government has not assessed with any analysis what these tax burdens would mean, social contributions to the positive revenue in the budget. Not a word. You said to yourself like a Fiakar horse, look, this will reduce revenue in the budget by so much and so much, but never do an analysis of what this would mean by higher consumption or even possible by opening up new jobs. I am sure and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that this change and the proposals on the one hand also ensure the opening of new jobs, provide in particular a more satisfied worker and, on the other hand, probably a higher development of Slovenia. Dear Secretary of State, you've operated with a number of 500 to 800 million lower revenues in the budget. I've asked you a lot of questions about what you're going to do with a $1.4 billion tax debt. 1.4 billion tax debt is in Slovenia. I do not see a single measure in your government's time that would help to reduce this tax debt. And if the government, the Ministry of Finance and FURS, would probably be able to come into the budget on the basis of these revenues, and for such and other reasons they would not come, on the other hand they could probably start to reduce these tax burdens. The fact is, in Slovenia, more than EUR 5,000 is significantly above average, as in other EU countries. And that's what added value is. Not to talk about minimum wages and regression and Christmas. If an employee in the company receives a reward because he has done his job well because he has contributed to the further development of the company, because with his work the company has contributed more taxes to the budget, the reward paid will have to direct more than half of the gross amount to the State. And take one step further here. I'm thinking of regress and Christmas here. Slovenia is probably the only country in the world where the employer has to pay gross wages. And we all know when this gross piece came — the setting up of the LDS government. Today we have a nice opportunity to give the green light to this bill in the National Assembly and then to try to do something for the good of the Slovenian worker both the opposition and the coalition. Dear Secretary of State, the President of the Government walks every day with a letter to seek a solution. And it is likely also expected that ministries will seek a solution. But you're not looking for a solution in this bill, but you said that this law is not suitable for further consideration, so let's throw it in the trash. We see you're doing something here and you're saying something else. And that it's actually just one of your pierres. But this pear of the government of Mira Cerar and SMC is seen publicly in public research. And I am sure that voters and voters in Slovenia will probably be able to do the same, I will say, draw the line under all these things that you are doing. Dear Secretary of State, today is still an opportunity. We have a debate in the National Assembly and you can say positive and negative things, but not only, this law is not suitable for further consideration. And I am sure that today, probably, you will also be asked a lot of questions, but, as usual, the government, ministers, state secretaries in the National Assembly, in particular, you will not answer the opposition's questions. You won't. As already mentioned, we believe primarily in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such a bill is necessary for Slovenia, it is essential that both the Government and the National Assembly adopt laws that will burden the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. There are enough laws in this National Assembly that have been adopted or are being prepared, which are actually only extra burdensome. The fact is, Slovenian worker works around the end of July only for the country. By the end of July, we are working for the state, a respected secretary of state. Then comes the four, five months when you're actually working for your pocket. And with this, we cannot expect any development in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that without a healthy economy we cannot have a positive social policy. If you are burdening the economy with the pace that you have also indicated now and what is expected to happen in the future, we can expect that social policy will also be reduced and worsened. And look, I suggest you look at each one at the end of the month your payment list, where it is clear how much contributions are made and how much taxes are paid. And not to go now with this function – health in Slovenia is free. It's not! Everyone who is employed pays a lot of health contributions. Education in Slovenia is not free. All those who have school-bound children know how monthly they are, not talking about annual costs. And the social situation in Slovenia is deteriorating. That's a fact. The fact is that in the last 8 years in Slovenia we always have left-wing governments that work exclusively in the interest of trade unions but do not work in the interest of the economy. And the well-respected coalition, respected by the Ministry of Finance, we ask you and expect you to start talking to the economy as well. The last case is, for example, the case of the Chamber of Commerce, which left the negotiations and left a social agreement. For the first time in the history of Slovenia this has happened that someone has left the social agreement and the group. Now all that's left is the unions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this proposal in the first step. We are confident that it is going in the right direction, and we expect that all these open questions can be resolved through a debate today with some quality debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u11	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! In short, the position of the Desus Group. Many, if not all parties, promised comprehensive health, pension, fiscal and other reforms during their electoral campaign. All in the interests of a little man. In our parliamentary group, we have examined the draft law in detail and found that the drafter is engaged in so-called "contributory discharges". Who, though, will be subject to this relief? For a little man like that, do we all like to point out? No, no, no. Those with the highest salaries and employers will pay less. The applicants justify this proposal as a burden for all citizens and citizens. We can see that as a special kind of irony. And your people, our voters understand what your proposal really means? I mean, at first glance, I have to admit, he seems to like it, but let's take a closer look at what this candy means. Let me begin by borrowing a question from one of our visible unionists, who is there in the summer months of 2014, when negotiations were held to form a government coalition asked, "Is it Christian to introduce a system that is completely contrary to reciprocity and solidarity, which is the foundation of the social state?" That was a quote. I wonder: Is it not in the spirit of solidarity and righteousness that those who do not have help? Is it not the “main concern” of the social state that it is necessary to help people who do not have and cannot help themselves? Doesn't the Constitution say we're a social state anymore? With this proposal, you are primarily trying to undermine the fundamental constitutional value of solidarity, as you would like to introduce the so-called rich cap. A rich cap for those who already earn more than a large majority of citizens. You are proposing a ceiling on the calculation and payment of contributions for those who receive a monthly salary of more than EUR 3 000 100. Claim to relieve developers and researchers, engineers and so on, in short, all those who contribute most to the added value of the economy. You claim that these salaries are higher than four times the monthly minimum wage, i.e. more than EUR 3 000 162. In fact, they are, according to the SURS, the average monthly gross salary of the highly educated there is about 1.4 average gross wages or 2.9 minimum wages, which is the sum of the circus EUR 2 000 300. I agree that's not enough. Those who make the most of your contribution to the development of the economy therefore have much lower wages, and the burdens of these are nowhere to be found after this proposal. Let us look at the proposal that, according to you, brings relief from solidarity participation. Who do you think we're gonna unload here? For the first time, tycoons, quasi bankers, managers, all kinds of advisors and psychiatrists, regardless of whether they showed enough ethics and morals and responsibilities in their work, regardless of whether they played monopolies with unsecured loans, companies then went bankrupt, people threw money on the road, and they never returned money. They would relieve the privileged who receive such or other supplements in their fabulous salaries. My dears, we would also burden officials, such as ministers, Members and so on, whose good wages are financed by taxpayers, of course. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, after this proposal, we too would be burdened by Members who would no longer be in solidarity with our citizens and citizens who have entrusted us with our mandates. With this proposal, you allow even higher salaries for those who already have such high salaries, many citizens and citizens of this country, but who pay taxes and finance everything they need, do not have any bread at all. And that's the saddest part. I fear that this proposal alone will make it impossible for the brain to escape abroad because, unfortunately, young people are going abroad because they are looking for better opportunities for professional advancement there because they do not get a job at home and because they simply do not have to stand on their own feet and live on their own. However, in order to prevent brain escape, it will be necessary to take systematic action and take into account several factors. Let me, once again, express my firm conviction that measures in the field of both social and employment policies should be continued and, above all, should be taken into account an integrated approach. This means that there will be no partial individual issues, but a comprehensive approach in the area of social, family, employment, fiscal and other policies needs to be pursued. You say there is a need to increase the competitiveness of the economy by lower taxes. Why? To open new jobs, to invest in development. That should have happened a long time ago, I think, 1995. At that time, the contribution rate for pension and disability insurance owed to the employer was substantially reduced, from 15 and somewhat to 8,85 %. The tax burden of the worker, the employee, remained — you will not believe — the same. It was then argued that this measure should apply only to temporary, until the tax on wages was lifted. We have abolished the tax on paid salaries from 2009 and the wages have been burdened, thus allowing employers additional funds to invest in development, modernisation, growth and so on. And that's what happened? Unfortunately, not or at least not to the extent expected. It turned out that most employers of high savings and profits created due to tax cuts were not meant for research and development, for opening up new quality jobs, for expanding production and for helping and developing regions, but for private pockets for the purposes of wild privatisation, for purchases of yachts, for purchases of luxury cars, for Armani's clothes, and what else could be found. The companies were chained and eventually bankrupted, and the workers fell on the road. Of course they were, too, it must be admitted that they actually invested in what I mentioned before, but the Slovenian reality is such, unfortunately it was so that all of these were too small. Let me also recall that, in all these years, the pension allowance has already been reduced by at least EUR 10 billion, which is little more than one year's budget for this country, so this relief should also be counted among the causes of the pension crisis and the very absence of a pension fund. Following the introduction of these measures, the State budget took over part of the co-financing of pension and disability benefits, and until then no pension fund was needed. Moreover, in the past, the surplus pension fund has been diverted to the financing of several important state investments, which had virtually nothing to do with the remittance of the pension fund. Even at the time of the so-called fat cows, the contribution rates of employers did not return to the previous level, and during the crisis the rise would not be exactly on the spot, but such a measure could be legitimate. A gradual transition to equalisation of the contribution rate to increase inflows to the pension register could also be acceptable. This would achieve its sustainability and ultimately its greater autonomy in relation to other sources of funding. Already increasing the rate of contribution for employers by 4% of the point would bring about €800 million more for the PPIZ, i.e. for pension payments. We could finally ensure that pensions are properly coordinated and that the annual allowance is paid so that this should no longer have to be selectively shared. The proposed bill would like to make the pension fund more impoverished by around €600 million with its entire set of proposals. Of course, I'm not going to go into calculating what this means for the number of average wages, children's allowances, school lunches and last but not least lunches in this buffet, because some people can do it better than me. If I add the negative consequences for health insurance, which would be poor for half of that, that is about EUR 300 million, it is probably now clear to every citizen what this is about, and I can at least rightly ask myself what this means for my rights, for our rights, there is nothing left at all. So with this proposal, do you want to take away or drastically reduce pension and health insurance rights from more than ten thousand pensioners and health-stricken citizens and citizens? I wonder whether or not, how and from what resources is it intended to replace some 900 million Euros from both state-owned cash registers that are running out after this proposal? Would you like each of the working people in Slovenia to put an additional tax burden on more than 1,000 euros a year so that a few hundred privileged people can live even better and accumulate their wealth even more? We will encourage further distribution, to a few percent of the fabulously rich and to over 90, significantly more than 90% of those who live on the brink of survival. This is happening somewhere in the world unfortunately. With the so-called rich cap, you are actually interfering with the so-called social slipper or proposing it. Therefore, if contributions were to be charged only when incomes were exceeded above the minimum wage, that would be more than €790, and there would be no payments and payments at all under this amount. They would also reduce the basis for the calculation of contributions to all taxpayers for the level of the general benefit of the income. For God's sake, you're proposing a very financial black hole a la Slovenian banks. Mathematics is quite an exact knowledge if contributions are not paid by those with the lowest and significantly lower incomes, so richer, what this means for the rights of pensioners and health-care providers. Would you like to stay and lay low? Who and how would guarantee at least the same level of pension, disability, health and parental insurance rights as well as unemployment insurance? Again, I repeat the same question: Where would we take the extra money if, unfortunately, there is a shortage of it at this point? Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, in Slovenia the reduction of the rights of pensioners and health-protected workers will not take place until the party Desus has enough words and votes in Parliament. The rich cap you're proposing is not acceptable to Desus. We consider the bill in our parliamentary group to be a good media spin, but we estimate that it is materially premature, is under-thinking, in some ways misleading and unacceptable because of the above, because it undermines the foundations of the solidarity system of the social state, leading to a reduction in social rights and ultimately undermines the fiscal commitments we have made by adopting the Fiscal Rule Act. Because of what is said and explained in the Desus Group, we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u13	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Contributions Act provides a good starting point for discussion in the National Assembly, and in particular the possibility of presenting various aspects of resolution as to how it is possible to reduce the income of employees. Applicants say they are pursuing the objective of reducing the burden on people's income by contributing to social security. This, in their view, would relieve the work and open up opportunities for decommissioning the economy, for higher net wages and for more employment. However, we believe that the proposed solutions threaten solidarity based on both a health and a pension insurance system. And this is the basis, this is the basic starting point, which, however, in the legislation we adopt in Slovenia, we must take into account, because Slovenia is a social state by the Constitution. Applicants propose the introduction of a lower income limit, i.e. the amount to which the debtors would not pay social security contributions at all. They also propose the introduction of a so-called social hat or determine the maximum amount over which contributions would not be paid. In addition, they propose to amend the base for contributions from which they would deduct general income relief and thereby further reduce contributions. They themselves estimate that such changes would mean a significant reduction in the income of both health and pension funds. According to their assessment, there would be fewer €490 million in these two cash registers, and this would be a reduction for a good €760 million in health and pension revenues. Taking into account that the introduction of the proposal would also reduce insurance bases, this would result in lower pensions. In short, at first glance we can talk about the fact that raising net wages is, of course, a very pleasant measure, the current measure, when people can get something more every month at a moment, but that means they get one candy, which is unfortunately very fast to melt. In fact, the problem arises at a time when the worker happens to be ill and, of course, because he does not pay for the health care allowance, he also has a lower standard of health care and thus has a smaller option or, above all, a more expensive way of healing, because he has to contribute additional resources to remedy the problems he may have encountered in his work. At the same time, it means that even when you go to a decent retirement, you have a lower pension. What pensions are like today in Slovenia and how many people actually live on the brink of poverty in retirement is certainly an information that the applicant should carefully analyse before going into this change. In doing so, we would also like to recall the fact that, in the case of laws that are being tabled, we are, above all, trying to see the consequences of some of the measures that we or they have introduced in the past. Indeed, we also have experience in lowering the rates of contribution, with a view to raising net wages since 1996. And experience shows that the reduction of contributions has not been translated into wages, but mainly into corporate profits. And when we look at how much money went into the tax havens also from Slovenia for profit, we could certainly talk today about dozens of billions of funds, of which the country, and also all others who expect a higher standard, actually have nothing. That is why, at the end of last year's public debate, we have also put forward our proposal for an economic programme that seeks to achieve a tax reform to relieve the working and middle classes, and in it we find that the Slovenian tax burdens are indeed uneven. In fact, there is an over-average burden on income from work and labour relations and, on average, income from capital and property is under-burdened, and here is this principle that needs to be taken into account when we interfere with the tax system. And we are following in particular the solutions that are in a more fair distribution of tax burdens, and here we see this balance in making capital and assets more burdensome and, of course, on this account, you can also unload contributions to wages. Without this balance, there can be very serious problems in the functioning of the country. The additional problem that we would like to highlight on this occasion is the fact that we have a lot of unfair forms of work on the Slovenian labour market. So, we employ people in a way that at some point you actually get them to work, you satisfy them, but, of course, they have significantly less rights to do so than those who are regularly employed. And if only these unscrupulous employed people were to be employed in a normal way, we would certainly also increase their contributions to both pension and medical bills, and we could talk again because we have more money at our disposal so that certain classes can certainly be unloaded. And when we look at these classes, we find that almost two thirds of Slovenian employees receive a salary lower than the average. And we have to ask ourselves why that is. And when we look at this system, we come to the fact that the burden of wages from the average onward is really among the highest, we can say almost, in the world. If we analyze from this point on, we find that this has actually been brought about by one of the former Minister Bajuk's tax reforms. Indeed, this tax reform has reduced the number of tax classes, which has placed a heavy burden on wages that are only slightly off average. Employers tend to pay their wages to the lowest level of taxation. We also see a solution to our proposals for economic reform, the economic programme, in that there is actually a need to define more tax classes and thus enable us to relieve the middle class and then properly burden those who receive more. On conclusion, I can only recapture the facts mentioned at the outset. The financial consequences of this law are extremely devastating for both the pension and the health system, and ultimately lower revenues would also be in the budget. However, the fact that we must also take care to balance public finances cannot be supported by this law, because it would actually cause very serious difficulties in ensuring an adequate pension system, the health system and the balance of public finances in the country, and thus certainly a deterioration in the functioning of the State as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! This law stated that with the support of this proposal today we can do something for people. Our answer could actually be very simple. Yeah, let's destroy health and pension insurance. We will therefore vote against it in the United Left. The reason is very simple. If this law had been adopted, pension and health bills would have lost more than €800 million per year. However, we all know that the income of the pension fund is no longer sufficient to pay pensions and that more than 50% of pensioners live with pensions below EUR 500. Already in the current regime, more than one third of the pension must be financed from the budget because the income in the pension fund is simply too small. There should be no one in this room who does not know that the health benefits are already too small to provide timely and effective treatment for everyone in this country. At our hospitals at this time, 200,000 people are standing in waiting lines. That is why our task is very simple. We need to increase the revenue in these two cash registers, but not to reduce, especially hand-to-hand, and with proposals like this one in front of us. The proposer offered no solution to this almost 800 million-million-dollar drop in social contributions. Yes, indeed, we have heard a whole series of phrases in creating new jobs and economic growth. But it's just phrases. However, the reality is that this failure will not be able to be compensated approximately with other taxes. This is also confirmed by the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, which I will indicate later. However, I believe that the young economists who prepared this proposal and the lobbyists from the Chamber of Commerce who formally supported this proposal by letter do not mind. On the contrary, their interest is very clear. In fact, less than the revenue of the Health Insurance Office, there will be more work for commercial insurance companies. And less than the revenue of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, the state pensions will be lower and the demand for private pensions will be higher. In short, it is a strictly interesting law, a law on the interest of financial capital, in particular insurance capital. The lobbying for the so-called health reform takes place at every step. New Slovenia's proposal, of course, accepted these proposals for its own. Their latest proposal for health reform is a recycling of the classic requirements of medical organisations and research paid by the Insurance Association of Slovenia and the American Chamber of Economics. In this place, I can also give you their addresses. The strategic orientations of Slovenian healthcare for the exit from the 2014 crisis, the evaluation of the long-term sustainability of healthcare in 2014, the project to renovate the economic aspects of Slovenian health in 2015 and so on, these are interesting studies supported by the domestic lobby and the American Economic Chamber and in there we can read exactly such requirements as in the proposal of the proposer. It is therefore quite clear that this is an interesting law and that we do not have a problem in fact. However, there is a major problem in the United Left that this law is contrary to the interests of the vast majority of Slovenian citizens. Because the vast majority of Slovenian citizens expect us as representatives of the people to have a solid pension and health system. If we allow the emptying of health, social registers and the introduction of commercial insurance, our reality will be longer every day than that. We will suddenly have two categories of citizens ahead of us – on the one hand those who will be able to afford commercial insurance and on the other hand those who will not be able to afford it. And this is not a hypothetical case at all from some distant place, but this is a situation that is already happening with us. Look, at the time of the crisis, 28 thousand of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens had to cancel their supplementary health insurance because they couldn't pay it anymore. 28 thousand people were left without supplementary health insurance because they could not afford it. If this law were to be adopted, supplementary health insurance should be auctioned at around EUR 50 per person. Imagine how many people would have been cut off then. And it is clear that the smaller the clear means, the smaller the basket of rights. This is the objective and content of the permanent requirements of neoliberal organisations, such as the OECD and the European Commission, that we must rationalise, which – I hope we all know now – means reducing our social rights. In particular, I must point out that the health department in this regard is in a worse position than the pensioner's. The deficit of the pension register is covered by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the Department of Health Treasury does not have this right. Less than resources, there are fewer health services, and the prices of services are so low that patients have huge losses that hinder normal work rather than the development of our health care. Of course, the applicants have repeatedly stressed their support for rural areas, families, even women's rights. Maybe. But the law they have proposed will do the most harm to these groups. The rate of poverty, the rate of social exclusion is the highest in rural areas, in regions that are under development, such as Prekmurje, East Styria, Posavje, Bela Krajina. The risk of poverty is most exposed to older single women, especially in rural areas. And commercial health insurance is already the most expensive thing for families with children. These are the most difficult groups to afford commercial insurance in which they would be forced directly by such proposals and, on the other hand, they need the most health and social services. So those who need the most help will be the ones we can push away from it. This is the truth of the applicant's socio-market model, as we call it. One of the proponents, Joseph Horvat, repeatedly speaks of the need to find bank hole drills. I agree. They need to be found. And we need to start looking where no one is looking for them at the moment, especially in the time of the first Janša government, when most of the bad credits were created and when the left share of the structural deficit was created. But today, when we talk about health and pension insurance, we need to find some other drills, some other holes. Towards the drilling holes in the social cash registers. The reduction in social contributions is not from yesterday or today. It's nothing new. This has been happening to us for 20 years, but it is unlikely that anyone will remember who is responsible for these holes. So I'm going to give you a brief description of how this developed. In 1995 and 1996, Drnovško's government, including ministers of the then Christian Democracy and SLS, reduced the contribution of employers to pension insurance from 15.5 to 8.85%. These were the first drill holes in the pension register. While the same Drnovšk government partially compensated for this failure by introducing a tax on paid wages paid by the company, the loss, according to the estimate we have, was due to a decrease in these contributions in 1995 and 1996 by 2009 of almost 7 billion euros, and the tax on paid salaries, which was imposed as compensation, brought only 4 billion euros. Thus, drillers drilled 3 billion holes into public finances within 13 years into the social treasury through this measure. Thus, Slovenia lost 3 billion euros. The situation worsened in 2006 when the then Janša Coalition decided that this tax on paid salaries, which was introduced as compensation for the reduction of the employer’s contribution to pension insurance, would be abolished. This also happened in 2009 and, of course, the contributions did not increase. As we know that the decline in potential contributions was around €5.2 billion over the next five years, we can say very clearly that they have invested an additional €5 billion in public finances. It is no wonder, therefore, that in 2007 and 2008, despite the growth with which the right still boasts today, Slovenia's structural deficit has increased by as much as 2.2%, according to the European Commission's assessment. At this point, I will not discuss any other tax reliefs for businesses and natural persons with the highest incomes introduced by the first and second Yanš government. As you know, before 2007, the corporate income tax rate was 25%, now it's only 17. The EU average is 23 and all other reliefs should be taken into account. That is why we are Slovenians in the European Union in the last place, as far as the capital taxes collected are concerned. The average GDP in the collected capital taxes in the EU is 20%, with only 10 of us. And there's only Estonia behind us. This is the truth of such development, as proposed by the proposaler today. What has happened in these years since we started creating oxygen for the economy, and we know it. It's not a development, it's a lost decade. There was no inflow of highly trained personnel, and there was a brain drain. There has not been a social rebirth of Slovenia, there has been a social disaster. However, the financial effects of this proposal need to be shifted to this point. The applicant noted that the social contributions will be up to €490 million. In addition, it stated that losses would partly be compensated by an increase in income and more tax collected from legal persons' incomes. But the proposalr could not assess this increase. At this point, it is important to note that the laws already have to contain an assessment of the financial implications by the rules of procedure, and in general, I am sure that before any proposal is made, it is necessary to be clear about the consequences of the proposal. It is clear, however, that the applicant underestimated the hole that would have arisen in the social treasury and underestimated the net negative impact on public finances. The Ministry of Finance has obtained completely different numbers, not up to 490 million, but they have charged that if this proposal were implemented, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance would lose EUR 638 million and the Department of Health Insurance 339 million. So, if we add this up, both social cash registers would lose as much as EUR 977 million. I hope we understand each other. With this proposal ahead of us today, the social treasury would lose almost one billion euros in income annually. The estimated losses of both registers would amount to EUR 487 million more than the applicant stated. The proposal states EUR 490 million; the reality is almost one billion. The applicant was spared 100 % in the calculation. I rarely agree with the Ministry of Finance, but this time they're right. This law is already nominally inappropriate for further consideration. The reduction in contributions would compensate in only a weak 10% of the allowances, the revenue in the budget quoted by the applicant. According to the calculations, the budget would generate a maximum of € 151 million, which would mean that the net government deficit would be €800 million, that is, 2.1% of the current Slovenian GDP. Such errors, even if such proposals are prepared by academic economists, cannot be a coincidence. They may be the result of ignorance, but they may be the result of deliberate deception. It can be a combination of both, but this certainly shows that the purpose of making such laws is exclusively to advertise neoliberal ideas. Finally, I must conclude that the law would not have any of the positive effects promised by the applicants. They promise higher economic growth and the creation of quality jobs. But both theory and practice show that these expectations are completely unrealistic. The effects of reducing taxes on growth have been shown to be minimal and short-term. This is not a finding of the United Left, here I quote a study by Nataša Jemec and co-authors published by Banka Slovenije in 2013. Citation: "One-time changes in national consumption and taxes in Slovenia are expected to have a short-term effect and cannot be applied to, I stress, the acceleration of economic activity over the longer term."the end of the quote. The practice has shown the same. Taxes on profits and capital income have been drastically reduced in Slovenia since 2007, with the abolition of taxes on paid salaries, labour costs have also been reduced, but as a result, I will stress once again, there has been no technological transformation of Slovenia, there has been no economic recovery of Slovenia. Everyone who lives in this country knows what has happened in the past eight years. The reduction of taxes and the management of pro-cyclical economic policy led to severe overheating and then to a worse fall in economic activity and employment. If in the first years when the first Janša government introduced neoliberal reforms, this was somehow because the overheating of the economy created jobs in construction, catering and transport, we lost most of these cities as soon as the credit expansion and fairy tales ended in 2008, and now we are where we are. Of course, the same is true in most comparable countries. The only guaranteed results of lower taxes are, for the first time, higher deficits and debt, and secondly, greater inequality and more social exclusion. If I draw the line. There is nothing positive about this law; there is only one new very lame recipe written for drilling holes in social registers. I am pleased that, at least this time, the coalition has shown so much rationality that it has resisted this and will not spread the floss on the excessive burden of the economy itself. The burden of income and contributions is the only fair part of our tax system, which takes into account the principle of each contributing according to its capacity, with our fellow citizens and fellow citizens receiving each other’s needs when aid is needed. I hope that this country will continue to do so and that we will not give in to the fairy tales of economic growth that are supposed to occur with neoliberal reforms because we have believed in this fairy tale for too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat is responsible, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Dr. Brglez. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! It says here, "We are Slovenians, we have solutions." A successful Slovenia requires the following: low taxes, simple procedures, an open economy. In the case of low taxes, the social cap, lower labour tax, lower VAT. In simple procedures, shorter placement of facilities into space, faster absorption of European funds, simplification of procurement procedures and an open economy, privatisation, labour market reform, increased payment discipline. The Christian democratic economic policy, established in the most successful countries in the world, is called the social market economy, where the values of justice, freedom and security, security in the broadest sense. Allow me, dear colleagues and colleagues, a somewhat unusual emotional introduction. Today is a sad day for Slovenia, Austria, and Europe. At 7:00 and 13 minutes, I received a text containing the following information: At the border crossing of the Gederovians, the Austrian army — the army! – controls personal documents, of course also to Slovenian day-to-day migrant workers. There are about 18,000 of them, mostly from Pomurje, from Styria and Koroška, there are no accurate data, some say 20,000. They just got a job in Austria and thank God they got it, and thank God they're taking advantage of the freedom of the European Union, that's free movement of people. But not anymore, just until today. And last year, several thousand people moved from Slovenia for a permanent period of not a day or a week. I have no record of anyone going to Venezuela or North Korea at all. They went to the best, the best educated. Why? Why? Why, dear colleagues and friends? And here we sow long hours and long days. Let us ask ourselves what good we have done for people in this mandate. Yes, of course, we also did something good, of course we did. You say, the best we've done has stabilised public finances by adopting the Fiscal Rule Act. Really? Really? We're not lying. Don't lie to yourself! The Fiscal Rule Act is just a tool that is now safely closed into a window waiting to be taken into the hands of a master who is called the fiscal world. When we have it, we don't know. We are in a violation of the European Union regulation, and I will remind you of this many times more. Yeah, what we've heard is that it's good for some people to keep the status quo. We are still, in terms of development rates, levels of development, lower than we were before the crisis, despite economic growth. Some people just agree that pensions actually fall by 16% in the last six or seven years. There's a real pension coming down! Some agree that companies, Slovenian companies, yes, even the best, go out from Slovenia. Why? Why? Ask Mr. Boscarol and hundreds of others. And let us also ask ourselves who will finance the social state. We're the first for the social state. We are for the socio-market model of the economy because we protect and protect capital and because the largest capital is human. The proposed amendment to the Law on Social Security Contributions, which we have proposed for parliamentary consideration, results in actually a hard part of a wide range of people. We often say that Members of New Slovenia make regular monthly field visits. There have been 30 of them since 2012. On average, we visit 5 economic operators, saying about 150 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as well as farms, and we have visited public institutions so far. When we listen to the owners and managers of these companies, these are fantastic stories, I tell you. And when we take their message into a few sentences, these sentences are written like this, so the owners and the managers say: "We are a small family company with 80 employees. We are very lucky because we are an excellent team.” “I’m lucky to be part of an extraordinary team,” the owners say. And: “Workers have no right to buy me a yacht.” And: “We have a new product, we could hire 30 new people, but we can’t because the legislation is such that we don’t hope and can’t, because we can’t upgrade the production hall in a short time, because the neighbouring land is such because it can’t be built and the procedures take five years and twenty qualified, maybe highly qualified people don’t have a job and therefore go out.” The logic is very simple and only the eyes need to be opened. The proposal for a law brings three main solutions, to which I will be very quickly defined below. The first proposed solution is the introduction of a lower limit for the calculation of social security contributions or the introduction of a so-called social cop. The measure of analogy with general income relief introduces a proportion of the income from which no contribution is calculated. The result will be positive for the recipients of the minimum wage, as their monthly net salary would increase by 50 euros. What will those who receive the minimum wage be with these 50 euros? Yeah, they're gonna spend it. It is said that the country will receive a share of this immediately back to the budget. At the annual level, of course, this means EUR 600. This is certainly not negligible, nor is it negligible for the country. And what is very important, and I must mention, is that employers will not be more burdened financially. I can say calmly that this measure will indirectly stimulate consumption and, consequently, the start-up of the economy, which we still need in this situation. And, of course, through increased consumption, this will also be seen on the revenue side by the state budget. Another proposed solution is the introduction of a ceiling for calculating social security contributions or development caps for all employees in the Republic of Slovenia. There have been many demagogic debates in Slovenia to date on this measure. Even today. Some still resent us for putting in a rich hat. Really? Who is a rich man in Slovenia? Or the one on the regular salary? Bye-bye! Goodbye, Slovenia! Let me just give you a few facts. The cap in Slovenia already exists for self-employed persons and is currently set at 3.5 times the average annual salary in the Republic of Slovenia, converted to a month. New Slovenia proposes to limit the amount of the social security contribution to all employees up to 4 times the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia, which is currently EUR 3 000 200. We estimate that this would relieve employers in companies, in technologically intensive activities such as information and communication activities, pharmaceuticals, electronic and optical products production, computer production, scientific research and development activities, as well as financial services and insurance activities, aviation and so on. At the same time, we would increase the net receipts of engineers, very important and other engineers, engineers – these are not tycoons, I am talking about engineers, these are towing horses of our development and Slovenia needs a technological breakthrough. Whoever doesn't understand this can only be helped by God. The third proposed measure concerns Christmas or 13th salary. The new Slovenia proposes that the Christmas on the calculation of the contributions be equal to the annual holiday regression. Regression is significantly less burdened by social security contributions, only in the amount exceeding 70% of the average gross wage in the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that in this way more employers would be motivated to reward their workers, who are the largest capital of any company, at the end of the year. We're fighting for the workers to understand each other. It is normal, colleagues and colleagues, for Members of New Slovenia to support the law in the first reading. We expect a quality debate on the proposed solutions in second reading. We expect the marriage to get this chance. We are pleased that the Government has stated that it actually supports our concept. We would expect the Government to write in its opinion that it is preparing its own solution. Somehow it wasn't detectable. We understand the government's objections, but we've been predicting, I repeat, we've been temping for one. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hope that you, dear colleagues and the Government understand that the Group of Ambassadors does not have as much machinery as it has, say, the Ministry of Finance. To conclude, I must thank my young colleague, Luka Mesca. He's already gone. He's got interesting tactics. Hit and run. [[…]] I'm glad he mentioned me. Of course, I'm a big fighter looking for bank hole drills. However, to him, my colleague Luka Mesco, I propose at least eight hours of apprenticeship practice in the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First of all, Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare for the proposaler and the mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u20	We are also Slovenians in Novi Slovenije and also working, hardworking Slovenian citizens, who do not complain, but we are looking for and have solutions. The economy also expects solutions from the government. Unfortunately, on all our field visits, in many companies we hear that Nova Slovenija is the only hope for the economy. And if the government keeps talking about how this law isn't appropriate, how nothing can be done, how to calculate the minuses themselves, then I wonder where it really has better solutions, more appropriate. Can't anything really be done? If you don't want to, you can't. Good companies want to reward their workers. Many of them are also fair, well rewarded. However, those who want to pay 13 more wages or Christmas pay reckon that, in fact, their workers will not get the most out of it, but again directly into the state treasury. Then they look for other solutions and circuits to properly reward their hardworking workers, which make the company work well. And if there's more to it than pay, he'll spend more. That is why these calculations of the Ministry, in my opinion, are incorrect or stop only where there are fewer revenues in the state treasury and forget that more contributions to pensions and medical bills will come from spending on citizens from VAT. Let's just forget about it. Where are you people who say you're against saving? With both hands, we should support our law, which provides that more money can remain in the pockets of those who have the worst wages and in the pockets of those who have average wages, because there is relatively little good pay in Slovenia. The Secretary of State listed what could not be taken into account, what was wrong. I think if we supported this law in the first reading, we could honestly supplement it in the second reading and at least do something for the Slovenian economy and Slovenian citizens. We often hear in the debates that young people are leaving, young educated people are going abroad. Why? Those who do not have jobs leave, and unfortunately those who have jobs leave, and they are poorly paid for their work and their knowledge. We hear this again often in companies where they need their knowledge, where they are urgently needed for value added, for quality, good products, only with these can we be successful in the market. And because in other countries, Western, ugly capitalist countries, these people get more paid for their knowledge, unfortunately, they also leave. And with this, Slovenia is doing a great deal of damage and also to the Slovenian economy. Well, what we've done with the tax registers - they say there are now more than half the defenses in the markets that are or would earn a few euros more to make a better living. And since things are complicated, difficult to do in several places, in more places, they'd rather stay at home. And you say that you care about the social security of people and those who are in the worst social situation. We know that money must circulate, and I think that the winner will be the government that will be able to set up a suitable round of money, adequate burdens on employers, adequate wages for workers, and then also make it possible to make an appropriate round, invest in new jobs or spend citizens. But since you always bet on the wrong horses, this round stops and money falls into holes, into bank holes, into black holes, instead of getting to the people that need it. So the winner will be the government that will establish an appropriate round of this money in Slovenia. I have repeatedly said that this is no praise if a government boasts of giving more social assistance. They say help yourself and God will help you. This is our principle, allowing citizens to help themselves with their work first. But we will give social assistance to those who actually cannot help themselves because citizens do not want charity, citizens want to work for decent wages so that they can live a decent life. This must be our goal, the goal of our action. And with this logic, as you say, when we have to tax more, we will contribute to employers and citizens, workers, to get more money in the state treasury – no, more jobs, more employees will contribute to the state treasury. In New Slovenia we are Slovenians, we have solutions, this is New Slovenia, we are not complaining, we are looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u21	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u22	I listened carefully to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and I would like to start by thanking my colleagues from the SDS and colleagues from the Group of Non-Aligned Members who have seen some good intentions, some positive light in this proposal. Others, too, I think you were right in your discussions, but of course the two members of the group have come to a complete conclusion, one is certainly the Desus Group of Members, but I understand that at this point they are trying to get me back a little bit on account of other stories, but we will return to the pensioner. And I can't blame my colleague Luke Mesca, but I can't help him if he thinks that money is growing on a tree, that you can shake a tree and the money falls down. Unfortunately, this is not so that the budget is full that the state and the economy are functioning, it is necessary to work, it is necessary to create new jobs, because it creates some revenue in state treasury. But you can't blame your fellow moon because they always have tactics, they tell their ideological position, and then they go. But when I listened to everything, including the representative of the government, I found one thing — that virtually none of those who oppose this law mentioned the goddess. I will limit myself in this first intervention to this proposal first. I have said nicely that this law proposes three things: a social slipper, a development cap and a Christmas tree, that the law is made up of three parts, that we can, in principle, talk today about how we see what solutions and how we are actually looking for solutions. In the second reading, things that we don't like, things that may have too much financial implications for someone, we simply eliminate them with amendments. But the positive thing about all of today’s debates is that no one objected to Christmas or other taxation. Those of you who have cut down on this proposal have simply bypassed this proposal and you have not even mentioned it. I will be very specific so that you can imagine what we are proposing. January is a month where it must still be relatively fresh, December and Christmas payments and I will present you with a concrete case. The company that gave up for Christmas in December, listen to this, €812, employees received €458 in their personal bank account. Can you imagine how much the country takes from you? The country took €354 from this Christmas tree and wrote it down. We only propose a similar taxation of the Christmas tree as we know it in the regression. We don't detect hot water, we just pull a parallel. According to our proposal, if the law were to be adopted, the company that would give the worker the next December 812 euros would get the worker 683 euros, it is said that the state would take 129 euros at this Christmas house. Our proposal to tax Christmas differently would give a little more than €800 to a citizen at Christmas. Even the financial consequences of the Christmas tree are not so enormous. The Ministry went into calculations, conservatively calculated about €40 million there. Our institute has charged about 12 million euros there. I don't think it's a cost to jeopardize public finances. The Minister for Finance, the reward of good workers, has also thought about these things, unfortunately his proposal has only destroyed the economy and a new proposal is now available here, which he supports economically. All the employers' organisations supported this measure even the unions we met with. I think that this law could be seen by the light of the world already because this solution is included in it, i.e. a different taxation of Christmas. Parliament sometimes has to stand up a little for itself. The government coalition must also sometimes say that it is not only the voting machine of the government, but that we also have the opportunity in Parliament to come to a solution with dialogue. That is why we have also proposed a general debate so that we can talk in principle about these solutions and proposals. I sincerely believe, given the fact that different taxation on Christmas is an indisputable solution, which no one has opposed in this Chamber so far. If you are honest with the citizens and if you are not only concerned with political prestige, then it is minimal what you can do, that you let this law in the first reading, in the second reading, because you have the majority, with the amendments, eliminate both the social slipper and the development cap and finally we only have the Christmas Eve. It's just a possibility of a solution. Today, however, it will truly show how much there is here in this government coalition of new policies and how much political prestige there is. I'm going to leave the rest of my colleagues to talk about not spending too much time right now. About all the other eyewitnesses that were listed, and later.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u23	The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, prepare to be Mrs Urska Ban and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Exactly what my colleague Tonin mentioned before me is why I will support the law alone and both my fellow Members in this consideration. So, Christmas and that worker, if the employer gives him a prize, of course depending on the height, got half or even less of the money on his account. I myself listened carefully to the presentations of the parliamentary groups, and it was extremely interesting to hear the opinions of the coalition parliamentary groups. SMC said the coalition contract says we're gonna unload the work. I'll sign it. Desus says that we will not be burdening the work because it is already too much of a burden today, and more contributions need to be increased. And the third coalition party, this is SD says, in our economic programme we showed what we would do. And this is supposed to be an agreed coalition that will lead Slovenia into the future. Colleagues and colleagues, at least listen to about the same things to defend if you are still, if you are still a coalition. I have also warned in the opinion of the Group that it is absolutely impossible to reduce income alone. But you probably do not expect the opposition to tell you what needs to be done on the spending side. And here I want to say that I also disagree with all three proposals included in the law. More than 500 million decommissioned state budget without concrete cuts in expenditure cannot afford. And in my life, I've drawn up a number of budgets, state budgets, so I know that this is a very hard job and that 500 million is a lot of money. But once again, there is a third solution in the marriage, which we support practically all, but then, of course, the coalition comes: but three picks, we'll do it another time. But when it comes to fighting for a small man, Desus mentioned another, respected colleague and colleague, you have two MPs from Tržič, one from Desus and one from SMC, and see how you fight for a small man. After 113 years, you sent 118 people on the road. And this is a real struggle for a small man of this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u25	The word has Mrs Urska Ban, prepare to be mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President for your word. Today we are addressing the area of economic policy, where we quickly saw that we can come to a unified conclusion, namely that the wage burden in Slovenia is too high. And today, New Slovenia is proposing its solution, proposing an amendment to the Social Security Contributions Act, which follows the objective of amending or proposing measures aimed at reducing labour burden. And all the studies or analyses I have looked at show that the largest share of the labour burden in Slovenia is exactly social security contributions, which shows that the actual solutions to the workload in the labour costs need to be sought primarily or also in the compulsory social insurance system, as is followed by the applicant in his proposal. I also agree with this basic idea. The way in which implementation itself or the proposed measures, i.e. the content of the proposed law presented by the proposer, also has certain shortcomings in my opinion. The measures proposed by the proposer are social slippers, a development cap and a reduction in the taxation of Christmas trees, mainly in the form of a partial one and, more importantly, not all the key and important objectives are being pursued. However, I will only briefly touch on areas which, in my opinion, do not take into account or adequately define the proposed law. We now know that social security contributions are the largest group of benefits in the public finances system. An intervention in this system constitutes an intervention in the relationship between income and expenditure in the three public treasury funds, namely in the State budget, the pension fund and the health treasury. Then, on the existing scale of the basis for calculating contributions and the existing level of contribution rates, social security contributions are linked, on the other hand, to the extent of the rights we enforce by the insured. And by changing either the basis for the calculation of social security contributions or the level of contribution to social security contributions, while the extent of the rights of insured persons remains the same, solutions should also be presented where, in addition to the lack of contributions, the same amount of rights will be financed. And here is my thought regarding ensuring a lasting structural balance of public finances. In accordance with the fiscal rule adopted, all measures must first be balanced in order not to disrupt the fiscal balance and increase the structural deficit, as would have been the case when the proposed measures were implemented. This would mean a new public financial risk or threat of imbalances, which would have a lot of negative consequences in this respect. In its opening statement and even in the opinion of the Government, a representative of the Government has already explained the public financial implications. The government estimates that the overall net financial impact of all proposed solutions is a reduction of government revenues by around €800 million. On the one hand, it is indeed a matter of increasing the revenue of the state budget by 150 million euros, while at the same time reducing the income of pension and disability insurance by 600 million and the health insurance revenues of the circus by 330 million euros. It is important to know that these positive effects on the revenue of the state budget when such proposed solutions are adopted, however, they would not have had, as the State budget in the form of a transfer would have to provide the missing funds in the pension fund and this combined net effect would have been, as I said, EUR 800 million. And unlike the pension remittance transfer to health care is not possible, which would also mean a significant impoverishment of the health care basket. Therefore, this proposal does not take into account the maintenance of approximately the same level of the social state and does not take into account the nature of the system, the provision of a certain right in the event of an insurance case and the fact that the Slovenian social security system is based primarily on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. The main laws governing social contributions in the Republic of Slovenia are the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act, and we pay these contributions from the gross salary, and the employer is obliged to pay the contributions. In addition to these two contributions are paid for parental care, for employment and for injuries at work and occupational diseases, the employer pays the last. We have decided on this system because we also believe in intergenerational solidarity. And here I should say that, unlike taxes which are an unintended source of income and their payment are not related to the specific benefits or rights that would be due to the payment of the tax to an individual taxable person, social security contributions actually involve contributions from insurers and employers to ensure specific rights. Social security contributions therefore need to be addressed in the context of the social security system as a whole and not just as a cost and burden for the debtor. As we have already said, despite the high tax burden on wages, in fact, all taxes on wages are in some way also our benefits, which we or we will benefit from at a time when we are not working: either before the first job when we are young, or after the end of working time when we are going to retire. Of course, these taxes could also be lower, but then they should also be lower than all the benefits and rights guaranteed by the State from this way of collecting money. However, such a solution also meant a blow to social security, as there is also a high level of solidarity through such a system, and this is certainly not the path we would like to take. The existing social security system – and we would probably want even more – and the existing age and working structure require so much and so much resources. Otherwise, I support the idea of directing tax policy activities towards finding solutions to decommissioning, but taking into account public financial frameworks or constraints. The reason for decommissioning tax burdens from the average of European countries is, as we have already said today, due to the over-average burden of work and consumption and the under-average burden of capital and property. Solutions should therefore be sought in restructuring the burden of public duties, including the burden of assets. This implies that the distribution of the tax burden between consumption, income and property needs to be redefined, with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment and, on the other hand, reducing the burden of income from work. This will also play an important role in the property tax, whose changes will be introduced into the future. Furthermore, further implementation of measures to improve the efficiency of tax collection, strengthen the functioning of inspectors, follow the further debarcation of the tax environment, and where we have taken steps in the past year, we have adopted a new Law on the Tax Procedure. For all of this, as we have already said in the position of the Group of Members, we cannot agree with the proposed solutions included in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I'm going to start like this, we're Slovenians, we're looking for solutions, so at the end of the year, we've prepared a proposal for an economic programme, put it into a debate that we want to defuse the working class and the middle layer. If I touch on the proposal tabled by Nova Slovenija, I must say that this proposal was a good one at the beginning. However, when I took a closer look at this proposal, I soon realized that, by confirming this, they would lose a lower and medium-sized number of employees or that the pension allowance would be emptied. Is that what we want? I don't think so. However, on this site I would like to start with an article published this week on the Planet Siol Resnica on the taxation of Slovenian workers. I will quote: "Emergencies have been bubbling for many years that high wage burden is one of the biggest reasons for foreign companies to avoid investing in Slovenia." I have a specific case. In our place, I must say that the investor built a large company, Geberit, kept jobs in Slovenia, but I will tell you, not because the tax burden on wages would be so high, but because workers work so well and the quality of work is significantly different from that of abroad. This company had the opportunity to move all production to Hungary, but decided to develop and build a complex in this place. I have to say, people in this place are very good, because everything they do is doing well. We can see from this article that really Slovenian workers belong to the OECD countries after taxation. Taxes amount to 42.5%, which is not very low, while the average wage burden in EU countries is 36%; it is said that Slovenia has 9th place among 34 countries. Let me tell you where the biggest tax burden is: in Belgium, 55.6 %, I continue, in Austria, taxation is higher than in us, it is 49.4%, and in Germany 49.3%. We see lower taxes in Chile, only 7%, and New Zealand, 17%. The data is very interesting to me. Compared to Austria and Germany, as we Slovenians like to compare, taxes are higher, wages are higher. In both countries, I have seen, according to the data, that wages are higher, that the average salary is around EUR 2 000, what we have – a thousand 500 euros! Not to mention the lowest, minimum wage. In Slovenia, it will be even more obvious that people who receive wages do not have enough to survive. They address humanitarian institutions that help them to survive from month to month. It's scary, and it's totally unacceptable to me. Of course, pay for each worker is very important and often also the centre of attention, but we need to know, as I mentioned at the outset, that the length of work, annual leave, holidays, relations, etc. are also strongly affected in the labour law. However, if we look from an economic perspective, the impact of wages or wage heights is, of course, an indication of the overall economy and economic development. Thus, wages are an important source of income for the population and at the same time a basis for the financing and functioning of the social security system. Pay also has an impact on the whole society. While the applicant points out that wages are too heavy and that they need to be unloaded — he pays grossly with social security contributions. In this place, I could almost be attached, but the question is how much more money will be given to the employee, what does this mean for pension, cash health, what does this mean for parental contributions, for employment. According to the data we received, there would be a deficit in this treasury of 490 million. According to the government's assessment, this deficit is almost €760 less than for the pension, health allowance. Is that what we want? Not me personally. This would also reduce the insurance base, which means that the worker will receive a lower pension when he comes into retirement. Simply put, a worker would really get a higher salary, but at the expense of lower pensions, by also endangering the public solidarity system. I think we must finally be aware that the pay is really crucial for the individual as well as for the economy, as it allows for consumption and economic growth. Increasing social differences in society is unacceptable to me. So we all need to think about how to proceed. We have prepared this economic programme, which has solutions that provide a lot of these guidelines on how to save these solutions. That is why I think this proposal is very meaningful and has solutions. However, I would certainly like the employees to have a salary to provide them with social security, a decent life, and in particular, I must say that I want them to be such and so high as to enable them to have a decent survival at their age as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact that the situation in Slovenia is also worse in the field of minimum wage from year to year also shows data. In 2009, there were 19,000 people on minimum wage, and in 2014 there were 47,000. 47 000 people in 2014 tell us something that more and more people live on some side of society, in social distress. And what happened at that time? Practically nothing. That is why in Nova Slovenija we decided to make a programme that will bring more than EUR 50 per month to each of the 47,000 people. But they are all full of the mouths of a social group, the Social Democrats are looking for solutions, and I'm sure that's what Svetlik's reform showed in 2011, when 13,000 rural women got those farmers' pensions, they were sometimes told. Are these solutions? Is that a solution? That's not a solution! But it seems to me that we don't hear that something has to be done. And when New Slovenia comes with good suggestions to help these people, so that they can at least — or not even be worthy — survive — there are a lot of criticisms that we have not taken into account in tax collection, that solutions must be sought in the system of compulsory social security. Of course we know that! But who in this country has scissors and linen, and what has been done? What will happen or be done for all those workers who receive a minimum wage? Fourteen days ago, on TV Slovenia 1 in the Slovenian Chronicle, it was said that they received EUR 313 under the minimum wage. What did you do for those workers who get $313? Practically nothing has been done. And if this worker gets 50 euros more, it means 600 euros more at an annual level, it seems to me that this is some kind of incentive and a message from the state to him that he understands that he understands the hardship, that he also needs to take care of the even distribution of goods, but with this government coalition there is a lack of readiness. Please reconsider and understand, however, the need to work in this National Assembly for People.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman. Here you go, Mrs. Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Mr Tonin said in the introduction: "Let us do something good for the people." This was confirmed by the Member in front of me, but I wonder if it would be true with this law that you have prepared. I have the dilemmas and concerns that I will further substantiate. First, I'm gonna stop at a social security cap. The social cap means that those who receive higher wages than EUR 3 000 100, about, what is a 4 times gross wage in Slovenia, would not pay contributions over this amount for pension and disability and health insurance. But we must say, in terms of what this means, this social cap means, in the system of pension and disability insurance, solidarity with those of the lowest pension recipients who receive pensions from the lowest pension base. This is now about €670. And all those with a lower pension base than EUR 770 receive a pension of EUR 770. So where will the money be taken for these lowest pensions, for the lowest pension? We all know already that in Slovenia pensions are low, that they are still declining. In doing so, I would not only stress the coordination of pensions, but also the new rate of pensions. The new legislation, the PPIZ-1 and then the PPIZ-2 are designed to keep the newly-spent pensions ever lower so that the dose percentages are lower. And if it wasn't for this solidarity for a pension from the lowest pension base, I don't know where we'd go. EUR 760 is now this limit, or EUR 770. And we know how many workers or employees have lower incomes than €770 in Slovenia, and all of this provides a pension or pension of €770, of the lowest pension base. I don't know where we'd get the money for all these payments if we introduced this cap, as proposed by NSI. I would also like to comment on this. You say that this would limit the brain escape abroad, so that young people will stay with us, at home, in Slovenia. But, look, the highly educated personnel have, so I have data, on average, about two thousand 300 euros in salary. Well, that cap wouldn't hit them. This cap would only hit those top layers, top managers and others who have a gross salary so high. Well, we haven't done anything again to keep the young from us. I mean, we didn't lower them with this or raise their wages and lower the burden. I can't agree with that. Then it's about the contributions. I don't know, people's contributions should also be reduced, because they're too high and they're too high – just how do they get there? That's the only way we're going to be able to do it. Pensions and health bills are already in big trouble, the state is increasingly contributing to the pension fund, pensions are low – where we will take this money, the applicants do not say. Where we'll get extra health care contributions, pensions, so at least they'll stay at the current level. Social cop. With this social slipper, I kind of agree, but I don't know if we're just going to put the lowest load on these contributions, if it's going to constitutionally endure that one category of citizens or employees is paying contributions, the other one is not paying. I don't know. I can't tell. However, it would certainly be for this social slipper to be introduced, and that would be supported. Then unloading the 13th salary and Christmas to pay as many contributions as you make for the regression. I would say here again that there are not many companies that pay this 13th salary and Christmas, these are really the good companies that are aware of the capital that is in the workers. Only 15% of employees received this 13th salary and Christmas payment. I don't know if we've done anything for all citizens. Mr. Horvath said in the end that the biggest capital is man. I deeply agree with this and think as he does that we should really do something for the man, only from this proposal do I not see it. Capital owners don't know that, that's the problem. If we were aware of him, we wouldn't just be rich and poor. We have done more in this society to make the capital owners burdensome, and the workers have not felt this effect — unfortunately. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u34	There may have been some inaccuracies in the debate and perhaps it is right to comment on them. I would like to see this house matured to the realization that every employee in this country is twice the benefit of our country. First, there is no need to pay for certain social transfers, secondly, this person pays into health and pension bills. If this is going to be the starting point for us, then we're going to be able to talk a lot more about things. The second starting point, which should also be internalized in this house, is for as many people as possible to pay as low taxes. Today, however, this country seems to be marring those who pay taxes. But there's a group of people who don't pay. And higher than taxes, believe me, more people will avoid paying taxes and more questions will be asked, whether with or without bills and things like that. And that people can't get married indefinitely. Those of you who get to know the economy a little bit, I think a fellow moon is supposed to study the economy, then you should know exactly what Laffer's curve is, that up to some limit the revenue by increasing taxes, and then from some point on, nothing more. He should know very clearly. However we turn things around, you quoted how saving does not help with economic growth, in economic conversion, you quoted things as saying how lowering the capital tax does not start the economy. With these things, I can agree with you. I don't object to what you've said. But I say one thing, and that is what they say, if you want, ideologically left and right economists, that it is necessary to increase domestic consumption in order to start this economy. Now each of you should ask yourself how to increase domestic consumption or say even more simply how to make people spend more, buy more. Yeah, there's no other formula and there's no other way than to leave them in their pocket more and that what they have more can be wasted. Everything else is empty flaskules! Tell me if there is any other solution to increase domestic consumption differently than to leave more in people's pockets. O.K., I will say, I agree with you that taxation of capital in Slovenia is not a problem, that we are very competitive here or that we have low capital taxation compared to other countries. This is a non-problem, I agree. But the problem is the taxation of work. Even SD minister claims, I quote, "the main problem with minimum wage is labour costs." Many others have also debated today that the problem is taxation of work. It seems amazing to me whether you have listened to a very precise debate today that the two parliamentary groups, which are supposed to be a small worker, are the United Left and Desus, are actually advocating greater taxation of work. Understand who can! I simply cannot understand how advocates of workers and pensioners should take the initiative to be even more taxed. If the work is too taxed, I had, before I became a Member, Espe, I was an entrepreneur, many of you too, and most likely, if he looks around a little, very often face similar problems, if the work is too taxed, that entrepreneurs and businesses serve black jobs, that there are cases in Slovenia when they give you a minimum wage officially on your transaction account, and the rest you get in the envelope. This is all because the work is too taxed. If we want to take a bite out of this problem, we need to deal with it. I don't see any other options. When we were looking for solutions to how effectively in this problem of over-taxation, we were looking for solutions that would be simple and that would not put the current system that we have on our heads. We did not go to change these rates of contribution, percentages of contributions, but we tried to simplify our legislation and make it more meaningful. Tell me how you can find a simpler solution than telling every citizen, see, because your net income will increase, so that you will have more money left in your wallet, your country admits that you don't have to pay a contribution of EUR 3,000 300 a year. So everything you earn up to 3,000 300 euros, you don't pay contributions, everything you earn over it, you pay. A simple solution! That's, I'll say, some kind of flat-rate leave if you want. Nothing is complicated here, nothing there, but the solution is simple and because EUR 3 000 300 is uncontributed, this in particular means EUR 50 more net income for people with minimum wage, so that the gross minimum wage remains the same. Tell us how we can find a solution so that we do not burden an economy that is already complaining that it is too burdensome and that we can increase people's income at the same time. If you have a better solution, put it on the plan today, I guarantee you, we respect it! But I didn't find any other solution than what we suggested. Therefore, the minimum wage should remain at the same level and, due to the EUR 3 000 300 of unpaid income, the minimum wage will be increased by EUR 50 per month to those with minimum wage. In one year, that's another minimum wage. The ones you were talking about taking care of a little man, another question of mine. How could these 40,000 people today who are on minimum wage be helped more specifically than to ensure that they have more €50 each month in the account? How? With measures that will add two or three euros to those people who have a minimum wage, maybe five euros? With these five euros, they can't help each other completely, and these five euros won't turn into more consumption either. However, only a specific amount can contribute to higher consumption and one additional minimum wage is definitely the case. Some of you have stood out here, you've been afraid, and now what does this mean for those with the smallest income, for the weakest people, for the financially weak people, that because of the decline in the payment of contributions, pensions will also be reduced. Don't hold it. Look, look at you ZPIZ-2, where it simply writes to you inside, when it talks about the lowest basis for the calculation of the pension, it nicely writes, even though this amount is lower than this lowest base, it cannot be lower than the lowest pension base laid down by law. This is now 76.5% of the average monthly salary. Well, I'm speaking very honestly now. What you pay less for contributions to the weak will not mean a lower pension, but it will cost the country more. I'll admit it. Thus, either the pensioner's office or the state will be slightly more burdened by this measure, I am not even hiding it, and you have been able to figure that out yourself, but it is not the case that people who have a minimum wage would have a smaller pension as a result of this action. Look, if you don't believe me, if you're nodding, look at PIZ-2, where these things in there clearly and loudly write, what is the lowest basis for calculating your pension and what they can't go under. So once again, as a result of our action, people with a minimum wage today will not have a lower pension, but the country will have a higher cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vranick Erman. I'm sorry, Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you. I have to replicate to Mr. Tonin. I agree with this, of course, but I have stressed that the fact that pensions can be measured from the lowest pension base, which is now EUR 770, guarantees solidarity in the pension system. And this solidarity will now be thwarted. If we introduce a social cap, the contributions of those who have a pension base of more than 3,000 and several euros will not come into the pension register and the pension box office will not be able to provide solidarity with these contributions; hence, doses of pensions based on solidarity from the lowest pension base. I know this law, and you have interpreted it correctly, but I added that it is based on solidarity, not that this solidarity is now at the expense of the state treasury. The basic principle of this pension system, existing, is solidarity. And we must continue to cultivate this solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much. In the introduction, I put forward only a few key arguments which led the Government to conclude that, in view of the dictatorship provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is for the National Assembly to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In this part, I would like to focus on a slightly more in-depth argument on the individual elements that have been exposed in the debate. First, the country picks up. One part for the state budget, from which social transfers are financed and public investment pays in the public sector, is also included, but the main burden of labour costs is pension and health bills. This part of the contributions-based payments is inevitably linked to the rights deriving from the social security system. We have decided on a social security system and we continue to maintain it. In this social security system, we've decided on some level of mutual or, if you want, intergenerational solidarity. With such an intervention in the financing of this system, as proposed by this law, we cannot maintain the current system of social security, social security rights and the extent of solidarity we want in the long term. That is why I stressed in the introduction that we need a broader debate and context on all elements of social security systems in the country. I cannot agree with the idea that the solutions proposed are simple. It is easy to write them down, but they are extremely difficult to perform. Let me point out that the proposed cot is a reduction in the burden and, of course, the short-term higher available income for those who pay social security contributions at all levels, not only for those with the lowest base. But under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, pensions are protected for those with the lowest income. Those who have a pension base higher than this minimum will, of course, have a lower pension base because of the general relief that would be recognised in the payment of social security contributions, given that only this measure and no other pension is in place. The speech was, yes, also for those who receive the lowest wages and through the solidarity system already today, the state budget with the transfer to the pension fund additionally financed the payment of their pensions, and the speech was, yes, but the state will pay more. Where does the country get to pay?Oh, my God! Something was said that money doesn't grow on trees and that the stress of money falls down. This is also true of the country. The state does not have a printing plant to print money, but can, in fact, collect it on the basis of an agreement to collect through the tax system certain funds that we will spend on jointly agreed purposes. As a result, the evaluation of this proposal should be very careful when it comes to short-term and long-term effects, not only on cash public funding, but also on individuals. And the long-term effects on individuals are, in our opinion, negative without other accompanying measures. With regard to the payment of Christmases, since this is a slightly different story, one point should be noted. We cannot rely on legislation to allow for a more favourable treatment of a payment that is popularly called Christmas. This payment must be clearly defined in the legislation. Regress is defined through the Labour Relations and Collective Contracts Act. There is no Christmas house, and it needs to be defined in detail. And where is the special treatment in the system of contributions regulated for regression? In the Social Security Contributions Act? No, no, no. In the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act! So why regulate Christmas and a different basis for paying contributions in the Social Security Contributions Act if we want the same treatment as for regress? I am not saying that this solution, as far as Christmas is concerned, is not publicly sustainable or cannot be implemented in practice, but I say that it is not properly placed in the right law and that it is not adequately regulated and I have also pointed out this in my introductory debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor, please excuse me, Mr Zorman. Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you. I thank the Secretary of State that, however, she has also made public the fact that a measure or a proposal by the goddess can be carried out from a public financial point of view, if I have understood it correctly. If I didn't understand her correctly, she'll fix me further. So, we've taken one important step forward. As far as the inclusion of the resolution of a different Christmas tax is concerned, it's not going to be the right law. But also the regression is regulated in some way in this law, and when you have a chapter there that talks about the basis for contributions from the incomes of work, there is also mention of the regress for the annual vacation and we just added that for extraordinary payments in the form of the so-called Christmas to be charged and paid on the same occasion as for the regress. But you know how many such and other laws have been passed in the National Assembly, when many have warned that this would be wiser to regulate this or that law, but it is a matter of substance, and here the point is that the taxation of Christmas is to be reduced and this law is regulated. This time, if I had previously worked in my first intervention only Christmas Eve, then in the second intervention of social slippers, it is right now to say a few things about the development cap itself, how this rich cap should have been, what some of you have said in your views. Every tax system, of course, in the social state as Slovenia is supposed to be, must be solidarity and fair. Solid in this sense that those who have more pay more than those who have less, but at the same time must also be fair, to put it all together in some dimensions, in some frames. If I am very specific now, then I can say that those who have a minimum wage today or compared to us, Members, logically and equally, pay less at the pension register, pay less at the health treasury. At least as far as healthcare is concerned, we are receiving all the same services. This means that when you go to him, for various reasons, your doctor does not ask you what your salary is and what high contributions you pay, but solidarity is ensured that if you pay in this system, you receive the same rights and benefits. That was why it was an incorrect debate that said how this development cap would now reduce health services or health rights for some – it will not be because the principle of the same is still true that we are all entitled to the same rights. One more thing that I find incredible. Those of you talking about a rich hat, don't overlook that rich people already have that hat. I'll be very specific again. For espé, the social or development cap is placed at a level of just over 5,000 euros. All owners of companies, shares or other capital shares are tax-optimised in a variety of ways, as is commonly called. Many times owners or rich people display a minimum wage, while all other things optimize as much tax as possible, all the way to tax havens. For whom exactly would this development cap be applied? For those who are regularly employed in companies that are not even business owners, but who work in and out of businesses because of their work, skills because they innovate, their ideas create new jobs and are in a regular working relationship and therefore have higher wages. You're saying that they're rich people and they're unjustifiable rich people who don't deserve this limit, where they pay social contributions. Let us be very specific, and let us sometimes look at cases in people. It's very simple and popular to say, it's a rich cap, we're not rich people, but the facts are different. Even that development engineer in Akrapovič or elsewhere who would receive such development caps will still pay much more for social contributions than someone who receives minimum wages, even here solidarity is still guaranteed, but from your demogo discussions it is possible to feel that these rich people will not pay any contributions anyway. That's not true! They will continue to pay the highest contributions, only with the difference that there is a limit placed somewhere, as neither the state offers borderless health services nor pensions up there are limited, have a limit set. Here I said that one is solidarity, and thus solidarity is ensured that those who have more pay more, and justice must also be guaranteed somewhere. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u41	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Get Mr. Luka Moon ready. Here you go, Mr. Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u42	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution states that Slovenia is a legal and social state, and as long as it does so, the state will have to take care of certain rights that citizens enjoy in both the social and health fields. Of course, the proposal has some logic, and they say they don't complain and offer solutions, but it's not a solution, it's just an idea. The solution would be if, on the other hand, what the state would either go through a budget or a health treasury lose would bring in another way, then that is the solution. What the proposer, Nova Slovenija, proposes is only half-baked. You gave an example of how much, for example, one company that pays 812 Euro Christmases, of which a worker receives little less than 500 Euros. Yes, it is, but what are these contributions about? These contributions are about all the social and health rights we enjoy, and let me just list them. Pension is one of these matters; parental leave, maternity leave, paid hospital leave, unemployment compensation. Tell those who lose their jobs that they will no longer receive, for example, unemployment benefits or that their remuneration will be significantly lower. It's not much now. Kindergarten subsidies, free studies, etc. In health care: free healthcare, free medicines, free medical devices. This costs, and this country pays in some way, either from the budget, where I say, complements every year the pension allowance to ensure that pensioners receive their pensions, and on the other hand, the health treasury or treasury office of the Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia, which is financed by health contributions and pays for all the health services that citizens benefit from. This proposal of yours, this idea of yours, of course, is good, but on the other hand we cannot ignore the fact that the contribution to health insurance would result in a $300 million drop; 300 million less money would occur, in which case the adoption of this law would, of course, result in a health allowance and 600 million less in a pension allowance. Let me just remind you that every year the state of Slovenia in the cash register of the ZPIZ is Circling a billion 400 billion 500. This is called a billion 500 million additional funds to provide sufficient funds for the payment of pensions. In health care, this is all the more complicated because health-care stores cannot not be in debt or can not be funded by the State, but they must pay all the services with what they receive through their contributions. You have already spoken, of course, of course we spoke a while ago, or several references are made to longer waiting periods. These longer waiting periods are, of course, also due to a lack of inflows, which are already under-injecting into the health register today, and this proposal of yours would still significantly reduce this inflow. From this title of your proposal, because it does not offer, as I said, this other solution, but where to replace money in the pension and health allowance, of course we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u44	Slovenia is already covering the loss of the pension allowance and health allowance, and these proposals may make these losses slightly higher. This will also cover Slovenia or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, except that today these losses are covered in a way that will literally take some of the money away from you at the salary and give it to cover the loss of these two cash registers, and, on our proposal, you would, by spending this money that the state leaves you, through other taxes to the state, pay it back to cover it, only the order is slightly replaced. We advocate that even when you spend, you pay taxes and then you fill the state treasury; you say that things need to be taken away from you at the start, here we are different. About the resources, I'll try to be more specific. We did not want to endanger Slovenia's public financial stability because we are aware that this is important. That's why we didn't make up a law that would demagogically predict the entry into force tomorrow, but we proposed the implementation of this law with the next state budget, which is 1 year. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. By 2018, we have some time to adjust and adapt certain things to cover this smaller cake that the country would collect because of leaving more in their pockets. You've already talked about some things today. I also remember you talking about how tax receipts will bring more into the state budget. This may be an additional source; it is said, the persecution of the grey economy, this is an additional charge to the state budget. Today, it has been said several times that only the existing tax debt in Slovenia is such that it would practically cover for one year all this loss caused by these measures. Another thing that everyone in this debate is neglecting is the need to make dynamic calculations. So, the ministry charged 800 million, we charged 500 million, but it's all conditioned by how many additional inflows there will be. The ministry has been more in conservative calculations, but we are more optimistic about creating more jobs from this title. And each job more represents an additional source of income for the country. That's why we need to look at the whole picture.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u45	Here you go, replica, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you, Chairman. I don't think my colleague Tonin understood me very well. I said there's not enough inflows to the pension and medical bills already. What he is saying is that the loss of cashiers, which would have been further created if their bill was adopted, would have been paid by the State. Where, if it's too small now? We have a solidarity system in Slovenia, and as long as we have a solidarity system, it is known that those with more inflows pay in some way for those with smaller inflows. Do we want to have America, where certain people, say, sleep under a bridge, without health insurance, can't go to a doctor or a hospital, and we have some who are normal? We do not have this in Slovenia because we are a social state and we are concerned that this is the case. That's the biggest difference. One more thing. Some interesting logic is present with the Slovenians – on the one hand we accuse the country of how expensive it is and how it takes it and how fast it takes it, but as soon as we get to a situation when we need something, we say that the country must give. But we forgot about that before, but we didn't give something to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Proposer, please, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u48	This is a real parliamentary debate, and I enjoy exchanging our views that this is not an anemic debate. Comrade Zorman, I understand exactly what you're saying. I understand that pension and health bills are already producing a minus and that the state has to pay for these cash registers today. The only difference between us is that you estimate that this minus can be covered and this cashier can only be filled with additional taxes, if I am very specific, so defend Desus and the United Left, thus increasing the contribution rates, so that this kind of thing can be filled, but my point is that with new jobs, so if more people have jobs, these things will be filled faster. If there were three employees in the past to one pensioner, this ratio is now lower than 1 to 1.5. I think we have already exceeded this point and that we need to think about ways to get more people to pay in these cash registers; not those who are already paying even more. That's the basic point. Perhaps for those of you who will be discussing today also in the light of what the President of the Government is saying and who has a particular inscription before him to seek solutions, I would like to hear from fellow Members today what your proposals are. Maybe the Social Democrats have laid down something that they have proposed, put together, but try to be proactive, not only do you say, New Slovenia is wrong, we disagree with you, everything will go "zugunde", but together we are looking for solutions and tell us how you would solve this problem and what you would do to make people have more in your pocket. That's the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go, Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. In proposals like this one before us, we need to first look at the state of the country; and this situation could not be more eloquent; we now have half the pensioners who receive such small pensions as do not allow them to exist; we have one third of the pensions financed from the budget, because there is little money in the budget; we have 200 thousand people at this point in the health sector waiting in line to get to the doctor so that they can cure their problems. It's a condition. The situation is that both pension and medical checkbooks are fed, empty and unable to provide, they cannot provide for those who need their help. In fact, the proposal that is ahead of us significantly reduces the inflows in these two cash registers by an additional billion and 17% of all assets. This means nothing more than a further decline in the quality of health care, a further reduction in pensions, a further vacation of the state treasury. I agree with you, Mr Tonin, money doesn't grow on trees, absolutely. This is the first matter to be said in doing so, and this is the main reason why we cannot support this proposal in the United Left. Another thing to say is that these myths are about creating new jobs and economic growth that this proposal is supposed to bring. If they weren't superficial, we could look at some data for Slovenia. For example, Banka Slovenije issued a report in 2013 that I mentioned earlier, which very clearly explains what multipliers are like: if state consumption rises by 1% of GDP – it is said that if 1% of GDP were raised more and invested or the country would spend it, this would mean 1.6% increase in private consumption, 1.1% increase in investment and 1.6% increase in GDP. On the other hand, since this money needs to be collected, a 1 % increase in taxes would mean that GDP is reduced by 0.4 %, private consumption by 0.05% and investment by 0.35%. So we'd be all over the place with this kind of action on the green branch. On the other hand, if we paint what the effect of tax cuts will be, private consumption will probably rise very little, as this multiplier also shows, and somehow very little will be known about GDP. This is what former first-Yanšev government development minister Jože P. Damian, who, in fact, described in Friday's annex the development of his thoughts in recent years and said very clearly that he was wrong about the efficiency of taxes in promoting the economy. I quote: "The experiment of ZUJF and the reduction of profit tax are expected to bring economic growth. But the opposite followed, a shift from a trend of two-year growth to a new recession and a huge increase in the gap in the budget [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. [[…]] Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I understand the New Slovenia proposal mainly as a shortcut, how to start by reducing the social state and how to start by abolishing solidarity. Above all, I think that you have made it easy for the wrong side to resolve this problem — by reducing contributions. The idea itself is not innovative, this has already happened once, in 1996, when contributions were reduced to pension and disability insurance. For several years, this drop replaced the tax on paid wages, which was abolished between 2006 and 2009, and the result, of course the result is on the palm; poverty has increased. Today, we have many people who, of course, can't finish with the end, and in fact you would just make this situation even worse. Of course, made worse by what? You're arguing that with your proposal, people would get more in their pocket. Yes, in some ways you would get more in your pocket, but at the same time you would not tell them how much more they would – on the other hand – at the expense of reducing social contributions, say health care and the like, withdraw – substantially more than you would give them with your proposal – how much your proposal would cost them also health reforms treated in this way. Much more than you're putting them in your pocket. Of course, it's a good idea on its own. Moreover, we are also aware that the competitiveness of the economy needs to be increased. But are the contributions exactly right or the fastest way? Probably the fastest, but not the right, given that the competitiveness of the economy depends on many other conditions. Not least by looking at why we are not interested in foreign investors and investors. Surely this is not only a starting point in contributions, but we have a number of other problems: long-term bureaucratic procedures, labour legislation, spatial legislation, management and interference with management systems. Last but not least, we cannot boast, at least not according to the data, even after the efficiency of the work itself. It is said that the potential for improving the competitiveness of the economy in all other areas where you have not proposed a solution is significantly more. But you have made the most easy for the people, and for the people of Slovenia the most harmful solution. It is said that the social state is being reduced in the light of the appearance of a popular proposal to reduce or insert a social cap up and down. In addition, I think it is a proposed amendment, which constitutes an essential intervention in the social security system, without adequate solutions in the areas I have mentioned, pensions, health care, indeed an unworthy solution. It's basically a social-state assassination. You admitted it but you didn't admit it. Of course, I would expect significantly different solutions to improve competitiveness, especially with regard to the group of people you are defending and which I believe are probably not in the richest category. I think that this question is important to this extent, that it also seems unworthy to try somewhere through the side doors, to introduce a social state restriction after some shortcut, and that we need a much broader social consensus and debate, including a wider, people who understand and understand this question. Because I believe that many people don't know enough or don't know enough what a social hat means up and down and down. Perhaps to be the end, colleague Horvat, when presenting the opinion of the parliamentary group, showed the booklet Slovenians we are, we have solutions. Yes, we are Slovenians, for the solutions you are proposing – no thanks because I don't think they're good and they're hurting people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that almost all of us agree that work is too taxed and, on the other hand, the Social Democrats point out that profits are undertaxed. Therefore, I believe that the right solution is to partly increase and balance taxes on the other hand when reducing labour taxes, namely on the capital side and on the profits side. Instead of tax reliefs for those who already receive the highest income, I believe that it is more appropriate, as we stand for the Social Democrats, to increase the taxation of profits to a European comparable level and at the same time to reform the income classes, which would put a more fair burden on the middle population. We would therefore like to introduce a 34% income class that would burden the upper middle class while raising the tax ceiling of the 27% income class to EUR 30,000, which would mean higher net wage for the middle class. The adoption of the New Slovenia proposal would mean a reduction in the revenue for health and pension allowance even for 490 million, according to the Government's estimate of even EUR 760 million, which would mean that the social security of employees is at risk at the expense of a slightly higher net salary; hence, lower pensions and a threatened public health system. If anything, it must be clear to us that the growing inequality when a handful of people own more than many others together is certainly not the right way. I will stand as our party, the Social Democrats, for fairer taxes and a stronger middle class, not for the privileges of the richest. Of course, I cannot support the proposed law. If, for example, I recall a little of 2007 when the tax reform was introduced by Mr Bajuk, who introduced the smaller classes, the low-set 41% class, and this relief cost the budget of 980 million euros. So much for thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare for Mrs Vojka Šergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! I must say that I have heard many statements or statements today that I absolutely cannot agree with. Here we can see that we have different, very different views on how things are supposed to work in Slovenia. The first thing I want is what has been repeatedly exposed to reducing the social state. I'm asking you nicely, where do you come up with such claims? Personally, I think that the economy is the one that should be the center of everything, the backbone of everything; the well-functioning economy depends on how things will work in the country. Depending on how much comes into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, it depends on what education we have, what health care we have, how we can provide security in our country and so on. But what's going on with us? With us, however, the most pressing is those who work and, of course, the real sector. Of course, we are all very proud of economic growth. And who is he and will be deserved by the predictions? Exporters. Who are they? These are companies, economists. We are all committed to ensuring competitiveness for the economy. Yeah, how?Oh, my God! By putting extra pressure on them? The economy needs to be unloaded. You all agree that wages are absolutely overtaxed, but they would not be burdened, under the pretext of endangering the social state. Total absurdity. How many unemployed do we have today? Around 113 thousand, I don't know the exact number right now. How many did we have in the pre-crisis period?Oh, my God! Almost 50,000 jobless people less. Where these unemployed people will be employed — it is probably in everyone’s interest that all these people work. Where are they gonna get a job?Oh, my God! Will you employ them in the public sector to reduce unemployment, or is the goal of these people being employed in the real sector in the economy? When will the economy become employed? Yeah, when he gets a little light on the other side. And lower wage taxation is certainly due to the fact that the economy will start employment in order to increase jobs. But of course, your attitude is different. You have employers, I don't know, for fraudsters, just companies getting bankrupt Or did you ask yourself how many state-owned companies went bankrupt and why it went bankrupt? [[…]] Of course, you probably don't want to do this. But we'd have extra taxes. What taxes? A real estate tax or a gas cent, which is also a tax? Taxable cashiers — total nonsense. Margaret Thatcher came to my mind, which says something like this: The problem with socialism is that sooner than later the money of others is running out. And it also seems to me that sometimes he is in Slovenia, even though we are no longer in socialism. I would really like everyone to finally see together that the only solution is to burden the economy both fiscally and administratively. Economists have been pointing out this for years, pointing out that labour taxation is too high. You all agree, and this is not least agreed by the employees, because when they get the payroll, they see very well what is the net and what comes on their transaction account, what does it say as a gross salary. Let me remind you, also, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly mentioned that wages are too taxed and even in the coalition contract you have written this down, although obviously part of the coalition has already forgotten that. I estimate that Slovenia is extremely underdeveloped Many times you have spoken, you want a developing Slovenia. [[…]] What is developmental is that the employees receive EUR 600 net salary, that is the cost of the employer or that they give the country EUR 300, because it costs about EUR 900 – I am not talking about the exact amount, but the indicative amount. For a net amount of thousands of euros, it gives the country 700 euros. However, if we get to the net amount of EUR 2 000, it means that together the other gross is more than EUR 2 000, which means that in such a wage, such wages are, of course, very little in Slovenia, but in such cases, the country deserves more than the worker does. But it's for Desus' colleagues. I don't know, it's rich hats. You invented it here today. I really wonder whether this is a fair system, whether these amendments proposed by the proposer threaten solidarity. No way, it still exists! Is it developmentally stimulating what we have today? It's not! This proposal would at least slightly correct whether our current system is blocking or not entrepreneurship. Answer that question for yourself. Is it blocking the entry of foreign investors into Slovenia? What do they most say about what is too high — the cost of doing just that! Therefore, Slovenia is not suitable as a location for the entry of foreign investors. Last but not least, we wonder if he is aware of honesty itself. Why? Because he punishes those who are most productive, those who work the most. Again, it's not about solidarity. We still have a very solidarity system if we fully accept these proposals, which have been presented here today. The OECD study has already been mentioned. The OECD is an organisation of developed countries. Here we are in ninth place after the workload, 42.5%. The average is 36%. Very much. And we've heard that Austria and Germany have more taxed. Yes, you do, but you know, I'm a little closer to the Austrian border, and there's a lot of day-to-day migrants working in Austria, and very high rates get with Furs because they have to pay the difference in income. Why? Because with us very quickly, given what they get, they fall into what they get, I'll say, a fixed highest income class. And then we look at the other side, they have the 13th, the 14th salary. How much is this taxed in Austria? Six percent. It's like we're regressing the Christmas tree, we have a comparison. So, how do other countries work? Much more stimulating, much more developmental, not like us. I'm just personally assessing that actually, by raising the net salary, they would make a huge difference. On the one hand, we'd have more money for the employees, for the workers. This money would absolutely be spent. I'm sure we'd spend it. The country would receive more from VAT, the economy would have more work and not least, if we had a little less tax work, we would also have fewer jobs in black, and we would have less unfair competition, and we would not need the tax receipts we have today, because we will not get them because they do not have registered activities. And what else would have happened? Professionally qualified people wouldn't go abroad. Ask yourself a few questions and ask yourself, on the other hand, how one such qualified staff has become a country, has become Slovenia. From kindergarten, elementary school, high school and colleges forward and when it comes to the period when something starts to return to the budget, it goes away. Me, of course, leaving! And I'll read you what's 15. 9. 2014 at the hearing said Minister Marble: "We are in fourth place among EU countries with contributions." He was talking about a permanent income class of 41%. The upper income class, when you get there, is very heavily taxed. It's taxation of the good. We actually have those who are studying, who are trying, who are innovative, who are internationally open and so on – and they deserve it. We hit them right now. Of course, it can be perfectly fine if you are in some environment where people can't go, but the international environment is that these people are more valued and less taxed and that is why the better are actually leaving. That's what your minister said. And how I agree with him. That is precisely why we should do more in this direction. Then let's take a look at the company. You think they're bad guys. But you know, companies want to pay extra employees, they want to give them Christmas. We've heard of it, not a lot of Christmas businesses. I'd give a lot of money if this Christmas wasn't so taxed. Sometimes the employees don't want it either, because then they're deprived of many other benefits, from paying kindergartens, children's allowances, etc., because they're immediately falling into a higher class. As I have already said, a reduction in labour taxation would certainly encourage employers to create new jobs. And of course, this is also crucial for investors who go where the environment is more favourable for them. And how we would need them in Slovenia, how we would need them! This proposal, which was made by the applicant, is certainly going in the right direction. It may not be ideal, however, that it is a very reasonable time to enter into force 1. 1st year 2018. Well, it's enough time to renegotiate and find a decent solution. And I absolutely appreciate that this isn't a shortcut, but it's the only right direction in the long run. In fact, I was greatly disturbed by this reply from the Government, which reads: "It is necessary to point out that the proposal, as set out, constitutes a significant loss of public finances, which is not acceptable in terms of financial sustainability." More or less, what more would we get in the cash register, and not least, what would we give out of this joint cash register. I believe that we all agree that we would like to spend less on social transfers, because people would have employees, and these people would also put in our cash register. In this way, I do not see any danger to either the pension or health allowance. Once again, this proposal may not be completely complete, but it is certainly a step in the right direction, so I absolutely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor to prepare Mrs. Mag. Jana Jenko. Here you go, Mrs. Private Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! First of all, I have to respond to my colleague's discussion, here in particular, I would like to stress that we do not underestimate economists in the SMC, that we do not think about entrepreneurs being phallots, and we just want such legislation to be adopted, which somehow balances both on the one hand the social partners and on the other hand entrepreneurship. I think that the goal and must be the goal of all of us in Parliament, in particular, to take care of all segments of people, because everyone in their area needs a quality life in this country. That is why I do not think we should debate this way, that we are one against and underestimating entrepreneurs – indeed, no! We advocate that they too have a good basis for their business. In the SMC, we understand the intention of the proposer to reduce the workload. We also support this objective in principle, but, as I said in the introduction, however, structural measures must first be taken to reduce public spending and somehow balance it. This is the only way to reduce the negative impact on public finances, as some indicative assessment of the implications for both pension and health care is over €500 million. I don't think we can afford to make such an imbalance in public finances right now. The adoption of such a law would also be a major threat to public finances themselves, of course also observed by international institutions. The international institutions would take this threat to public finances very seriously, but what would be the consequences? Encouragement and additional indebtedness of the State. As a result, this means borrowing banks and this certainly would not have a positive impact on the functioning of the economy. If, on the one hand, we were to ease and relieve the work and, on the other hand, encourage debt and make it difficult for the economy to be indebted, I think we would do the damage again. It is therefore necessary to take this seriously with consideration. In line with the fiscal rule, which somehow measures each other's balance, and the structural deficit should also not increase due to the fiscal rule. Therefore, in the Modern Centre Party, we are primarily committed to tax restructuring. Reducing the burden of work will require more complex, simultaneous, coordinated measures, and more areas need to be looked at and balanced. These measures would also require, at least that is my opinion, a broader social and political consensus. If we want to reduce the burden of work, we must also have a comparable level of social security, we must ensure the sustainability of public finances, including pension and health bills. There is also a need to ensure the positive impact of taxes and social security contributions. In short, in the Modern Centre Party, we believe that we need dialogue, consensus, cooperation for the good of people. And on this occasion, I also invite the proposer that, as we proceed to the restructuring of taxes, we begin to cooperate well, to listen and also to try to maximize these taxes for the benefit of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Jana Jenko. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The first thing that came to my mind when I read the bill, I thought, but perhaps Mr Tonin wants to raise his salary, because by lowering his contributions, the tax contributions would also be reduced for Members. Maybe he wants to rebuild the apartment, buy a weekend out of it, at the expense of the citizens of the money he's saved. Indeed, as the bill states, all engineers do not have such salaries and would not have them, unfortunately. They're going out, maybe even because of the bad conditions in working groups, maybe that's the biggest reason. Maybe factories are underinvesting in development. As early as 1995, the contribution rate for pension and health insurance to companies had fallen from 15.5 to 8.85 %. What did companies do with this saved money? If I only take Pekko — he obviously didn’t go into development because they died in this area, they didn’t update. With this proposal, pensions would be impoverished by about 600 million and health care for about 300 million. So in order to preserve the social situation as it is now, at this level, this should contribute to the budget. There's no money in the budget either. We are always "buckling" when we adopt the budget, which ministry, whose items will be reduced and which really urgently need to be increased. And social security needs to be maintained. With this proposal, there will be no money in the budget and neither will there be money in the cash registers. Pecko only needed $2 million at the time, but he didn't get it. Only $2 million. And here we would have made the cashier's allowance of 900 million. We didn't get that money in Pek, so today the workers are on the road. Mrs. Bratuškova said that we are here two MPs from Tržič. That's right! But let me remind her that I was also an MP when she ruled when she was prime minister. At that time, I called two meetings, one board meeting and one National Assembly meeting. She wasn't fond of saving Peck. She left the matter to Mr Misic and invested $40 million in Cimos; she could not invest two million in Pekko. Let's see where Cimos is today too – the money went for the mushrooms, it seems. What she did during her tenure in Tržič, she evidently had only a purpose in recruiting. Let's not give him a hard time about it. This was not the way, nor did she want to come to Tržič to familiarize herself with the situation in Pek. I do not support this proposal for a law, because this would primarily lead to a higher layer, which would remain lower on the same or worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was afraid that the discussion would go to a personal level, that the discussion would also go as an attack on the late Minister Dr. Andre Bajuk, the best finance minister of the past 25 years, but this is the image of some here present. 8 of the 12 richest Slovenians have businesses, live and work outside Slovenia. Does that tell you anything? One half of the pensioners can't survive a month, said Luka Moon. That's a fact, I sign. Almost 50,000 people on minimum wage and the trend is increasing. That's the statistics. We agree with that. We agree that money doesn't grow in trees. And to me, a very kind Member, I truly appreciate it, colleague Marinka Levičar, asked a key question today: Where are we going to take it? I'm just adding that we're going to fund the social state. We're all for the welfare state. We are all in favour of respect for the Constitution, including the fiscal rule, which we cannot respect and enforce because you have not yet come up with a proposal for fiscal council, colleagues and colleagues from SMC! I will support the restructuring of taxes – where do you have them in the regulatory plan for the work of the Government for 2016 and 2017? The Austrians also changed the income scale. The one who had and has 2,000,500 gross will receive 500 euros more on an annual basis. We changed it, too. With the same grossness, you will receive €97 more at our annual level. These are differences, colleagues and colleagues, and it is therefore clear what Gini’s coefficient tells us – that we are a very egalitarian society, but sadly, egalitarian in poverty! Check out the e-mails today, colleagues and colleagues, professors, professors from the Faculty of Social Work, responsible for one institution or one lady who is responsible for poverty in our country: the first President of the Government, the second Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, equal opportunities, family and so on and the financial minister. That's what the professors are writing, and they're saying that they probably didn't buy this address. Colleagues and colleagues, sometimes economically, they only competed with corporations, economic corporations. Today, countries are competing with each other, so the institutions of countries, including Slovenia, must make a competitive business environment. Aya, where are we on our scale? Have you heard of a slim state? Have you ever heard of optimisation of the public sector, the state sector? There's money! I'll back him up if he's smart, real estate tax. Bring it today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I understand and welcome the intention of the proposer, who puts this law into some form, at first glance, a kind proposal. However, this desire to reduce the burden of work, which offers its vision of this problem, may have another purpose for our public finances. That is why in the SMC we support this direction as such, but we must say that there is one great danger here, namely the risk of negative consequences for public finances, for social, for health and pensions. We must not forget, however, that we have all introduced a common golden fiscal rule, and this proposal by NSI would, in some grave assessment, constitute an increase of 1% to 2% of the structural deficit, which is unfortunately not acceptable at this time. I certainly agree that these changes are clearly necessary – as structural, as comprehensive as we say – and that this matter is too long, we can say all over Slovenia's history. The task of this government, especially the Ministry of Finance, is to work towards reducing the tax burdens of work, and we will also insist and expect some serious and concrete work and measures in the SMC, it is said in this direction. I hope that, among others, the NSIs will be invited in the future with all other stakeholders to make constructive proposals to address this problem. In speaking of this, it is also important to say that changes in the area of public charges should actually improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment, notably by removing administrative burdens, by restructuring the burden of public duties and, on the other hand, ensuring stable and predictable public financial revenues. If I finish. Reaching the workload is one of the priorities of the government and also the work of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, with general systemic measures and other tax measures, the possibility of stable further economic growth must be supported and, unfortunately, we cannot support this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I think it's developed a rather interesting debate, which I think is good. Initially, I would like to begin with the approach taken by NSI before this meeting. I also had this opportunity to be presented to me with their proposal, so that we could speak about it at the end of the day in the House, so I certainly consider this part to be good and positive. As for the slipper and the cap, I've already said this in some way in the parliamentary position, but as far as this Christmas is concerned, it's going in some direction that we've been thinking about. Their solution is, which is the advantages or features of my concepts, especially that it is a simple, familiar way, as the regress is saved, perhaps even one part is better in a certain element, because it foresees an average salary for the previous year, which means that it does not vary for you every month. Here, however, it is necessary to say that certain solutions are interesting and we will probably still talk about them, but still, why not support, so that maybe we can finish this, because as SMC, we have a slightly different idea. One attempt was somehow last year at the end of the year, but I think it was unfortunate, given that we did not properly harmonise it before it came to the public, and there it appeared that we would still like to put it in a slightly different way, because we think it would be more effective in this way. As far as the comments are concerned, I think it was on the part of my colleague Pogačnik that the proposal goes 80% in the right direction. However, I think – given the need to balance public finances – if 80% is going in the right direction and if this is a billion, it is said to have approximately effects, then somehow it drops to some 200 million, it is said, we are resolved on the expenditure side and this solution looks something like that. You have a back of Jon, you cut him, and he's got that haircut he always has, and you send him out in the winter at minus 20. It'll freeze, so it'll freeze our pension system as well as freeze the health system. I don't think it's 80%, it's probably one part, but it's not that far-reaching. Then another matter that was also exposed to Austria. This effect for €5 billion, however, has to be said, Austria, when we go to the comparative data for 2013, had 43.4%, as far as taxes are concerned, of how much the country is collecting at the end of everything. Slovenia 37,3. If Austria wanted, relatively speaking, to achieve the same ratios as the Republic of Slovenia, it should reduce the tax rate by more than EUR 25 billion – it reduced by 5 billion. Which means, as you can see, there are 5 billion in the eyes of someone from the Republic of Slovenia, but Austria has about 330 billion GDP there, and we are there at about 40. I mean, we still have to put things in a relationship when we talk about numbers. It is said that Austria has reduced, but far from coming to our level, we are talking about almost, or around, 5 percent of the difference, which is not enough. Then, if we move on, as far as the rich Slovenians are concerned, they're going abroad. However, it must be said that whatever country this richest structure is located in, it is fleeing abroad. It's an international practice. You can also have countries that do not have taxes at all, but run abroad, because they protect their assets, there are other reasons here; it is legitimate, where it is legitimate, but it is not legal, things will be resolved. I think that here Slovenia is still someone who works – we are doing good in this area. This is not the last thing the OECD experts have told us. 14 days ago they came to say that Slovenia is one of the more proactive in BEPS; this is said to be the area where we are dealing with the erosion of the tax base for the purposes of corporate tax. Even for that area, which will at least be very important in the European Union area, it will be important to stop the unfair practices used by some countries. That's how steps are going to be done here, and there will be some effects. As far as it's concerned, [[…]] With what has been said, I fully agree; whoever you ask whether you would like to pay less taxes will say yes, or whether you will ask the Member or anyone else. But, on the other hand, especially with regard to contributions, we need to look at what has already been highlighted more than once today, the contributions are linked to certain rights, to a basket that exists, we have set it up, and given that, as far as our policy is concerned, we somehow agree that it should be maintained to some extent, of course optimized and so on, prevent abuse, but remain a social state; it means that on the other hand, it must remain financing the social state in one way or another, because if not, it cannot be. Then again, the one that repeats itself, the reduction of taxes, the combined growth of GDP. I mean, there's a fellow moon, today I agree with him, said a study by Banka Slovenije. These studies, international, are one small sea, and in there it is found. It is true that there is no correlation in the long run between you lower taxes and higher GDP growth, or, I don't know, some employment and so on. This relationship does not exist, so this does not mean that we do not support changes in the structure and so on, it just means that we cannot take this as an argument when we decide how we will structure taxes. Because it does not contain practical or, after all, theoretical judgement. Then this socio-market model has been mentioned several times, and this is about Germany, it's about Austria, where this model is supposed to be successful. These countries are successful, but again: Germany has 39.6% of GDP, it is said that in some ways the state, Austria, as already said, 43.4, Slovenia 37.3 – I speak data for 2013, which means that although they have this socio-market model, this does not mean that they have a significantly lower share of taxes in GDP. Absolutely not! It means that they actually have a slightly higher but otherwise established relationship, perhaps more stimulating in certain elements. This is precisely why such matters cannot be done at night as far as reform is concerned, because it is necessary to look at what matters exist where they already exist, what works, what doesn't work, and what works abroad, and could work with us. Because, hand to heart, with certain things we're Slovenians, after all, we're kind of special. It was said, yes, lower taxes, consumption will rise. The Slovenians in this are actually a little bit specific, because we relatively much put in socks, into banks, wherever they are. We're just saving more money than the others. In some consumer companies, it would probably be more short-term, which is said to exist, but in Slovenia, the short-term impact on consumption would be lower than in some other countries. We are as we are; we may be a little more afraid, we are a little smaller, a little more conservative, etc. And save a lot of money. This is also confirmed by statistics. So I would also like a very short session, given that we have a lot of them, as far as we're concerned, but now we've gone up the competitiveness ladder for eleven cities, given that we've finally called here to go, I think, a little bit down in the past years, so that might still be a bit of an exposure. If we move on now. One thing happened here several times. Before I was in politics, I was either in entrepreneurship or, as it is called, in the economy, and I remember NSI, who often said that he had left Slovenia for bureaucracy because he had waited more than a year to agree on a permit to build a hall. Now you have to think a little bit about it, you've been repeating this phrase since 2011. He said that, I think it was spring 2011. Then it was said that in autumn 2011 he would start building there across the border. I'm driving from Kopra to Nova Gorica because I have a nonstop home for the elderly, and I look at that airport every now and then, how far this hall is going. Ten. Seven. 2014 the building of the hall finally started. And it was said, they're waiting for us with their hands open, they're going to give us a building permit right now, there's no red tape, there's all those who live by the border, and we know about how Italy works, and we know that there's a lot of entrepreneurs running to Slovenia, because if anyone knows what bureaucracy is, they know it's Italians. [[…]] Now they're doing certain reforms, but Renzi's doing it on a higher political level, which they're taking to some, I think, smart direction. But as far as bureaucracy is concerned, if anyone wants to meet with bureaucracy and learn something, I think he can go to Italy to look at it a little, because in Slovenia, I think we are still better as far as this is concerned. So yes. 14. 1st I follow the news, finishes, 14. 1. 2016, finishes the factory in Italy, will start in spring. From 2011 to today, I think Slovenia will also move. But it wasn't the only move. After all, that's not true. It's a certain license that if you produce, you can sell it to the United States. There are other reasons, I think, but as an entrepreneur, he has every legitimate right to make a decision, he has received quite a few subsidies from the state budget, so that entrepreneurship and innovation are stimulated, it has been millions of euros, but in the end, he has decided as he has decided, and I hope that he is doing well or that he will succeed. Because in the end, even those who drive across the border from Slovenia are likely to work there, they will have some of this. As you know, in Italy, as far as wages are concerned, the labour force is much more favourable to be there – it is not, because you probably have not heard anyone go to Italy to work to complain about getting a ticket at the end of the day as it is happening. Sort of. For example, those working in Austria. Why? Because there are higher tax rates and there is no need to pay in Slovenia because you have already paid so much in Italy. This is also true of employment. So these things, the relationship, what's good about us, what's bad about us, we still need to have a little bit of it in mind, get a little bit deeper about it and figure out what's wrong. What's bad about us isn't enough of these things, we need to fix them, which is good for us, we need to try to keep them. So that's what it's worth to have in mind. Then let's go. One thing that may have disturbed me a little bit: this increase in employment at the time of tax cuts. We have in the area of social contributions, namely, health, pension and so on, we have a structural deficit. The structural deficit is that deficit you're left with, no matter where you're in the cycle. Which means that if we had full employment, we'd still have a minus; which means it's a structural problem. That's not the problem that you solve with this-- let's just say you're actually going to solve it by making more people work. He'll get away with it, but at the same time, when social contributions went down, you didn't cut the hole, you didn't cut it. It is true, however, that we would do better on certain items in our budgets, and I agree that we must all work to raise employment. I think that work is being done in this area, including from the budget, it is clear that certain transfers are intended to stimulate, increase employment, etc., which means that work, jobs are being created, and we hope everyone here – I think on both sides – that this employment will grow to that extent as soon as possible, that public finances will also become more sustainable; that there will be more investment, that there will be more for the police, that there will be more for the military, health and so on; for all who are working or working in this system or in this country. Then it was also said that those who pay taxes are always beaten, those who are not now so, we, as far as this is concerned, have taken some measures; some of them were tax collectors. [[…]] Tax registers are, as it were, one of the measures. They make it easier to control, to inform control, and so on, so that with fewer people on the Financial Board, or with such a number of people, more can be done. And that those who do not violate are in some way no longer tormented by checks, that they have time to take up their jobs, that they do not have time to do their work, because we do not know if they may or may not do something wrong, we should look at it and check it out in every way. With such receptions, informationisation in tax control, it is a good step not only for the country, but also for the debtors, that those in whom the vast majority of works are fair, that we do not actually deal with that large majority and they do not with the Tax Administration. For those who are making problems that are more risky, however, overcapacity can be directed at them. More than once, those who do not have registered activities are employed in black and so on. It was also intended to release part of the tax inspectors and other inspectors so that they could start dealing with them. On a daily basis. This is what we were missing — people on the ground. If we move forward as far as dynamic calculations are concerned. The models that were made are said to determine the impact of the reduction of taxes on what happens on GDP were, in principle, dynamic models. Well, the financial management doesn't use them at this point, they've made some calculations. However, at the final stage, even if we were to use dynamic models, we could not reach a significant variety of conclusions in this area. Because the dynamic model for my concepts can actually affect in a few percent, but it cannot substantially change some of the basic findings that were made on the basis of the calculations of the Ministry of Finance – those that I think Luke mentioned earlier that they were doing their job, we also made some of our own and we reached out to there the figures. So it's not something that would fall from somewhere, but it's some logic about how things work. If I end up with all this together, no, actually, we still have a little bit more time, so I'm just gonna keep going, I see. [[…]] Where do we come from to see the social state shrinking, it was said. I think that if the level of contributions paid falls and certain rights are attached to the contributions, the direct consequence is that the social state is falling. That's one plus one is two, there's no higher mathematics here. You can't do that, even if you want to, you can't turn your head. It's not working. The fact that the economy is the backbone of everything, I think we all agree on what we are here. The economy generates added value and so on, the country is a service that has to deliver its services as optimally as possible – we are not the most optimal yet, which is also clear, but we are working on making it more optimal. Even when it was said — I think Margaret Thatcher was told — that the problem of socialism is when the money of others runs out. This problem is the same, regardless of the system, you also have it in capitalism. After the high tax evasion of foreign investors, in addition to the tax rates, depends on legal certainty, but if we go solely to the tax area, there is, of course, the stability and transparency of a tax system. Taxes are not the highest on this scale whether someone decides to invest in a country or not. They are there, they are important, they are, say, 5th or 7, I don't know where they are, but you have some other things that we have here in this country to sort out, but it is true that we can also improve the tax system at the same time. And that's what this is all about. That's it. As far as the paradox is concerned, lower taxes — less grey economy. I think we've heard this a number of times in this room that it's empirically proven that it's not true. So again, lower taxes don't mean less grey economy because it doesn't have this correlation. It doesn't exist. You can calculate it, but you don't get it. Almost, if I was so manipulative, I'd say it's the other way around. But on paper, if you do it so quickly, it does look like that, but it's not true that if a country has low tax rates, it's usually also bad regulation, bad control and so on, and then it's a reason to grow a gray economy, even though it has extremely low taxes. As far as these departures are concerned, as has been said. I've been looking at this data in 2014. Fourteen thousand 300 people have moved away. 13,000 800 of them have moved in. It is said that, given that we have a single European market and that we are working on the mobility of the labour force and everything is growing, the fact is that this will go up. However, it is important that there should be no greater difference between inflow and outflow. The difference is currently unknown. As some come to us, especially from the south and so on, as well as from our country come, I don't know about northern countries, and in time they may even come back, round up, share that knowledge with us, and so on, and will probably be able to make a creative contribution to this society and our GDP. Yeah, we don't have a business for bad guys like we said. The State must endeavour to ensure that companies also have a relatively good environment in relation to workers, it is said that they have paid maternity allowance, that they have some sick leave, that if there is more than one day in the hospital, that the country enters and helps to make workers as healthy as possible, as vital as possible, as long as they work, contribute to the added value of the company. It is said that these workers have in some way a single network, some social security, as far as they can be concerned, because they are somehow less concerned and more concerned with what they are doing, are said to be their own private life, on the one hand, and on the other hand that they are doing as much as possible to the society in which they are employed, or the country or wherever they are doing it. Now, somehow, I would end by saying that, as far as our SMC is concerned, we have already said in the introduction. Here are some certain differences in thinking that we have, which is normal, both between coalitions, and with opposition ones, and here we will have to look for some arrangements, as always, as in every democracy. But given that we are working closely together, regardless of what is happening in the media and how it is reported, at least as far as the National Assembly is concerned, I must say that this cooperation is solid, we are talking to each other, and I believe that we will bring these changes together to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone again. When we talk about tax reforms, however, it is possible to summarise some of the data that speak very clearly about the fact that capital taxation in Slovenia is very low. If we look at the structure or say economic impact, it's actually just a 3.7% tax on capital, while we're also dealing with labour taxation at 18, 19%, 17%; in short, there's a very high difference. I think we should really be looking here for solutions for the future, how, in fact, to take tax reform as fairly as possible, if we can call it that. Certainly, however, one of the key measures can be the expansion of the income classes and, above all, the middle class is also burdened and thus increases or allows employers to pay more than average wages because they will be taxed less due to these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government of Mags has the floor. Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Undoubtedly, the issue of burdening labour costs with public charges is a question that needs to be addressed and proposed solutions that will address those labour costs segments that are above average and that make the Slovenian business environment uncompetitively targeted. At the same time, however, it is necessary to offer a second side of how this reduction of burdens will affect rights, on the basis of which contributions are mainly accounted for. For this reason, the Government considers that this issue needs to be examined in its entirety, that we should all be asked about all the consequences that changing the burden of labour costs also brings to social security systems in that country. We want such a comprehensive debate and we want the National Assembly to discuss both elements of this system at the same time. I would like to focus on some more discussions in the last part of today's debate. Once again, the State budget provides additional revenue through transfer only to pension funds due to history when employers' contributions to pension protection have been reduced and have been replaced or have instead been taxed on paid salaries. Only transfers to those insured who are exempt from contributions due to the various legal provisions shall contribute to the health Treasury State budget. There is no general transfer to cover, as has been stated, losses to the health treasury from the state budget. As far as Christmas is concerned, I should like to point out that the cited provision of the Social Security Contributions Act has been repealed by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It is therefore not possible to supplement it in this law, but the content should be regulated in the law dealing with the matter if we are to agree that this content should be addressed. The tax debt was mentioned. Yes, the total tax debt to all four public finances amounts to around 400 billion, of which more than half of the debt recorded in insolvency proceedings is either bankruptcy or forced settlement procedures. The poor half is so-called active debt, but this is a debt that has been accumulated in 10 years. This is not income or income that you collect and then you have it every year. Therefore, it is not appropriate to link the gap with the payment of the tax debt. However, we absolutely agree that this is a matter that needs to be addressed with strict recovery through regular work and further reduced, as has been the trend in the last period. Another statement bothered me, or I would like to address it, that the state deserves, if it receives an employee, a Christmas or a prize at the end of the year. And the numbers were given, or even by earning a wage. The burden of labour costs consists of income which is the income of state and municipal budgets and contributions to pension and health allowance. From the minimum wage, income at the annual level is collected for a good EUR 100. The contributions to the pension and health allowance are those which reduce the essential net remuneration even to those who are paid only a minimum wage for their work. Because of the pension system we have, because we do not have individual accounts, but we do have an intergenerational solidarity system, these are the funds that finance today's pensions, so that those who work will come after him and finance his pension. And with this work, it also provides itself with health care through the health insurance system that we have agreed on. Finally, let me stress once again that we do not reject the debate on what is the appropriate form of decommissioning labour costs which are over-average burdened in Slovenia. However, this issue must also necessarily be linked to the rights arising from these burdens and to the burdens in other areas. We must not allow ourselves to have separate debates, share carrots on one side and leave it to the other to try to find adequate alternative resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the representative of the Magi's proposer. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u72	In this mandate, New Slovenia could make itself extremely comfortable in the role of the opposition party and only criticise what you would bring to Parliament. But no, we want to work in a different way, so we've come up with proposals that we want to solve the most pressing things that we all find problematic together. Months ago, Christmas was exposed in several cases to excessive taxation. We are solving this problem and proposing it in this law. In recent years, it has been said that, compared to other countries in Slovenia, work is above average, especially high contributions to social security. We also propose to solve this problem in a simple way, so that a certain part of the income is simply not contributed, and thereby raise the net minimum wage by 50 euros, but at the same time not to increase the gross minimum wage. Many countries around us know the development cap. They do, but they don't see it as a rich cap, but as a help to the middle layer, as a help to engineers. With us, it is a topic on which an ideological spear can be broken, in which a great deal of demagogies can be detected — but fine. We certainly do not weaken health services with proposals, because today health services do not depend on how much you pay for health care, but we are all entitled to equal health care, and we certainly do not destroy the social state. We are making more proposals to people, and I am interested because I have the feeling that the government coalition will reject this proposal today, which will bring about a government coalition. What will happen, and in what way will you solve the problems that we wanted to solve? I'll sit on my seat and watch what you're about to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. All the debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Just a heads-up, before you log in, I want to warn you to sign up for the debate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. If you wish to apply to the debate, you too will be the proposaler of the Magi Act. Matthew Tonin and the government representative, please also log in by pressing the microphone switch. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. The first one's got a word, a second, the system's a little off. [[…]] Mr. Joseph Horvath, if you please, we'll just start with a list from the duty room.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank everyone for the correct debate that you had the real intention of having a very important debate for this country in these five hours or a little less. I also thank the Secretary of State, who is an expert in this field, who welcomed this debate. If anyone expects the opposition party, which has 5 members, 2, 3 professional co-workers, maybe some outside friends and experts to write an ideal law, that none of the 90 will say that it is not assigned, that it is defective; then he is wrong. There is no proposal for a law that is absolutely correct, without error. He's not here. He's not from any government. Such excuses are bluffs, excuse me. We are working to relieve the real economy. The Slovenian economy, we know this from our field visits, has fantastic ideas. I strongly recommend that you follow our practice, every month a field visit, every month a visit to at least five companies. I strongly recommend that you stay close to people, too. And you'll see that they have products, they have new markets, but they can't expand. They don't hope to hire, because maybe even some bad worker, because in all the crowds of people, they're also bad, and we're bad, but I'm self-critical, and they can't forgive him, because the law is such that it protects rights rather than duty. These are the facts. And all of these are issues that are relevant and we need to solve them. And if we actually went a little bit to the — yes, even with a carrot — economy, not just with a stick, such as a tax box, which is really such a fiasco that I am also ashamed, which, of course, I voted against, is a fiasco; if we went a little towards the economy, we could say by the end of this term, I hope that 60 thousand new jobs will be done regularly. And now let's figure out how much this would come into the pension box, the health check, and so on. Let's just say 60 thousand times 500, average pay, times 12 months times 22.1%. You get, if I'm not mistaken, 240 million at the annual level. Here is the answer to the question, to the relevant question that she has asked us, raised by respectable colleague Marinka Levičar, a very friendly Member. Here are the questions. And, of course, secondly, optimisation, rationalisation of the public sector, the state sector. Where is the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia, where is Digital Slovenia? Okay, now I expect this cloud to bring something. I am counting on it to bring the financial effects that we have, which is also the result of, if I understand correctly, a visit by the President of the Government to the world-renowned ICT corporations. Those who have ever been in the economy also know that they are the only constants of change, optimization, optimization, rationalisation, rationalisation of the production process, cost reduction. And the same should always be the case with the Slovenian government; and every government – how to do as much as possible a country, as a rational country, of course the most expensive country in terms of the resources we have. We will never have two million employees as long as we are a doubting nation. But we can have them, as I said, 60,000 more; and this is not the minimum. Here is the problem, the problem is that the number of jobs with minimum wage increases. And the problem is that we have an increase in the number of pensioners who cannot survive with such low pensions; and the problem is that our pensions are actually falling. And to do the same as before and expect better results, Einstein's definition of insanity. And we Slovenians are a smart nation, aren't we?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that I have listened to a few discussions in the National Assembly that have nothing to do with the reality of this society. Tilna Christmas, I must say, I have listened when she speaks as a pure bureaucrat who has nothing to do with the real problem and the real situation in our society right now. To talk about numbers, if we compare all parameters, if they're true, it's a big question. Mr Tillen Bozič, you said that from our society, so many and so many people are moving out of Slovenia. It's true, but you didn't say that the most highly educated staff has moved out of our society. However, we are being moved by those who are mostly involved in social transfers, and you did not say that. Why do you set up information and deceive the public? I will also now give you a brief overview of the situation in our society when we talk about what Nova Slovenije has proposed. The law, which I also support, would definitely help reduce poverty in this society. And I will only read to you what the Movement of the New Millennium has written; that is, we have already talked about unemployment today, we have 110 488, 290 thousand people under the poverty threshold, 150 to 250 thousand registered alcoholics, over 4 thousand homeless, 290 suicides, 160 thousand recipients of the Red Cross, 54,000 recipients of social assistance, 410 thousand people at risk of social exclusion, 206,000 pensioners at the threshold of poverty, 48 thousand recipients of the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not enough alarming data, something needs to be fundamentally changed in this society – and immediately – immediately. Then let the devil take me. This government and this coalition have done absolutely nothing in this mandate to improve this situation. Let them tell me what kind of law it has brought to this national assembly in order to reduce the taxation of the real sector or economy. Tell me that. And now you are attacking the opposition because the coalition and the government are unable to propose important solutions, you are attacking the opposition, which is proposing appropriate solutions that would benefit those who could start employment. Those who received the minimum wage would also earn more than 50 euros net. And for those people who earn a minimum wage, 50 euros a year or a month is of exceptional importance. You don't think that's important and you're making fun of us in Parliament, a complete coalition. I don't understand Desus, I don't understand. I heard today, I got information, which was already publicly known to raise pensions by 0.7%. My mother, who has 450 euros in pension, gets 3.20 euros, something like that. Well, that's totally a joke. It's a complete mockery of people and pensioners. That you are not ashamed of those who sit here and propose such solutions and deceive Slovenian people, Slovenian citizens and citizens. Sir, that's not demagogies, that's facts. Tell me that's not true what I was saying. Please don't tell me that because it's true. You don't know what you're taking in Desus, what you're supporting, and what kind of solutions you're taking. Calculate what 0.7% is on 450 euros, and you'll see. Don't tell me that I'm not telling the truth, but I'm not letting anyone in this House do that because I'm telling the truth and exactly what's important and important is that I stress and say it. You know what you've done to make entrepreneurship and craftsmanship work in our society? Tax registers. What have you done on excise duties that could be reduced to make it easier for those who are also fuel-bound, entrepreneurs and craftsmen to survive, what have you done? Nothing. You didn't bring them down. You tried to stop the relief for development, but thank God you failed because the opposition and the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises opposed it. You also made a permanent VAT raise, from a smaller one, from 8.5 to 9.5; and a higher one, from 20 to 22%. And where did that money go, where that money goes, this 100 million, where that money goes? And what did you do? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u77	You're out of time. Thank you very much, Mr. Marian Pojbich. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u78	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am not angry, but I am afraid that earlier very sad, especially from this point of view, because there is an impression that in fact the coalition, especially the Modern Centre Party, is opposed to these proposals that we have prepared in New Slovenia, mainly from some insignificant political prestige. Finally, when at least in part of the opposition we follow your Prime Minister to seek solutions and bring solutions to the parliamentary procedure, those who are looking for solutions would really want these incentives to continue looking for solutions for a second reading. In this way, the debate has shown, above all, conceptual differences, I hope, not something else. I regret, however, that somehow there is no willingness to change or to think more thoroughly about Slovenia becoming a more competitive country. And on the one hand, we are Members of New Slovenia, who want to burden the Slovenian economy to make Slovenia a more competitive country. This law of ours would also be a great welcome to foreign companies to come to Slovenia and create jobs here. Then who's gonna do better? Slovenian citizens. And then on the other hand, unfortunately, after today's debate, I am afraid that it is a coalition that opposes all of this. You have so many comments on the proposal of New Slovenia, a few hours of discussion, but no proposal for solutions. A few months ago, your finance minister, Mr. Maramor, came with a proposal for tax reform; but where did this proposal end?Oh, my God! This proposal ended in the media hearing and Minister Marble was forced to withdraw this proposal; because the economists, excuse the expression, literally dispersed, spat on it. And thank God they did, because it wasn't a good suggestion, because it meant stagnation. As a result, our stagnation has led us to see more successful Slovenian economists, entrepreneurs or young people educated in the village. And we've heard that a hundred times today, but it's a good thing to hear it. For it is also up to us legislators to stop this trend of evicting successful, young, educated, from such and different professions to neighbouring, more competitive countries where they can develop their potential. Social slippers, as we have called the restriction on the payment of the lowest-paid contributions, respected colleagues and colleagues who are fighting for the social state only under quotations, while also enjoying the luxury weekends in Umag, Karigador, Daila and so on, this would amount to 50 euros more at the same time to pay the person who receives the lowest wage. What he would do with that money — he would spend it, he would spend it, he would stay with the country, he would turn. And we don't let that individual do that. Christmas, lower taxes. I don't know if you're really just in the National Assembly, and you don't go to your parliamentary offices and to local entrepreneurs in your environment; but entrepreneurs want to pay Christmas, but it's too taxed. She's too taxed, they can't, but they want to reward their employees. Let's give this opportunity, I don't see why we shouldn't give this opportunity to entrepreneurs to reward our employees, business owners, and workers to get that money and continue spending it. On the other hand, the social cap, which some call a rich hat; do not make a fool of people, but at the same time enjoy, I will say again, on weekends in Slovenia Istria. Ask yourself who's rich and who's not rich. If developmental engineers are rich, then God help us and let's end this demagogy. I would like to see more such discussions in the future and that this New Slovenia proposal could also be addressed in a second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, that somehow there is no understanding for those who receive good €550 or €315 to raise their minimum wage, and you argue that the contributions to their pension will be lower and that it is not known how pensions will be paid, I think it is extremely inappropriate. Last week we met on the subject of demography, where Mr Vasle from Umarje presented that he received pensions of between €100 and €400 of about 30 000 Slovenians and Slovenes, and between €400 and €700 of 200,000 Slovenians and Slovenes. And it will be necessary to consider how pensions will increase in the future, whether working hours will increase, or whether pensions will decrease. [[…]] Of course, this is also the task of the current coalition to decide on this, but, again, I would like to say, and I am also on the board, how many years will it take for those with minimum wage to achieve a normal pension. How many years – 60, 70, 100 years? The system's not real. These poor are already poor when they go to work; and they will be poor when they are retired. And I think you just don't solve problems. Apparently, the government coalition wants minimum wages to stay the way they are. And this is the message of today’s session — all the same, all the poor. Except for some dedicated persons in the public sector who have the opportunity to allocate their own permanent readiness allowances or can even charge travel costs twice. And we come to the state that the raven is hungry; that someone who receives such supplements is more than the height of a minimum wage, when he has the possibility that he can also double-count travel costs, does not believe the one who barely survives the month. He does not believe that such an individual who barely survives through the month would be extremely much worth 50 euros a month. Simply because these are some travel costs of EUR 33, what is this, and you get it by going somewhere. But whoever works for 550 euros doesn't have that option. He is tied to that job; thank God he has it, for he is grateful. But I don't understand that you don't understand that this is a measure to help the weak, and that at the same time it will be necessary to look for reserves for their pensions. They will have to be sought anyway because their salaries are already so low that they do not know at all what they can expect when they complete the conditions for retirement or full - time working conditions. To say – no, we can't give you, because then you won't have any pensions, it's like I said, a whole crow hungry doesn't believe. And to speak – we can't give you, because then we don't know how to give you anything else; they already have nothing. I find it extremely inappropriate for all those people who come to our offices, for all those with whom we live in an environment with such low wages, to give up some opportunity in a way that we have proved through calculations that it is sustainable, irresponsible, inhumane. From my point of view, it's mostly inhumane. I wonder many times because I myself have experienced what they have done wrong in life to receive such a low wage. Why me? I don't know if you've ever asked yourself that — why me? What have I done wrong in my life, what will I give to my children? 50 euros is the first step towards helping all of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u82	In today’s debate, it may not have been said how this bill was formed and who was fully aware of this law, who we met and who supported it. We started to address these problems and solve them somewhere in the middle of last year. We've been dealing with things for over six months because we wanted to make them as complete as possible, make them uncomplicated and simple. During all this time, we have met with representatives of employers, with representatives of workers, let's say the union. There was no organisation on the part of the employers' organisations that would oppose this law. It was supported by all employers’ organisations – from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Managers, the Association of Employers, etc. In meetings with the unions, some unions, led by Mr Struklje, were critical to the development cap, which I can understand; but they all supported Christmas. Therefore, at the conclusion of today's debate, I might say once again that this law is made up of three different parts. If you allow the parliamentary debate on the tax system in Slovenia, however, to continue to vote in favour today, then you will have the opportunity to actively participate in the second reading and to correct the law as you think it is better. So we can see where your solutions and your suggestions are. It's the easiest thing to say no. I said that I can also understand you that maybe two of these three proposals are not acceptable to you because of ideological, demagogic, public finances, whatever reasons you want; but today's common denominator was a Christmas tree – what we could fix and do more interesting for businesses, especially so that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would get most of this money on their own; not that most of this money would be cut off by the state. I hope that this law will go through the first sieve today, so you will not put the debate out today. If you are not completely 100% convinced of this law, at least you can abstain and help us, those who believe in this law to continue their course. Since I have just as much time, it seems reasonable to comment on another matter, and this is our pension system or pension system. When I walk through Slovenia, a lot of people ask me where my money is, which I spent 40 years paying into the pension system or which they ripped from my salary. I can tell anyone, unfortunately, that your money isn't here because we don't have, if you want, an American system where your money would be loaded somewhere and we could pay our rent or in pieces at the end of your career. But it goes to your pension money, same month for your pension. And that's why the relationship between those who work and those who are retired is so important. And if you want pensions to be able to be at some decent level, if you want there to be even enough money for pensions, then it is clear what is the most effective measure to protect pensioners. It is that we do everything that more people have to do, that more people who are employed actually pay for pensions. It's the only solution. We have come today with such measures to help new jobs, and we will see what the result of the vote will be tonight. But I thank everyone for today's active debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I forgot to give you my word. Today, the technique is a little off-limits. You're giving up? Okay. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on the management of forests in the grip of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. [[They're gone.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u84	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, the Secretary of State is on his way. The Proposal for a Law on Forest Management, owned by the Republic of Slovenia, was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food to be the working body of the Republic of Slovenia at its 13th meeting, on 13 January 2016 and at its first meeting, on 13 January 2016. On the proposal for a law, a general discussion was held at the 13th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 23 November 2015 under Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; on 7 December 2015, the Committee held a public presentation of the opinions aimed at obtaining the opinion and views of the expert and the general public on the proposed legal solutions. In accordance with Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the local communities. The National Assembly received three opinions, namely: Municipality of Ljubljana, Municipality of Lovrenc of Pohorje and Municipality of Kočevje, which do not oppose the proposal of the law and have made some specific proposals to each article. The proposed bill was tabled by the Joint Left Group, the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Ambassador Janko Weber and the SMC, Desus and SD. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, in an additional explanation of the written opinion, stressed that the amendments of the coalition follow their comments and improve the proposed text; however, the amendments do not remove all concerns. The Committee then took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The members of the committee also took note of the written comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Agricultural Forestry Chambers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Union of State Authorities and other institutions. Their representatives also explained at the meeting their comments, which went in the direction of not objecting to the proposal of the law, but their support for the bill is conditional on the law making it clear that the law will stipulate that the state company will deal solely with forestry, i.e. with regular supply of wood to the truck; and therefore it should not have its own wood processing. Furthermore, the state-owned enterprise should allow for the prior provision of refrigeration to foresters who have production in Slovenia; and ensure that the supply of wood is at least as good as it is now after the replacement of the forest management model, i.e. after June 2016. They also highlighted the problem of transferring public servants from the fund to society and pointed out that the proposal for a law does not address the further employment of thousands of 500 qualified foresters employed by current concessionaires. They therefore called on the government to adopt a business plan to preserve these jobs and to ensure that work in the forests continues to be carried out professionally and safely with qualified workers. A representative of the Court of Auditors also took part in the debate, which highlighted the financial implications of the law on the state budget in the work of the tasks to be financed under the draft law from the budget fund. The Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out that, according to the proposal of the Law, the Fund will still be committed to restoring forests in nature and to paying compensation for the inability to use forests returned in denationalisation procedures. In the debate, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups pointed out that the proposal does not fully follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the warnings of the Court of Auditors. It raises many concerns and brings only partial solutions that match only a narrow circle of individuals. The question was also raised as to why we need a new company at all, namely by giving the State guarantee for the loans that were leased, while the current mills still have 50 % of the untapped capacity, since the new company's tasks could be managed by the Fund under appropriate reorganisation. In accordance with the comments made in the discussion, the coalition parliamentary groups tabled an amendment whereby the company can rent loans, but with a guarantee to be issued on the basis of the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The reason for this was that the National Assembly would adopt a law on this. The amendment was adopted by the Committee. The broad debate also took place on Article 14. The amendment committee was not adopted by the SMC to the 14th Article of the SMC Group. After the discussion, the Committee adopted most of the amendments of the coalition groups and some of the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left and the SMC, and some of its amendments, as shown in the report of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 13th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u86	Hello, government representatives, minister and everyone else, colleagues and colleagues! After two months, this law is returned to the National Assembly. I must say, two months ago, we took some important steps where the debate followed. Today it is said that there will be no more debate. I will first limit myself to the amendment to Article 10 tabled by New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Here they fear unfair competition and somehow this article disturbs them because wood processing is not their goal. Somehow they stated that it would be best if this law remained in the process of getting wood from the forest to the truck and the end. Let the merchants take over here and then do what they want with this wood. So we could trade merchants again to go back to Austria, then we didn't actually do anything today. We've done more in here, then I'll say further, but what they're afraid of in this article. As we speak of the processing, we think, above all, that in this state-owned company we would also form the centres – of course, this is a later assumption – for those matters for the processing of timber of strategic importance for the country, Slovenia. We have in the past had different productions, production of plates, cellulose and so on, this should be returned; this is true production of panels that would be slightly different. The ones we would need to build wooden buildings that we are now importing from Austria, perhaps from somewhere else. This does not create new jobs. We either export the cold or have been exported to Austria, from Austria they have bought and imported semi-finished products and those simple people I have talked to recently in the countryside have said - but we do not understand that wood goes to Austria, they burn those remains from crust to scrape, they burn at home free of charge, and all the other semi-finished products sell very well back to Slovenia. This was just about trading. This is something that simple people understand, and I am pleased that we have brought this law to this national assembly and to the committees so far that I can say that in the first place we provide wood to those who are going to process it. And that's gotta be the first, we have over 300 sawdusters in Slovenia. Three hundred sawmills that can be cut out of these state forests by a million 200 thousand cubic metres, and there is no problem in fact to cut or convert into semi-manufactured products. Some will cut wood into sawn wood, add some value, others will make some simple products, others will dry wood, make semi-manufactured products, and the fourth will handle demanding products. And clearly, here's what it means to primarily provide wood to those who don't want wood to go abroad. We also need to be aware that we need to increase consumption at home, that is to say that more wood is embedded either in wooden houses or in wooden houses. If we are to build in the next period, much is invested in tourism, we will have to build completely new buildings based on wood. Wood objects, which would be something special in Slovenia, some speciality in tourism, would then certainly be known, some movement and breakage in the wood industry, because the consumption of wood would increase here. When I mentioned those half-breeds, the pulp, and then I thought wood wool, we have to be aware that in the tree we have, the first log is the best, there's no problem at all, that's what anyone would like to sell, the outsiders are very interesting and they'd take it right away. [[…]] The second and third logs can surely be well squeezed and produced in the wood industry. The fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the higher we go to the top, the coolers are of poor quality. And I have to say from practical experience and conversations with others, there's a lot of this wood left in the woods, so it's rotten, or some people have burned it. The purpose of this is to make it into products. And like I said, there are worse qualities than the fourth, fifth, sixth, which are up against the top. And that's the one for cellulose, for plates and also for wood wool. And this will by no means be unfair competition for the rest of the wood industry. In the first place we will give wood to the sawmills, in the second place we will try to build in these centres over the next period, this is all in bandages, such centres that will be useful and strategic for the wood industry in Slovenia. I do not support the amendment to Article 10 for those reasons. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, all members of the Ministry of Agriculture! In Novi Slovenije we have re- tabled an amendment to Article 10, otherwise it is somewhat different, but it still follows that the state or state-owned company would not establish its own timber processing plants, sawmills, because this would, in the view of the Chamber of Commerce and Timber Processing Associations, constitute unfair competition for existing sawmills in Slovenia. Since a survey has been carried out on how much free capacity these cockroaches have, that is 50 % of the capacity to be free, it seems to me that it makes sense, first of all, to allow, under the same conditions, those capacities already installed, which do not require either the State guarantee or any other incentive, to be filled. Only then can you see the capacity. And we have in our heads what we can do, and we have no space, no centers, and I don't know what else. And now they would do this to me, but now, whether the mandate will last to the end so that knowledge can be transferred or not; I think this is all set on the May soil. This is where I have to replicate my colleague Škodnik. There is a need to increase consumption at home. Or did we not just 20 minutes ago talk about how consumption will increase and there is no understanding in this area? What will increase consumption at home?Oh, my God! With minimum wage? With 515 euros or 313, which is below the minimum wage? This is impossible to raise domestic consumption in this way. Now who's going to correct domestic consumption? Is the state going to correct it? We already have this – Pekko Tržič. Will the market tell what will happen in the wood sector, the wood processing industry. I've spoken to quite a few entrepreneurs and they don't mind if the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology allows them some financial means to develop themselves and have a market. And we, as a state or as a ministry, should take advantage of this, because people working in the wood industry who actually engage internationally and have the knowledge that they can easily bring in and, with their own resources, launch another programme in their own production. Our amendment is moving in the direction of first helping existing ones to enable them to develop. Of course, we are in a social market economy and the state has the tasks of providing citizens with security, good service to citizens, including red tape, to reduce this in order to allow them social security, including health care. That the state is either to process their timber or make shoes or make phones; I do not think that this is a service for the citizens. We are in a social market economy where competition prevails. However, if the state enters the area of wood processing, then it becomes unfair competition, illegal state aid and we are in some vicious circle as we know it at Elan's. And to embark on this area without some clear vision, without some clear plan, I find it very irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u90	Dear President, Honourable Minister and representative of the Ministry of the Economy, welcome to all! I will repeat my repeated debate that I am very pleased with every debate in Parliament on economic issues. Well, today is also such a point on the agenda and I will gladly comment on some matters, including the amendment of New Slovenia. If I look even a little bit at the previous point that we listened to, I think we in Slovenia are artists in discussing how to share something and argue about who will get more from some budget cake. Of course, we are digging in the back of projects and ideas that bring some added value, the nobility of our natural wealth, whether it's water, wood or something else. And I am pleased that today I have the opportunity to speak on this very subject and to publicly support the very good project and the law that has been drafted jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Economy. Why am I stressing this in particular? Over the past 20 years, we have had a certain inefficient organisation here that has literally generated the degradation of the forest and forest chains that we had before. Over 50,000 employees have been employed in this business, and in the last 20 years this number has dropped to 10,000. And even more important, direct economic damage, direct and indirect, from this heading amounts to 8.8 billion. This, of course, means one annual budget and I do not imagine that anyone in Parliament could oppose a project or a law that establishes a new environment that will allow for the establishment of a previous situation. This means that all this damage gradually decreases over a period of ten years and that we increase the number of employees, we create some added value in our natural wealth. From this point of view, I would like to object in some way and also oppose this amendment, because in fact it does not go into the concept of a forest-forest chain connection, because it in some way restricts the development of this forest-forest chain in the design of some centres that would convert wood into products of higher added value. Here again, let me explain that there is no competition for existing plants and I demand that all these companies are normally provided. Of course, we also have to show decisively and visually that the product in the wood industry is not just a board, the product can be a product, as the colleague mentioned, wood wool. And this is where it's about processing that wood that's now the biggest item in exports. For every year we export about 3 million cubic pounds of wood, of which one million are of quality, and there is also something that we could use in this forest and forest chain. In any way, I would pledge to keep the formulation in law as it is; and to make it possible in law to supply existing capacities, and we should not limit business initiatives, entrepreneurship and Slovenian innovation in any way. I may cariculate a little bit to make this measure as pointless as if, in the oil field in the Arab Emirates, they were banning the construction of refineries, or in the case of Drava power plants, where this water is literally flowing, it is generating some electricity to say that we must not build there now. I also respect some of the opposition's concerns, but I would like to justify in some way that this amendment is unnecessary and that the basic wording of the law is in the direction of establishing a forest-forest chain and also of supplying all existing capacities as well as opportunities for the development of new installations and new opportunities for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to the government team under the leadership of the minister and, of course, to colleagues and colleagues! On this subject, I must say that wood is one of the rare things Slovenia has as its natural wealth. And that was the basic starting point that we are talking about in this law. And since we don't have oil, we have good water, we have labor, we have wood, and then it's almost stopped. And that's why we have to worry, of course. The current arrangement — no one has been in this room so far, at least I have not heard it, which would say that the arrangements so far have been good. This arrangement was poor, and the fact was that some even used the term “forests prey. ” But the profit of this looting went mainly to private pockets, if I may say so, to concessionaires and, of course, to those who organized it. So there was no doubt that something had to be done. The Ministry of Agriculture, Economy and Food has drawn up a proposal for a law that we are talking about today, touching state forests, i.e. good 18% of Slovenian forests. So more than 80% of the forest is regulated by other laws. This is only about state property. This proposal, as made by the Ministry, was then coordinated within the coalition and came to the government in a coordinated manner and the Government adopted the proposal. But the point was that Desus insisted on certain points. I think Desus at this point has really worked hard or engaged, as we call it. Something has been taken into account, something not; but we insisted that the Snowman must be an integral part of this state-owned company as that working organisation that is already working in this area. We talked about the headquarters of this organization, and we said about the seat that it would not be stipulated by law, we'll settle it later. And at the last moment, the question arose as to who is responsible for the operation of this law or to whom it would belong, this property over the forests or the company as a whole. And here was the position, so it was written in the bill that the government is responsible directly for this property. Then there were some misunderstandings that were causing public controversy. First of all, colleague Janko Weber suggested that the centre of this company should go to some location of a barracks in Kočev, then our colleague Levičar had to react to the amendment to be the seat of the Kočevje Municipality, as was the decision of the Kočevje Municipal Council. Another misunderstanding, however, was with some members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u93	Dear Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u95	We are talking about Article 10 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. The predecessor got a little out of it, too, but I thought I'd let you tell me about this amendment. But now it seems to me that you are merely presenting a report or position of the Group of Members. I ask you kindly to define yourself as Article 10 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. No offense.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u96	Dear colleague. This practice has been completely overtaken by us in this mandate and there are countless discussions at second reading, we are now discussing the rules of procedure in order to put them back into effect. I agree with this, but because this practice is what it is; and that I am not the only one, and I also know that I will not be the only one to discuss it this way, but I will say mine. Because I didn't put this way in, but I just accepted this practice, and today I'm just counting on it. But I'll be very brief, if you don't mind, three more sentences. There was a misunderstanding with the Modern Centre Party, which proposed that this company be owned by SDH a week before the committee discussion. This is where we had this misunderstanding. I think we solved it. In the vote, we simply adopted the variant proposed by the Government or the Ministry. The government is the one who is directly responsible; for a simple reason, I must be clear here because SDH has generally sold, but not fixed, individual companies. And the danger of SDH working commercially with the forest as a natural commodity, not as we think it should be in the forest-forest chain system, so that we can do a lot of damage here. In the end, it's just this sentence. I have been told that I am trying to keep this company under the government's authority for a simple reason that we are regulating Desus for a job that is supposed to follow. I have to make it very clear that I am not a lumberjack and I have no connection with forestry and Desus has no great desire at this point. However, we are only convinced that the government that will form the majority of the supervisory board will be four ministers, four different government departments, that this is a greater guarantee that this company will work well and solidly; by adding in the last debate to the committee also a representative of the opposition, which practically the Slovenian Democratic Party has also agreed to the whole law if I can interpret freely; and by having representatives of workers on this supervisory committee, which guarantees us that this company will work well. Thank you very much and I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 10 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors? I can see one hand so far. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u98	All those who follow this debate! We will certainly support this amendment in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament, and some of the other amendments proposed are good. It is a matter of striving for transparency, striving for an open market and striving not to establish monopolies in this area. The purpose of this marriage is to preserve the wood as our wealth. The proposed amendment seeks to keep as many jobs as possible and not to give in to three issues: that cheap labour is coming to our market, that an informal economy is created and that what we already have is somehow preserved. With regard to the comprehensive comment, however, it is only so much that, with regard to the time available, we estimate that the previous solution has been poor; but this solution quickly does not bring about improvements and poses a lot of corruption risks. I hope that at least a few amendments, if adopted, will limit these corruption risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In view of the amendment to Article 10 that has been tabled, I would like to point out the difference between what is written in the current text of the second reading law and what changes the amendment. The amendment is intended to suspend the additional activity of the new company concerning the processing of timber. The warning, on the one hand, is extremely weighty and also comprehensible. It would be pointless for this company to establish and organise wood processing where this processing already exists. There would be indeed unnecessary duplication of activities, costs, which must certainly not be in the interest of a state-owned undertaking, but certainly not in the interest of a private one to interfere with the market. However, there are very few such cases in Slovenia where this could happen. The applicant himself speaks of the fact that even the capacities of existing saws in Slovenia are not used in private property. So this potential is available, and if this option is activated to organise processing through this company, it makes sense only where there is no private interest; otherwise, I also estimate that this is absolutely unnecessary. At the same time, I would also like to point out that the country already has a state-owned company within which processing is organised. This system is already functioning and there is so much less need for a real business perspective. However, I can also say that this company has the same conditions as all other companies and does not give up on how it receives raw material from others who, say, also operate with the Fund. What I want to point out and what I think is, at least in my opinion, the reason I will not support this amendment is because, according to my information, it will, or even is, to sell Cellulose in Krk. So it is a matter of wood processing, and if in Slovenia it is not an interest of the private to go to the purchase of this facility, it seems to me that it is extremely reasonable and necessary for the country to react and enter this wood chain in a way that buys from a foreign investor who, by the way, has become the owner of Cellulose in Kršek, that share and remains the processing of wood in Slovenia. Cellulose is one of those activities where you can largely make it possible for less-quality wood to get higher added value. And of course, all of this remains at home and also new jobs and a lot of this can be developed further. So there are cases in Slovenia where it makes sense to react if there is no private interest. If we exclude this from the law, this company cannot carry out this engagement. It is precisely because of such cases that I think it is right that we do not change the texts of the law; therefore, I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of the introduction; we and Mr Dejan jeedan understand each other extremely well, we are kind of a kinsman, but if we ever have different political views, it doesn't bother us. I am not saying this because of an apology for defending our amendment; perhaps because of explaining that someone would not have misunderstood that it was personal accounts. God forbid, we only live a few years on this earth. Of course, we thought very carefully about New Slovenia when we wrote the amendment to Article 10; we are not alone. You can tell what this Member of the Horvat is going to be in seat number 90, in the back seat, and we can scan him. You can, you can, you have all the freedom, we live in a free country. But here is the Court of Auditors and, above all, this has encouraged us to make further efforts and explain the following: If the company of Slovenian National Forests will establish new, own wood processing plants, sawdust and the like, this will, in our opinion, constitute unfair competition for existing sawmills and other establishments. We believe that the company that owns and manages state forests will have different – clearly better – conditions for the purchase of raw materials, since it will also be the owner of wood mass and the processor of the wood mass. And on the basis of a survey carried out by the Section of Woodworks at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Slovenian sawmills have about 50% of the free capacity. Colleagues and colleagues, we are in the European Union. Perhaps someone has information that the European Union will fall apart on 1 July, perhaps. And then everything will be a little more Balkan than it used to be. However, as far as the European acquis is concerned, this is extremely rigorous when it comes to market freedom when it comes to market legality. I apologize, I must once again show the programme of New Slovenia and Christian democratic economic policy: the social market economy and three values, justice, freedom – freedom of the market, of course – and security. You can laugh, you can laugh, you can laugh anything, you can enjoy some nostalgia and so on. I do not want to go to this level, but we are deeply concerned about the Court of Auditors' opinion and European legislation. The Court of Auditors shall, as it is said, interfere with Article 10. The Court of Auditors stumbled at Article 10, and at the same time at the same time, not only in the case of a few articles, but also in the case of another. And if you respect this country, then you must respect the institutions of this country. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is the institution of this country. You can change the composition, probably before the term, anyway, but that's not the topic of Article 10 or the amendment. The Court of Auditors objects to Article 10 of the Proposal for a Law on the Management of State Forests, which refers in particular to the establishment of forest and forest chains with high added value during the activities of the Slovenian State Forests d.o.o., in particular. However, it is not clear what the term high added value means. Will the state-owned company buy out existing companies' equity shares in the forest and forestry sector? Is there going to be a new company? You don't know that. He'll just process wood and sell wood products, he asks the Court of Auditors. The law also provides that the forest chain company will be able to rent up to EUR 20 million of credit with the State guarantee. You will vote for this guarantee, the Guarantee Act will come to the National Assembly and you will press the "yes" button for this guarantee; for 20 million you will not know where the money will go. I don't know that much about the Court of Auditors Act, but the Court of Auditors will have to draw here manually on official duty. But you're probably going to fuck the Court of Auditors' opinion, and you're going to say - Ma, this is a toothless tiger. Really?Oh, my God! However, since the concept of the establishment of forest-forest chains is not precisely defined, it is not clear whether the purpose of the loan for which the State will issue the guarantee is clear. You'll vote yes. So we could talk in advance about the blank guarantee, which the Court of Auditors clearly warns about. The State intends to provide EUR 20 million of money for the start-up of the Slovenian State Forests company; however, the explanation of the proposed law indicates that the company will need EUR 35.3 million for its operations, investments in six wood storage facilities, business premises, purchase of computer equipment and machinery for working in the forest, and for its turnover. The capital to finance all these investments is too low, they find in the Court of Auditors, the capital is too low. They also wonder whether it is appropriate that the company purchases machines and equipment for machine cutting, and invests money in saws. Would it not be better to hire such services under public procurement procedures? It's really a little national that the state buys machines, motor saws. Is this mission of our country of the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues? I'm not really sure, I'm not a constitutional lawyer, but I'm not really sure. I understand the mission of the State as something else. And with this law, you are actually brutally encroaching on the market, on the free market. You will be disfigured by a private initiative because these sawmills and other companies are also or are primarily privately owned. Here we have a problem. And this is also a school case of state aid. This is where the European Commission will come in. Let's get this straight before we get angry again that the plague of God came from Brussels. And very interesting thinking about this state-owned enterprise is also the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Forests, Mr. Damjan Orazem, who is particularly concerned about the slow process of changing the state forest management system, as the new company will have to be operational – when? – 1 July 2016 And then this state-owned company, as this director says, needs a trained, very heated athlete who will be a good starter and also a successful finisher. So we have two issues, now I summarize, which very much disturbs us at Article 10. Firstly, the brutal intervention of the State into market freedom and, secondly, of course, unlawful State aid will occur if the National Assembly votes in favour of the Guarantee Act. We don't know where 20 million will go. This will be illegal state aid, which does not go within the framework of state aid, as defined by the European Union, and thus our legal order. And that is why it is perfectly normal for me, as the authors of this amendment, to support this amendment. Think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is given by the representative of the Government, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting to all! I'll be very brief, just maybe as an explanation. In particular, in order to minimise the risks of natural wealth, the Government or the Ministry of Law sent the Court of Auditors early in the preventive review. The Court of Auditors responded, showed where the risks were; and therefore there were so many amendments to address the risks. Part of this is also what is essential – a vice that was not defined in the first version of the law. It was also given in advance, only the signing of the Minister of Finance was needed, it goes back to the National Assembly and also the definition of why it might be necessary is written. Actually, I don't see the risk here anymore. And here's what I'd like to point out. I think we have repeatedly said that in no case with this society, which we will establish, if it is your will, we do not want and will not compete with Slovenian saws and we will not compete with the Slovenian forest and forest chain, which already exists. That was wrong, that's not the point of this law. The point is to get them the quantities. But it is inside the fuse and this fuse is the one if it shows the need to find a different solution with some kind of forest waste or whatever, for which there is no other solution in Slovenia and there is no solution, then another solution can be sought. But as is now suggested, the solution is again sought through the National Assembly. And in my opinion, the risk is significantly reduced. Be careful, honourable Members, we had a very thorough debate on this law in the State Council, where representatives of the economy, representatives of employers and everyone else participated. And there were doubts, at the end of the debate, the State Council upheld the law from 21 to 7. I think that's a good sign. True, this law is essentially what it is, because it was coordination. I think it is better after coordination than it was before; however, there are risks to which the Court of Auditors points. Once again, I would like to say this, the Court of Auditors asked us in advance to alert us to the risks that we are also responding properly to the risks. And I think that, to a large extent, we have responded well to the risks we have been warned about in this draft law. Speaking of which, they did not teach the Sectional Service of the National Assembly that it is possible now to ask, if it is your will, that the third consideration of this law be realized at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss Article 10 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 10a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u106	Have a nice hello to everyone again! I will return to the forest-forest chain and then to the amendment to article 10. I would just say that the law was first proposed by the Social Democrats, and later we were somehow involved by all, I can say, the whole coalition and the government. And this bill was, in the first place, somehow shown by the model of Austria – wood harvesting, forest cultivation, work in the forest and harvesting to the forest roads, to the logs. But since we then came to realize that now is an opportunity after twenty years, when concessions somehow cease, to do something to break the wood industry in Slovenia, we have worked together to complete this law with additional articles or whatever, meaning that we have set up this forest-forest chain. I think we should have come to this, because if we hadn't come to the forest-forest chain that we've set up this law, we would have done nothing, because we know that we would only trade wood back in Austria. But we all know and all of us, when we discuss from the outside, say that this must end, the wood must no longer go beyond the border; because it did not just go to Austria, it also went to Croatia and Italy. But if it's those people from the countryside, because we have to be aware that the forests are in the countryside; they're not in the big cities. We always say that rural development needs to be supported. And now I ask you, my dears from the opposition, my colleagues, that you also say here that you are cooperating because many times you have said that we must do something for the countryside, that something must be done for the hill farmer. In this law, however, a hill farmer has an additional possibility of being included in the bar. We say many times that these farmers have lost some things due to the loss of milk quotas. Many things are here, but the most important thing is that in the next ten years, we may be able to gain new jobs. We know that we have lost more than 30,000 jobs in the last 20 and more years. That's not so small. I believe that we can obtain at least 20,000 jobs in the next ten, fifteen years by working together. This is also the goal of these chains. I will return to the amendment to Article 10a proposed by the United Left. They want the first paragraph of this Article deleted. Of course, we don't support that. This Article 1 reads as follows: The total amount of the guarantee obligations from the credits employed shall cover the principal refund of up to EUR 20 million with the corresponding interest, the rent costs and the realisation of the credit. I am pleased that the state has finally realized that it is necessary to help break the forest-forest chain or that it is necessary to provide assistance to all those who are trying to return the name of the wood industry that it once had. In Austria everything is worth it, although in Austria the price of labour is almost twice as high as in Slovenia, it is worth it. But with us, it's not worth it. There's been a lot of rumors that the state has to help. With these guarantees, I am sure that the country has listened and I agree and support this. Why? If these are state forests, why shouldn't they be state-owned? I don't understand when some people say other things. Clearly, we have private companies. But it would be weirder to have private companies run state forests. That would be weirder. It is far more logical and natural to have a state-owned company with state forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. He's got Dr. McKinley on trial. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am somewhat dismayed to observe the situation in this Parliament after the new year. Sometimes I wonder what we ate. On the government's side, what I was talking about, right here. In order not to be too long, the debate on the amendments is taking place and I would really like, President, to focus this debate a little bit, because otherwise we are making fools of ourselves, under A. Under B, it is a very important subject to be dealt with in this way. Under C, in the United Left we took this seriously and the amendments will be explained by a colleague and partly by me. But please lead the meeting by focusing. But I'll say we have a problem here that, I can say, cooked by the SDS. This meeting should be chaired by the Vice-President or the Vice-President of the opposition, and unfortunately we do not have it, particularly in the light of the situation of the coalition around this story. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much, dr. Franz Ducky. The next one has the word mag. Dušan Verbich. I very much ask that we really stick to these amendments, now that we are on the amendment to the 10th member of the Group of Ambassadors, we are the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. There's no minister. Minister's team, welcome! Messengers and Members! Even though a procedural proposal has been made, I will allow myself to do so, because I believe I have the same right as the predecessors, so that I can get a little off my game. Porn. The fact is, Article 10a speaks of the guarantee. With the guarantee, the marriage undertakes, in contrast to creditors, that it will fulfil the debtor's valid and due obligation if it does not do so. From this definition, it is undeniable that it is still important who is the operator. And that is precisely why – I must admit that I speak for myself, that there will be no further confusion – the executive branch of power has been extremely poor in its management of natural wealth over the past 23 years. If I limit myself to the last years, I claim that in the exploitation of the forest and forest chain, all procedures have been carried out for the benefit of all participants, except for the benefit of the State. This case was brought before us by the Court of Auditors and the Member to my attention also drew attention to the importance of the Court of Auditors in the Republic of Slovenia. And due to a good understanding of this poor management of state assets over the past 23 years, the Court of Auditors found the following in 2012; it assessed that the control of the implementation of these works was poor and that the proportion of the illicit cuts represented a good quarter of the cut, although in state forests they carried out and supervised four state institutions, namely the Fund, the Forestry Institute, the Inspection and the Institute for Nature Protection; for two-thirds of the forests owned by the State are in the Natura 2000 area. Furthermore, the auditors of the Court of Auditors also calculated that if the Fund increased its concession contracts to 15 euros in 2009 from 5.82 euros to 5.82 euros, it would create 16 million at the annual level more. Earlier, in 2007 the Commission also assessed that the country had been harmed by around 18 million in terms of concession contracts per year. So much in support of my thesis, which I also highlighted on the home committee, that for two decades the administration of the executive branch of power with natural wealth - the forest was not primarily in the interest of the state. I therefore support the need to have a new approach, a real business model, so that management can somehow come to the Slovenian State holding company. However, as the so-called time loop is today in the National Assembly, I am aware of the importance of the content of the proposal for this law and of the fact to which the profession has also pointed. And this says that any change is better than the current state of government management. However, since I do not wish to act to the detriment of the State, I will not oppose the proposed law. However, I can say that it is precisely because of the importance of managing the company of the Slovenian National Forests and the direct impact of the policy on the recruitment and management of it that I am very reserved. I'm going back to the 10th. I can only repeat what I have also presented on the home committee in relation to this Article 10.a. It is both substantive and meaningful in terms of the legal basis for its implementation if the management of the company considers that this is necessary. I advocate the content of the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups on the parent committee. The amendment of the United Left, which is between us today, I reject. If I return to the guarantee, I think it is very important which form of guarantee will be carried out in this case. The profession defines two types of guarantee – a subsidiary and solidarity guarantee. I believe that it is precisely because of this great emphasis on the management body of this company that it is important only to manage it. In this case, a subsidiary guarantee should be entered in the Statute. This is also my reason, which I point out many times, that this kind of management of state property is to be carried out through SDH, because it is more likely that they will consistently implement the principles of corporate governance for the benefit of the owner; and this is the state. I am still in the guarantee; we must also be aware in policy that business operators on the market are doing business with their cash flow in a way that includes borrowed funds. As a rule, this also applies to Slovenian successful companies, so I will not speak a multinational. This, in particular, is due to the fact that many of the concerns expressed by opposition members were raised in the debate on the home working body, that the State guarantee was already a sign of similar problems and challenges that we faced in the case of TEM 6. I must admit that I strongly oppose this thinking, because I believe that the guarantee is given, in this case the Slovenian National Forest, a good passenger for the management of society; and nowhere does it oblige management to take advantage of it. This depends on the business plan and strategy to achieve the objectives of the Slovenian National Forests. So much for once, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not go back so far as to explain why concessions seemed to us a really bad solution and how many congregations had survived; even after twice as much at that time as the country. However, I would say that in the twenty years since the independence of Slovenia, the number of employees in this sector has decreased from about 40,000 to 11,000. At this very time in Austria, where we mostly exported our timber, jobs increased from 53 000 to 77 000 in this sector. We are, however, detained from the very beginning to the proposal of this law. Why? Since, six months before the end of concessions, the government had submitted a law which was only an improved version of what had already been dealt with in the National Assembly one year ago and was rejected. The law introduces a state-owned enterprise in the form of a d. o. o., which has already been shown in the past to be an ideal form of kidnapping. The neo-liberal ideology of non-interference in the economy has led to the fact that these state-owned state-owned enterprises receive money from the state budget and the millions of state-owned guarantees; in the end, they act as a state in the country and are totally untouchable. Similarly, the managers, through various advisory contracts, exhaust these companies and eventually, of course, completely exhausted, land in foreign hands. And that's what we're most afraid of. Certainly not, as Mr Škodnik says, that state forests should logically be in the administration of a state-owned enterprise. Nobody denies it, of course we have proposed amendments in the United Left to prevent money from leaking from these companies and to prevent the bad fate we have experienced in many Slovenian companies. Because if we lose the woods, then the devil has taken the joke. And I think we all work here in terms of good solutions. And let me return to our 10a Article, which lays down the conditions under which a newly established company can receive State guarantees. The conditions under which any state-owned company can already obtain a State guarantee are known. There must be a special law in the National Assembly. And first of all, let me remind you that in the original draft law, which was given for public consideration, there were no such special conditions at all. They were gone, and then they were added extra later during the government hearing. This is, in our view, a totally unacceptable derogation from the system of granting the guarantees that are in force. But that's so much more unreasonable if we believe the words of Minister Jew about what profit this company should be operating with. Because, look out, the country will spend 20 million Euros plus Sneznik to set up this company. And then the company will have an exclusive right to manage state forests that exceed 20% of all Slovenian forests. And if this company is really going to be such a business pearl, then it doesn't need state guarantees at all, it's going to be able to get credit with banks without these guarantees. We already have a number of state-owned companies, including the above-mentioned Snowman, who are very good at business and rent loans for their investments under normal conditions without State guarantees. And if this company really needs some State guarantees, it can only get them through established procedures, as is the case with all other companies. Therefore, despite the negative opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, why does the coalition still insist on these guarantees? And reducing the criteria and easing the procedures for obtaining guarantees is even more inappropriate if we take into account the experience in building TES6. Here Mr Verbič has previously stated that this depends on the business plan. Below you will hear – there is no business plan. And he's not here today. And it can't have anything to do with this business plan that doesn't exist. TŠ 6 was a very purposeful approval of the guarantee; the newly established Slovenian National Forest Company, d.o.o., will receive guarantees only by establishing or supplementing forest and forest chains. And these are very widely defined in marriage and can fall into this practically anything because it is in any relationship with wood. The representative of the Court of Auditors also pointed out this several times at the Committee’s meeting. It is said that you ignore the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Court of Auditors, which, of course, our amendment here takes into account. Here we are concerned about opening up opportunities for a new non-intentional lending of loans, with state guarantees. In addition, we need to draw attention once again to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which already mentioned in the public debate that the establishment of this company poses a significant financial risk to the country. Even more worrying is the fact that we know that the entire state investment plan in the newly established company covers only one side of the A4 format. Non-governmental organisations have requested a business plan on practically the same bill last year. Last year, even Member Zajc of SMC tied up his support for the law if a business plan is presented. But I can't get past the duality of the state here. Two years ago, the Ministry of Agriculture requested a business plan for the allocation of funds for the modernisation of agricultural holdings for investments exceeding EUR 50 000. Here, in its 20 million-dollar project, it calmly believes that there is no need for a business plan and that a short explanation is sufficient in a few paragraphs. The worst part is, they also want a blank menu to rent state guarantees. The coalition now assures us that the National Assembly will have a subsequent opportunity to decide on the guarantee, as this will be decided on, but this is not the same. The decision on consent shall be adopted on a one-phase basis, without public discussion. In addition, unlike the decision, the law should contain a detailed explanation of the reasons for the adoption of the law and, which is very important in guarantees, including an assessment of the financial risks to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. You see, that's not necessary at the conclusion. Therefore, in the United Left, we are very well-intentioned that it is imperative to delete Article 10a, which lays down specific conditions for obtaining guarantees. Of course, this does not mean that the Slovenian State Forests will not be able to rent credits, even through the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia; but all these guarantees must be subject to standards that apply to all other state-owned enterprises and to all other entities. There is no way that we can agree that even before one company is established, we receive financial leave for unknown reasons in advance. And this is where we can get our own doorknobs and get caught in our own trap. Therefore, I ask you to reconsider that this Article 10a is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u114	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Regardless of the fact that I had almost received a reminder before, I would have dared to have a little broader discussion on this subject. I think that Parliament, as such, is spending too little time on economic issues; but I will still follow your instructions. First, a few words on the subject of the guarantee and this amendment. Contrary to her colleague Tomić's position, I believe that this amendment is certainly acceptable and that the guarantee must remain in this law. Why? Because I come from experience in the industry and industry, where 8.8 billion damage has occurred in the last 20 years. The ministries and all state institutions did not recognise this great opportunity for Slovenia, the exploitation of this natural resource in industry such as the timber industry. However, I was particularly surprised by the fact that the Ministry of Finance made this proposal and was pleased to receive it from both ministers. Why not, if even Minister Marble decides to recognize his portfolio, in all our documents Smart Specialisation is the Les strategy is beautiful – a strategy on the development of the wood industry, that however this industry must be supported in some way. What does this 20 million euro mean to 8.8 billion, that is, in practice, change. In particular, I believe that the position of the Ministry of Finance was later made clear on the Committee that all the rules for drawing this guarantee are in accordance with the applicable legislation and regulations of the Republic of Slovenia. For these reasons, the concern of the opposition, in particular the United Left and also New Slovenia, is completely exaggerated. Of course, I would also expect a number of left-wing efforts for new jobs to take advantage of the opportunities of natural resources to consider this and withdraw this amendment on the deletion of the article. I think it's contrary to their basic orientation. It should be stressed that this modest guarantee will enable the development of the forest and forest chain in a fully transparent manner. Thus, there is no fear or danger that these funds will be used in a transparent manner. In particular, I would like to point out that it is an erroneous belief that the National Assembly or the Committee on Agriculture should consider the business plan and put itself in charge of this company. In particular, this is the task of the members of the Supervisory Board, who, with their responsibility and personal property, guarantee the approval of the business plan prepared by the Management Board. I think we're mixing politics and corporate governance here. The law merely clarifies the guidelines, this is a constitution, a new business opportunity for the establishment of a forest and forest chain; the management authorities in this new society are responsible and are also professionally qualified to prepare this business plan. However, I would like to explain that, despite this prepared business model for the Government, which it has also received, this document is here, and it has also assessed that it is a good enough business model for the later preparation of the business plan prepared by the management of the new company and approved by the Supervisory Board. In any way, I support this article, which defines the guarantee for this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I find that there are still wishes after the debate, so I ask for applications. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team! I'd like to say something about this law that's taken us so long. I would like to say that we are dealing with this law only with the good 18% of the forests we have in Slovenia, based on the fact that the management of these forests has been poor for the last 20 years or that the country has been under-recovered from these forests. However, we still have about 80% of the private-owned forests, which are owned by municipalities. In the state forests, even though the state did not get much out of it, it cut almost as much as it did. From this point of view, management was good. In private forests or others, especially in private forests, only half or less of what has grown. That's 70% of all forests. If the country were economically viable, it would also ensure that such or better management would be cut out of these forests, regardless of who owns it, who gains a certain income from these forests. This was not the case because one day it was prevented that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber would organise a forestry service for the management of these private forests; and thus private owners, where ownership is quite fragmented, since we have about 460,000 forest owners, the average area of good two hectares per owner. Of course, this has survived, and this has caused damage to the state or its citizens, but this would have been appropriate for someone, because cutting wood from private forests would have been a competition for wood cut from state forests. After this flow of ice exports to the neighbouring countries had been well-run and well-run, and had also brought enough to concessionaires, it remained so, but the damage to private forests was still being done. We have also seen this in the case of agglomerations, when there has been some sort of recovery in the state forests, but not in private forests. As a result, there has been an abnormal replication of the underlings, and the consequences will not be felt until the coming years. At the level of the country forest management – The Slovenian Forestry Institute, which has about 700 employees, of which about 400 foresters on the ground and 300 in the offices, was not good – was not good, professional work was not good, because the country should probably notice that forests are not well managed and then properly organised. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber is also financed by the state to the greatest extent, but only a few funds are obtained from farmers’ membership. And now we are in a situation where concession contracts are ending. The Forest Act is intended to recommence contracts for a period of ten years, but the government has come by law to establish a new company for the management of state forests. In my view, this is not necessary, as the Fund of Agricultural Lands has now been managed and could continue to do so with appropriate adaptation. Now this work is being taken away from the Fund and a new state-owned company is being established. In addition, the Agricultural Land Fund has other tasks from the past, with some 36 million commitments to mainly denationalisation beneficiaries, which it will have to settle in some way – or not. Once again, the state, the taxpayers, will have to cut into their pockets and settle these debts. This law is therefore also opposed by the Fund for Agricultural Lands, which is under the authority of the Government. And that's why I'm against this law because it doesn't solve another thing, what's already been mentioned today. If we were to have good forest management, if we were to have an organised forestry service at the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and this chamber would work well with its advisory service, for the benefit of all farmers, for every farmer, especially for those mountain farmers in the vicinity of which the country has its own forests, the advisory service would have to do some kind of program for the survival of these farmers. It would show that this farmer could only survive by managing the forests with his own; and if he could not survive, the country could grant him a concession for a few more forests to manage, perhaps even some complementary activity. This would create a new added value to help him survive; if there was more, it could also develop into an entrepreneur. We have some of these cases. However, because you're worried the country obviously doesn't want to see it, now we're going to set up a company that's going to give on average, tender some concessions, or put on the market a cut and a set-up where foreigners who are going to do this for the country can show up. Our farmers, to whom the subsidy has decreased significantly in this new agricultural policy, even by half, will not survive. And now I ask myself, is it the country, do we, Members of Parliament, care that we survive the countryside, that these farmers survive, that they endure and sustain this cultural landscape? I guess not. That someone may see only profit from the trees cut down and from the logs that they will drive across the border; for I see no other. Talking about this company taking care of the development of the wood-processing chain, I don't see it anywhere in this law. We have at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology a Directorate for Forestry, where if you read their tasks, that is exactly what it says. And that's in the second department. Now, in this ministry, we are making a loan guarantee that this ministry will perform some processing functions or set up a timber processing company, when we all know that we have about 20% of our stock capacity and 50% of our stock capacity. And I want to know what this $20 million is going to be for; if we have enough capacity for these two operations, then what are we going to open? Is it really wood wool as insulating material, or is this state-owned company going to make baby toys out of wood or, I don't know, wooden eggs and sell them?Oh, my God! And I don't know what else. Is this not unfair competition, as has already been said today, or illegal state aid?Oh, my God! I, in this law or in this material that we have been presented to the Members of Parliament, cannot understand that it is something you can see. It's gonna be something in advance, but it won't. This, I think we have enough Members. And if we're already going into the forest-forest chain or wood processing, why wouldn't that be the ministry where the directorate was set up and exactly what tasks were written for? I think the function of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Food to the Forest Road, Forest Management, Forest Management, is the responsibility of someone else, if the state must already have a hand on it. Therefore, I do not think that these guarantees are necessary for these 20 million to be married. A guarantee can be given by means of a law that Members will confirm when the company is established and if it has a programme or will show what it is supposed to do and accelerate this forest-forest chain where entrepreneurs cannot on the market if it is a solution. Whether we're going to set up a cellulose factory or not, I don't know what, some chipboards or something, which will add value. Then, in a case like this, no. I am sure that the Agricultural Land Fund could carry out this task further, with 100 employees. I do not know how these mountain farmers will then find true support for these farmers if the Agricultural Land Fund has agricultural land and forests with it. Perhaps even one plot that reaches — we have a plot of 270 hectares. What if it's on this lot, I don't know, half the grass, half the forest. One will be managed by the Agricultural Land Fund and the other will be managed by a state forest management company. However, the profession paid by the State is excluded, and this is the Agricultural Advisory Service, which is organised at the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. But this G - forestry, behind this name are only three foresters, for whom I wonder what they are doing if they have no tasks written in the part of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber; for if you are looking at it, it is not. Then why is that name, for the sake of beauty, because they have it in other countries?Oh, my God! And all of this shows that the state has misruled and that there is no real policy in place now. We have a metal law – the Law on Forests, where it is stipulated that concessions will expire at the time and at the time and will be re-signed for 10 years. And now the government flies in with this law, with some Solomonic solution, and how new things will be nice and right. Far from it. Once again, we are going to complicate a matter that will be even more difficult to solve because it will have to be solved. If the Swiss say that Switzerland is not such a rich country that damage is done in their forests and that it is well managed, Slovenia is obviously so rich that in 70% of all the forests we have, it can cut only half the wood that grows. That's a fact, and no one sees it. And when this state-owned company starts to work, they'll be bidding concessions for all the forests, including those of the hills, the mountains. On the other hand, one year from now, we will find that these farmers are abandoning all activities so that they cannot survive, moving to cities, to blocks; or relying on social support to live off this if they cannot survive. Nobody's looking at the whole thing, and that's why I'm against such a law, because no one's ever convinced me that it's in the direction of saving the forest management. I am talking about all the forests that are in Slovenia, which we now have more, once more than we had a hundred years ago. We lost 150,000 acres of agricultural land to produce food. What kind of self-care do we have? Did anyone here ask what those 460 thousand owners of private forests were thinking?Oh, my God! No one, nobody cares. We will raise the cadastral income and the state will get something; but if not enough, we will also be taxed on real estate, because it was also for forests, slightly raised, and private owners will simply say – because I have only loss and obligations with this forest and nothing from it; who takes it? Maybe some stranger will show up, and he'll give something for it. And we'll alienate the woods. In addition to the northern border vineyards already picked up by foreigners, we will sell the forests. And if you were sitting at the Austrian border, it would be so much easier. It's a shame we're getting so tired. Mr Verbič has described well how management has been so far; and I fully agree with this conclusion. We've heard a lot of them, but what we now have on the table is not a solution. He won't. First of all, we need to fix the Roof Forest Law, where we would put all the mountain farms under the roof and find a solution or at least guidance for those 460,000 private forest owners; because ours, in most cases ours, is also from Canada and Australia, and I don't know where else. I am sure that the Church, with its 6% of forests, gets more per year than the state with 18%. And then who is the good master?Oh, my God! And if 460,000 owners were such good masters as the Church or the congregation, how much added value would they create?Oh, my God! How much revenue would be on five, six million cubic pounds of cut wood per year, which could be cut; but not. Here let us ask ourselves what kind of masters we are over forests, which are the only natural wealth. And now we're exporting a lot. Members of the Committee on Agriculture from Vojvodina are working on how they will no longer export maize because they are the second largest exporter in Europe. In the case of the case, if you're exporting corn, it's the same as if you were exporting trumpets. For example, how we should not work; we do this only in our own home. They laughed at us and invited experts from the Netherlands to try to make more of this maize than to load it on wagons and sell it. With us, however, we can learn nothing from the Austrians, the neighbours who are the best masters, concerning wood processing and wood management; the first in Europe and probably also in the world. Only Caravans limit it, and on the other hand Karavank anarchy and wood falls in the woods. Let us ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, if we are in this House to deal with such a law that will bring nothing. Whether we will ask ourselves once again, we will start on the basis of solving things, that we will all have more in Slovenia and that we will not take credit so that we can have a minimum or EUR 400 pension for 40 years of hard work. If we don't create ourselves, others won't give it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u117	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, President. To everyone on the guarantee; I would like only to mention this; not every guarantee is given to be abused. It is true that many times, as far as the TES 6 guarantee is concerned, this is the problem of those who gave their consent in this national assembly. Article 10a, since honourable Member Tomić has commented in some way on these guarantees, the guarantee contract and so on. If we look at the second paragraph of Article 10a, paragraphs 1 to 10, it is very detailed and represents all the components necessary to issue the guarantee contract. And what is thought, at least by the proposer of this article, by the United Left, is superfluous, because in 11. the point means that the guarantee can only be issued when the consent of this National Assembly is given. This is said to be the case that the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, simply cannot enter into any legal relationship with the creditor without the consent of this National Assembly. Therefore, I think that any doubt or dilemma about what will be in this guarantee is superfluous, for this assembly will give its consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u119	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I do not believe that the amendment to Article 10a of the Joint Left Group is necessary because we have already resolved this issue on the Committee on Agriculture, when we also discussed the issue of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this debate opened up because of the Court of Auditors' position and because of the position of the Legislative and Legal Service and, of course, we have come up with solutions in which we have, in fact, insisted on Members. The Ministry of Finance was also in the position that it would be possible to provide guarantees without the consent of the National Assembly. We objected to this and, therefore, in the present 10a article, for which the United Left proposes to delete it, it is written: The Declaration shall be issued on the basis of the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The act adopted by the National Assembly when it gives its consent is the law. Therefore, on the basis of the law to be tabled, it will be possible to give an agreement on the guarantee for a specific matter which will also be dealt with in that law. It is also true that we have significantly improved the conditions under which the guarantee can be granted on the committee, so that we have followed all the warnings. That is why I am talking about the fact that the current amendment or deletion is not really necessary. Unless someone explicitly opposes the guarantee, even if it is awarded to the National Assembly on the basis of an adopted law granting consent. However, this guardian, which the National Assembly has in this case, is very important and has been reached on the Committee. I think it is right to maintain such a solution, because this keeps us in control of how resources will be used for what purposes. I think that at this point we can talk more about what has somehow been said by colleagues at previous points, what is still desired and can be achieved through prudent management of the resources available; also for the construction of wood centres and similar solutions needed to revive the wood-processing chain, which is largely destroyed in Slovenia and is certainly one of the biggest challenges for us right now, how to re-energize economic growth through the wood chain, how to provide additional jobs and how to create added value with our natural wealth, which we have in the form of wood. I will not support this amendment because, in my opinion, we have adequately resolved the issue of guarantee by giving the National Assembly an agreement on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u121	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! Today we are talking about an important law, a law that has already been covered with ink, a lot of speech in 2015. To begin with, at the end of last year, the delegation of the Austrian Parliament was present in our National Assembly, and representatives of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food were also present. In this discussion we also highlighted the issue of forests in the neighbouring country, that is Austria, and we also mentioned our problems in this area. Above all, we were interested in how they view their forests, how they look at wood, especially what they do with this wood growing in neighbouring Austria. After several questions and a longer discussion, the fact that this does not work for us mainly for two reasons, because there is no real economic logic because we are talking about the law on forests, often there is no healthy farmer here. I must admit that, as a Member and a member of the Committee on Agriculture at the beginning of this law, I was delighted because it is absolutely necessary because we have always found that these things are limping in several segments. In order to be more easily understood, it is very difficult to understand that someone cutting in the state forest pays 14 euros, and this same contractor cutting down a private company or some other company owned by the forest has to pay once more for this. That's when our economic logic doesn't work. When I first mentioned Austria. I am afraid that across the border, those who have been working in this area for a long time in the neighbouring country are strategically placing saws for cutting not only Austrian logs, but also Slovenian ones. That is why this law is so much more important. We know that there was a lot of cold going one way or another across the border on foreign saws. Also, this quality wood, which is certainly, I now speak as a non-expert, significantly more quality than in the neighbouring country, has gone for a very low price and in large quantities. Speaking of this law for a year now, we have been finding that we have been running out of time for the last month of June and that we are in a hurry. As a Member, I have been disturbed by the fact that we must have gone too politically at the very beginning. To avoid saying this, the evidence was at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which was two days old and it was seen that we had gone too politically into this law. The fact is that in Slovenia there is a lot of expertise that can work well in this area, which has known the problem of wood and forest in the Republic of Slovenia for many years. And he also knows the answers in this area for the future of the Slovenian forest, but it certainly was not close enough or trusted in this law. When marriage smells political, according to politics, it is often not good. I must mention, I have been positively surprised by everything through, the two Members, the largest coalition parties who have really been with the heart, with knowledge mainly in the past and the soul involved in this law all through and wherever we met, within Parliament or outside, spoke positively about this law, as well as positively in favour of the Slovenian forest, Slovenian wood, and in particular Slovenian products, which could be sold both in the Republic of Slovenia and beyond our borders. This last committee has shown that this desire, this heart, this self-sacrifice, that this marriage could be very good, has somehow waned. I would not be looking for a reason today, but, above all, as a Member, I have very serious concerns when we put money into the state law. Many institutions have been able to say this year that they do not need any money to have knowledge, expertise, machines, and many Slovenian forests. Of course, we must not only take into account state-owned forests, we must also take into account private-owned forests. These are all forests in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why every day I get a bigger question about why we give the money, especially the guarantee. This morning we talked about people in the Republic of Slovenia living with a minimum person, breaking through day after day, not to say from month to month, week after week, there was no listening, not even with a small handful. But when we talk about millions to put them in a state company, we don't have a strategy written down, which is much easier for Members and Members. I will oppose this law, which does not go to the good of the Slovenian forest, does not go to the good of the Slovenian wood, nor to the good of the Slovenian wood product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u123	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you, President for your word. Article 10a, deletion of article referring to the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm the one with the bail issues. I am also one of those who opposed or opposed all the guarantees for this unhappy TER 6 and probably some other law. Why? Because it seems to me that we are creating some unfair competition, if, of course, we are still living in some market capitalism, or if it is some state aid. Personally, I also have a problem because we are setting up a company where instead of burdening the country with jobs, responsibilities, we are lifting it up. And I have to say what fear in these days, weeks and months, when I feel that in all areas, ministers are just thinking about how they're going to set up a state-owned enterprise in some area, they're going to give a blank menu, in this case 20 million, and then in five years, the public should be interested in what next term of office of the National Assembly in five years' time and ask, where did we go, who was responsible, who was the boss of those companies, and where did that money go? Personally, I think this marriage will have a similar story. We don't even know where this company is going to be. For the last time, I have to say as an opposition Member, I admit, I enjoyed the debate on the committee when members of the coalition, to be forgiven, acted as defenders on the market, who would offer what and whom to be seated with him. I must say that since I am used to parliamentary democracy and I am also married, it is easier if two people change home and then tell you where they are going to sea. This time, however, they argued publicly where they would put the company's seat. And more. You didn't know how to make a deal, but today you're expecting a blank menu from the National Assembly. And, yes, it says, "Despite is issued on the basis of the consent of the National Assembly. But when I heard a debate between the SD and the SMC on this law, I am sure that at least in this mandate no guarantee will be issued because you will not be able to agree on who to give the guarantee to. More. As Mrs. Tomić earlier said – why a blank guarantee? Article 35 states that the Government shall adopt an act establishing the Act within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act and appoint management, and the Government shall appoint the perpetrator of the duties until the appointment of the Management Board. 30 days. I would like to know, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry, whether all the acts are ready and otherwise. In the next 30 days, will you be alert in this area? I personally expect the Government to tell the day it adopts the law who will be the custodian of the duty to whom we will give 20 million shares of state resources. Will it be John, or will it be France, or will it be Lois, or is it SMC, or is it a member of SD, or will you even find any foreign expert that you will say after three months, yes, foreigners are guilty of everything that is going on in Slovenian State guarantees. I am even sure that this phrase Les is our national wealth, which we listen to every time in this debate, before this law comes to life, will be translated into German because Slovenian wood will also be brought into German-speaking, not just the state, especially the companies that can and can deal with it. This 11th indent, that the guarantee should be issued on the basis of the consent of the National Assembly, does not convince me that he would say yes, but the matter is resolved because the National Assembly will already be able to settle the matter. More. If I read the Court of Auditors' opinion and the Legislative and Legal Service's opinion on this guarantee, it is essentially what the proponents, i.e. the United Left, proposed in this amendment: something national, but once again we do a little of our own, because we are just experts on how to make something normal out of something abnormal. And a state guarantee over the thumb, and so on to someone for better times. I am even more afraid that this law is obviously the first in 2016, and it will probably be followed by laws from other areas, smoke smoking will probably be a public service, in the area of health we will get something, in the field of the environment we can still doctorate from state companies. And we're going to say, yes, look, because we've already given one company a guarantee, and let's change another law to make something new, and we're going to make a guarantee there, we don't know anyone, we don't know where. What I'm talking about today is a simple solution, or here the United Left will disagree with me – the sale of the state. But don't sell out state-owned foreigners we hate so much in Slovenia. No, no, no. Selling out to good owners. And the country is almost everywhere the worst owner. Today, we are setting up a new state-owned company, as I said before, that in five years we will be fighting again, who failed and which government was the one that adopted this law, and which Members were the Members who adopted it. However, officials preparing such laws are likely to have been at the Ministry for a long time and then the Minister comes and must, in cooperation or non-cooperation with coalition parties, take such a decision or other decision. More. If the state had not been in favour of making the best use of the state forest, it had a very simple solution before it — lifting concessions, driving bad concessionaires and getting someone who had expressed a desire to pay even more just to come to work. We have a huge saw, we have a lot of people who get to know each other in this area. But no, we're going to set up a state-owned company, even though we have an agricultural land fund that I'm critical of, and I don't think is doing my job, we have a forest office, we have GGs. But no. We are setting up a company, with even a coalition member saying, yes, the address is supposed to be there on a barracks. The MP said everything — even a member of the government’s coalition’s attitude to this law. Then we will wonder who is to blame for failing to live in practice. And more. According to the practice of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, they can expect a parliamentary commission of inquiry after three mandates, where we will be asking where these 20 million out of the woods went, and if we say that this amount is not very interesting for the Slovenian public, we will be investigating some other state-owned company, which we also threw at him a million, two, ten, hundred, because people do not even feel that way when we can talk about millions. Every average citizen probably knows much better what it means to be 50 or 500 euros, because he feels when he gets a payment sheet or something else in his hands, but not where we act non-chalantly, and 20 million of the state's 20 million more after, yeah, because the National Assembly will be awake and everything will be super nice. Interestingly, there was a story on the committee between one and the other parts of the coalition, where this state-owned company was supposed to go. But when you ask Members of the Modern Centre Party, are you not members of the European Alda Group, the liberals, because a priori should oppose this law – no, the law suits us. But even more so, if you go under our hands, where Miro Cerar says, "Ah, SDH I don't care, I have nothing to do with it, ah, of course, well, check the act of what congregation and who has which man and what his duties are." That would suit you very much, wouldn't it? And that's what Alde says, like some wannabe liberal party or at least a Slovenian part of that party. So, really, if we're going to some market, let's put as few countries as we can on this market as possible and not what we're doing with this law, we're putting even a blank one, and it's likely that even some European institution will find illegal state aid to some state-owned enterprise. Although we may be able to agree, as the minister says, that someone else will not be deprived of anything, but someone will, unfortunately, have some of it. And this is the country. Since the law is completely flawed, a good attempt by the amendment, as proposed by the United Left, will not make a single living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u125	Does anyone else wish to discuss Article 10a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President, Chairman. In particular, I must speak to you because the honourable Member, Mr Lisec, who discussed it, I think he has used the word "bianko" many times, in relation to article 10.a. I have to take this. I don't know if the honourable Member knows what a blank coin is and how it compares to Article 10a. However, I will allow myself to say that the blank currency is an empty blank, only with the signature of the issuer, and there is no comparison with Article 10a, when I have already entered into a debate where in the ten indents it is very clearly defined what is necessary for the so-called guarantee contract and, more importantly, paragraph 11 which says very clearly that the consent of the National Assembly is necessary for the validity of such a guarantee to be valid. And there's no way we can talk about a blank exchange. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u127	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members and the two amendments of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you. The amendment tabled by the coalition to Article 15 in fact governs the decision taken on the Committee. There was a decision to include the opposition in the work of the Supervisory Board. This should have been followed by a change in the numerical composition of the Supervisory Board. In the amendment, we're talking about the 8-member composition of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board shall consist of five members of the proposers, one proposed by the Minister responsible for Forestry, one Minister responsible for the Economy, then a Minister responsible for the Finance and a Minister responsible for the Conservation of Nature, and each opposition in the National Assembly. At the same time, there are three representatives of workers in the Supervisory Board, which are named in accordance with the law governing the participation of workers in the management of companies. Therefore, the Supervisory Board has extended itself to the opposition in view of the decision taken by the Committee, and not least by giving an answer to the fact that this law really makes it clear that it is an awareness that we are managing natural wealth and that it is not a one-party project, that it is not a one-minister project, but that it actually involves all the resources involved in the operation and management of natural wealth, such as forest and environmental protection, and not least the link due to economic interest also to the economy. All of this will have the opportunity to monitor and formulate solutions for the opposition with the cooperation of employees. I think that this solution is truly an extremely important and high added value, which has also occurred in cooperation with the opposition on the Committee, and therefore, in my opinion, the law is also much better because of this than it was at the very moment of investing in the procedure. At the same time, this amendment regulates the functioning of the advisory body, namely the Council of Experts. The Expert Council shall be the advisory body of the management of the company, which shall consist of 10 members. Two representatives of local communities, civil society organisations in the field of environmental protection and six representatives of expert organisations and associations in the field of forestry and forestry. In fact, the Council of Experts also further integrates the general public into the way the company operates. Local communities, as well as natural protection organisations, as well as the economic and public stakeholders, can form their views and propose them to management for consideration. Of course, the procedure is such that management must be made aware of these views, be defined in these positions, and then depending on the extent to which these measures will be implemented in practice. But it is right to open up a space for discussion within the company, in cooperation with management, and here we also avoid, at this point, the likely problems that we are causing in Slovenia through the media, and do not come to that dialogue exactly where it is necessary. This also regulates the possibility of civil society participating in the operation of this company, not through the media, but directly as an advisory body of management. This is, I think, very good in this sense, because we really want to make one breakthrough in forest management, nature conservation and, finally, in the area of the economic use of wood that we have at our disposal. The amendment tabled by the coalition, in my view, significantly improves the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u129	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u130	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister with the team, as well as his colleagues and colleagues! In view of the length of the contents of this amendment, one could quickly say that in a very short period of time you would also say your opinion on this amendment. But for the introduction itself, just for a little while. I think that this marriage was one of the toughest nuts we've had in the last period, even within the coalition, and also on the working bodies of the mother. And it is also so important that the care of state forests and the management of state forests is so important that we have dealt with this issue for so long. There were different conclusions, different views, different opinions and these opinions and views needed to be harmonised. I hope we've brought them together successfully, even though there have been a few smokes and some fires. The original idea and the original idea of how many members the Supervisory Committee was supposed to have was different from the one now proposed. However, I can honestly say that I am pleased that the opposition is also involved within the supervisory authority of this new company. So that it doesn't look like my mutilation and that I want to please someone. No, in any case, this is a useful matter, and in any case, workers' representatives must also participate in this body. The professional council itself, which is made up of various institutions, can be a useful body that helps in some way to run a business. You know, sometimes you wonder if it's wise to set up a state-owned company. Listen, I always think this is better than having a situation like this for 20 years. The worst option would be to extend concessions. It is true, however, that these concessionaires who have employees, especially Slovenian workers, are allowed to participate in this story in such a way and in a different way in accordance with the rules. Personally, as well as our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal of the amendment prepared by the coalition. I also strongly agree with what the United Left has proposed, but I still think that the proposal is a little too extensive. In view of the fact that eight members of the Supervisory Board will be members of the Supervisory Board, this means that the Statute will then have to regulate which vote is preferred in an undecided vote. It will probably be the vote of the President of the Supervisory Board in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u131	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, President. In the United Left, we do not agree with the coalition's amendments. The content of the professional council seems fine to us, but we cannot agree in any way that the number of employees in the company is at a legal minimum. By law, it can be from one third to one half. Why this perfect minimum? We've already told the board, and I'll say it again. The fact that the number of employees in the company is at this legal minimum is unacceptable to us. Especially because such a proposal comes from a ministry led by the president of a party of Social Democrats, which advocates the promotion of social entrepreneurship, the compulsory participation of employees in profits and similar things. This is at the declaration level. Otherwise, I must admit that in the introduction to the Committee's consideration of the law, the Minister said that he had no problem if our proposal was adopted. However, we were over-voted. In fact, only the United Left voted to increase the number of employees’ representatives to a legal maximum, which is one half of the members. So, I – io contro tutti, again. From SDS and New Slovenia, which by nature is very receptive to everything that smells like any working arrangement, we did not expect that. However, we did not expect rejection from the Social Democrats, Desus and SMC. Even more so because you have included the strengthening of economic democracy in the coalition contract as part of the measures for the labour market, because it represents one of the elements of the exit from the economic crisis. What, then, is the extent of the participation of workers in the supervisory board of the state-owned enterprise we are establishing reduced to a minimum? And why couldn't you support our amendment on the board? Furthermore, you have now tabled an amendment to Article 15, and again here you have missed the opportunity to implement this economic democracy that you are talking about and writing about in your documents. Of course, we expect private companies not to give the number of employees a legal maximum, but we must strive, at least in state companies, to increase the participation of workers in the management of these companies. The greater participation of workers is also known elsewhere in Europe, for example in Germany, in the so-called Montana Industries, there are greater codecision rights than elsewhere. In France, there is a super-standard of co-decision, including cooperation in business bodies, right in state-owned enterprises. Workers probably care more about how their company works than anyone else, depending on their services and the survival of their families. Someone would think someone who saw trees knew about the management of businesses. But these are actually very humiliating prejudices. Also, someone who wants trees, believe me, lives on it, and wants the damn thing to go well with it and live on it for as long as possible. In addition, workers always have the opportunity to appoint someone else, an outsider to represent their interests, to appoint any trade unions or other experts to whom the workers trust. Besides, it seems to us that this is going to be a pretty big company somehow. Because it will have to take over the work that is now being done by quite a number of private companies, so we believe that workers would have no difficulty in choosing five representatives to trust them and who could peacefully represent their interests. We therefore call on you not to vote in favour of the coalition amendments, but in favour of the amendment of the United Left, at least Article 15. The provisions concerning the Council of Experts can, of course, be further supplemented in the third reading. However, if the amendment of the coalition is adopted, as usual when you are always voting us, then I now announce that we will also table an amendment on the promotion of workers' representatives in the supervisory council of society in the third reading, and we count on the coalition to be able to support our amendment at least then, as it does implement your coalition agreement and your pre-election promises on strengthening economic democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u133	Gradually, Mr. Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u134	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would ask my colleague from the United Left not to deceive how the Slovenian Democratic Party normally votes when the issue of workers and workers' rights is at stake. I would just like to draw your attention to one point: During the term of government of Janez Janša, a law was passed in 2008 on the sharing of profits among workers as well. With these words, you are deceiving. And there was also New Slovenia in the then government. We have always advocated the rights of workers, respect for workers and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u135	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. With regard to the amendment of the United Left, however, the following facts need to be further clarified. They are proposing to the 10-member Supervisory Board, of which five representatives of employees, and yet we must bear in mind that we have also made a decision on the Committee to include an opposition representative in the Supervisory Board. If we have a 10-member supervisory board composed of five employees and one member of the opposition, then we place the Government, which is responsible for the implementation of this law, because it is also a congregation, in a very subordinate position. And if the matter does not unfold – will we go ask or call the employee to account that something is wrong? The opposition has the task of overseeing, in no way taking responsibility for the decisions, for the decision-making responsibility is certainly with the Government that is forming the assembly. The proposal from the United Left could lead to the possibility of talking about completely different matters to this company, not those that are also outlined in the explanation of the law and for which it is actually responsible because it is a meeting of the company, the Government. If we want to have such a relationship, we should probably also clear up the additional responsibility of employees and not least whether the opposition is prepared to take responsibility for decisions that would be contrary to those proposed by the Government. For this reason, I cannot support this amendment and there is a much more operational amendment of the coalition, which speaks of an 8-member supervisory council, of which three are employees, one opposition, which is still a ratio of 4:4. However, in order not to block the decision-making process, it will have to be determined in the Act establishing this company that the chairman also has a decisive vote. This, of course, makes the company significantly more operational and it is not possible for it to come into a situation where it would not be able to make decisions in a timely and, above all, in a timely manner that would be as effective as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u137	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. My procedural proposal would be that the opposition will finally cease to be offended in the National Assembly. We know what the role of the opposition is both in the national assemblies and in the bodies we are talking about now. And that he also ceases to complain about his work, which, somehow, from what Mr speaker has said before me, we can conclude. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u139	Before I give my word to anyone, there were now two procedural ones that could be debated. For what has been said before,j and what has been said now, the place is in the debate if you want. However, there is no way to use procedurally to prolong the time that the debate is on. Procedurally not for discussion. Replica, Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you. I just want to clarify further, because obviously my implementation has been misunderstood. I was talking about responsibility and responsibility is actually [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u141	It counts in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u142	whatever we are looking at in the Government to ensure the implementation of this law. [[…]] We cannot work in this company, to those five representatives, as proposed, say, "Now you are responsible for everything." Because these powers, too, have not been realized how they can take this responsibility in the way that they might have wanted to understand it or understand it by a colleague. So it is right to have a clear interest and an influence on decisions, and therefore I believe that the amendment of the coalition is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u143	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment to the coalition is essentially due to the events that took place at the committee meeting. As is already clear to all, the Modern Centre Party has advocated that this new company is managed by SDH, for which it is also established, for all of the country's capital investments we have a system regime. This was the first and best solution for us. Of course, it has not turned out to be sufficiently supportive of our coalition partners as well as the opposition. It is obvious that all of them have come to realize that it is still better for policy to become as involved in the management of state-owned enterprises as possible. Some reasons, of course, are weighty. This is a company that has broad objectives of its operation, and from this point of view you can understand why it is under the Government, you can understand why four ministries; it is an important environmental issue as well as an economic issue, of course, both financial and agriculture. But it's the woods. So it was adopted on a second committee, in our opinion, a worse solution, but it was adopted. And now this amendment is on the table to harmonise this, to be managed by the Government. If these were really the reasons for the broad objectives, because we need different ministries of resources to cover this company, because these objectives need to be achieved, then it is okay. But then, at Article 16, it turned out to be politics. It is that politics wants to have a little too much to do with this company, as a member of the opposition has also been brought in. But well, it's just been adopted now, and as far as we're concerned, it's going to have to work now. And the Supervisory Board will be composed of several members, as originally thought. Now, as far as we are concerned to increase this to ten more members of the Supervisory Board, we are already attaching a million organs, one thing at the last moment, to this company, including the professional world, which will prove to be good, I think it has a great potential, but the question is, because it can also plague later only work. But we'll see how it turns out. But to add ten more members to the Supervisory Board, there are already eight of them for such a company, but we think too much in the Modern Center Party. We believe that the interests of workers with only three will be taken care of well enough and successfully. If the company grows so much that it will really have a lot of employees, then here we have a world of workers that also affects management and control. The fact that workers have control and influence over this company is, in our view, well taken care of and in accordance with legislation. As I said, we will support the coalition amendment to this article, which is due to the developments on the committee. But unfortunately we won't be able to support the one proposed by the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u145	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 16a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'll make an application. Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues from the United Left! I'm informing you that I will support the amendment to Article 16a. But let me say a few more things about other amendments, because then I won't be answering. The Law on Forest Management, owned by the State, provides new rules for the management of state forests. Almost all of us are united that the concession method so far has not been good for different reasons. The State, as the forest owner, has found that it receives insufficient resources from its forests in the form of concession fees, that there is a shortage of raw materials, quality wood from these state forests in the domestic market for the needs of domestic foresters, and that there is increasingly fewer jobs both in forestry and in the timber industry. These shortcomings try to remedy the new law, but, of course, the solutions it offers do not answer everyone. But they do not respond to those who want immediate and as much profit as possible from the forest and wood, and they do not see the other benefits of the forest. And these have been the loudest lately. They question the success of the new state-owned company, threaten to fire workers in forestry companies for lack of work, expect state aid in the resolution of technological surpluses, knock on the social sense of the country, although, if we are honest, they have not been overly taken into account in the last 20 years. I am sure that it is in Slovenian forests, whether it is national or private, enough work for everyone, of course, with the right approach and organisation of forest management. In my view, the proposal for a law in the process of adoption also makes this possible. It should be noted, however, that the biggest and most important novelty introduced by the law relates to the sale of wood. Over the past 20 years, wood has been sold by concessionaires, and this will be one of the most important tasks of employees in the new state-owned Slovenian State Forests. It is clear to all of us that business, money and profits are generated in the sale of timber, so the success of the new model of forest management will be assessed primarily on the basis of the effects of the sale of wood. And I would like to draw attention to another great advantage. The competence of the new company to sell timber solves a number of problems in the wood market. Wood from state forests will be available to all in quantities and quality under the same conditions. At the same time, this ensures the reliability of supply and the possibility of concluding long-term timber supply contracts, I stress, to domestic processors, the domestic wood processing industry. That is why, as a citizen and a member of Desus, I am very interested in the good solutions that the new Law on the Management of State Forests will bring. There is no secret that the proximity of the Austrian border and the wood processing capacity on the Austrian Koroška magnet are both for forest economies and private people, so that sales of the most quality wood across the border where the prices of wood, payment conditions and the response of woodworkers are significantly better regulated than in Slovenia. However, I would like to point out another important fact that follows the formation of this law in silence. It is not only Austria that waits for the Slovenian shade, we must not forget the neighbouring Croatia, which close to the Slovenian border by the highway Zagreb-Reka builds or finishes the timber processing centre of huge capacity. Surely it is not there by chance and accounted for by Slovenian wood. To consider those who oppose the law or are in uncertainty, or to support or reject the law. I am confident that the new state forest management regime will allow for a new development momentum wherever the state forests lie, thus creating conditions for work, new jobs and equal access to work for current and future contractors. I have told you several times that in Koroška we know what the mission of forest and wood is. The new law with the amendments adopted is also a step towards realizing this mission in the form of a Koroan woodworking centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u147	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all again! If I return to the amendment to Article 6a proposed by the United Left, I must say that I support this amendment. There's something else I'd like to say. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the amendment adopted on the Committee was amended accordingly by the United Left Group. The article lays down stricter conditions than those applicable to businessmen under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, otherwise I think it is good. Since it seems to me that this matter relates to the leadership of a future company, I would say what I think about it. The success of the company will depend on the management of the company, which will manage the state forests. Man is always the most important factor or article in this. In addition to the expertise and skills required in this regard, he will also have to be honest, which has not been done so far. Earlier, the opposition's question was where to increase the consumption of wood. I've said something before, and I'll say it again. The possibility is to build wooden buildings, kindergartens, schools, tourist facilities, wooden sound protection instead of concrete along highways, insulation, dressing public buildings, wooden windows and so on. It was a question of what products of high added value were. I'll make it very simple to say, although we had some other things here last time, products at the first presentation, including a wooden butterfly, but today I have a wooden watch. So for those of you who are interested in what added value products are, these are definitely wooden hours. There's barely a good percentage of wood in here, everything else is work and knowledge. And that's where those new jobs are added if someone doesn't understand it. It was also said what we were going to do when people didn't have the money. I believe a lot of people don't have money, but products are being bought. If they do not buy in Slovenia, they will go to Austria and we will give the Austrians money. But we do have to increase the market or consumption at home. As far as money is concerned, I think we know that some people also enjoy their vacations, but sometimes we say that they barely survive, while others have their vacations elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u149	Yes, Violeta, because I saw you squeeze twice before, so I'll give you my word right away. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I will briefly thank all the Members and Members who have supported this amendment and thus have shown a good purpose in protecting this new company that we are setting up. In fact, we all know that, after independence, state-owned companies have become a bed of clientelism, that supervisors and managers have repeatedly exhausted these companies with various advisory contracts and so on. In short, with this amendment, we will prevent this from happening to the management of the company that will implement and dispose of state forests. Such management will not be able to set up some straw companies to export business out of this company or anything like that. In this way, we will limit the possibility of looting state property as much as possible, and we believe that this is indeed one of the key articles that will curb personal financial appetites of management, so I thank you for your support in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u151	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u152	We support the proposed amendment of the United Left, because it must certainly be in the interest of managers to follow the law governing integrity and preventing corruption. And last but not least, I can recall that in the last period, together with the opposition, we have come up with good solutions in preventing corruption. We have also written one solution in the Law on the Society for the Management of Bad Claims of Banks. Today we can talk about how we are also improving this law by this provision, so that the members of management will be committed to a law that regulates integrity and prevents corruption. This is also an important message in the second reading of this law in the National Assembly. As I said, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u153	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u154	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, thank you for your input. Greetings again to the minister and the team! The hall has also become a bit full, and I am pleased that such an interest is, once again, to address a very interesting economic topic. But as a challenge to the voices on the left or the right, I think we're thinking the same thing around here, and it would be good to find a broader, non-stranger coalition on such an economic topic, and this would be an excellent opportunity for this law. So, as far as supporting the marriage is concerned, I'd kind of like to invite everyone to support it. After all, we also have a fellow woodman, Mr Tank, on the right. We meet with him several times in the hallway, and we are also discussing forest and wood, and I think it may be an opportunity to find ourselves here in some way. This hallway that separates us sometimes connects us, and I think today is also a great opportunity. To touch the amendments. As far as the amendment of New Slovenia is concerned, it is an amendment that I do not think is necessary because it is essentially a carbon footprint, but it is in some ways an option that we can include or interpret as an option for marketing in Article 2 of this Act. So I won't support this amendment. As far as the amendment of the proposal by the United Left is concerned, I will not support it either, because, in fact, these public procurement arrangements are laid down in the applicable legislation and it does not need to be explicitly re-explained here and stressed because this is in some way also a restriction in some business initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u155	Anybody else want to discuss this? He has a word first, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment to article 29 was tabled in Novi Slovenija right from the title of my colleague, who spoke before me, who announced that he would not support it, in order to transform this wood from Slovenian forests into Slovenia. And that's exactly what our amendment is talking about. New point 4 is added: The sale of forest-forest ranges should take account of the short transport routes due to carbon footprint. Forest mass from Slovenian forests is expected to be transformed into Slovenia. This carbon footprint could motivate and stimulate businesses that operate to employ more to develop products. It seems to me that I see no point in why, when we all say that production needs to be started in Slovenia when we make the amendment to really stay in Slovenia, there is no obedience to this amendment. The amendment does not conflict with European Union law on the free movement of goods and services, so I am surprised at the implementation of my fellow Members in this respect. I would like to stress that several times we get the question of where the wood will be processed, including who will. High-mountain farmers also asked questions, and this is also related to short transport routes and also to short production routes or wood harvesting. If they do receive any concessions, will they have the advantage of a mountain high-rise farm, as promised years ago in the strategy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the award of concessions in state forests? They fear that the Ministry has not forgotten this agreement, and I do not expect, lastly, the Ministry to be able to define itself on this amendment and also on my question, unless you have forgotten about mountain-mountain farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u157	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you, Madam Member, for the direct question. That's how I answer to you directly, and I'm glad to have this opportunity. Such articles are very useful in countries that are large because this means that the raw material will then be sold in its own country. In countries like ours, and if we prescribe this and you look at where our forests are, we prescribe many that wood must be taken from the forest to a place other than Slovenia. This is because of the geographical characteristics of Slovenia. In this way, a good thought, which is absolutely appropriate, could have the wrong effect, so I am very careful in this form of writing. Please pay attention to the special task entrusted to the Government by this law, and these are the criteria. However, it is clear from the criteria that we will take into account not only the carbon footprint here, we will also take into account competences, we will also take into account competence, but we will take into account what can be done by those who have a conversation to master Slovenian as well. These things are also used by comparable countries for purely understandable reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u159	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I am very much in favour of the NSI proposal because it seems appropriate for us to take into account the carbon footprint as low as possible so that the transport routes are as short as possible. But I don't think it's the law itself, it's the rules. This is how I now refer to the Minister, and I am confident that the management will write this in the rules and that this will then be done. These rules are then confirmed by the Assembly, this is the Government, and I hope that this will indeed be clearly written there, because in this way we will achieve a double effect: environmental protection, as well as the fact that the shortest possible transport routes will allow several parts of the domestic wood processing industry and domestic operators. The NSI proposal seems in place, and I hope it will be implemented in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u161	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. Because I have quite a bit of time because I haven't heard from this subject yet, because this was mainly covered by Violet's companion with our super experts, and I'm going to allow myself a little bit of breadth, even though the amendments are being discussed, because everybody took it today. We were talking about the walls, the wood wool, and so on. But I'm gonna start here where Mr. Škodnik ended up. He showed a wooden watch and talked about adding value. Do you know what the added value is for hours? With the number of complications. I don't buy expensive hours and so on, but I'm so viewed that I know. More complications have an hour, higher added value. A hundred-year calendar, moons and so on. This law on forests is such a beautiful example of complications that we have been discussing for some time. Personally, I think we should discuss more time. You know what country they've been seriously discussing the budget for hundreds of days. As he shuddered at a variety of interests, the debate is as it is. I come from a profession like all of you. The professions are not monolithic. Even when we say people, people aren't monolithous. There are various interests, which are somewhat evident in the preparation of this law. It also appears, for example, in the fact that the coalition has worked here a lot, I'm going to use a slightly non-academic term, broken down. I appreciate both colleagues from Koroška who are full of talk about this story. I've dealt with some other local and regional development story myself before I ever dreamed of ending up in Maribor, let alone ending up in this building. Now this debate you're starting, Austria, Austria, Austria! My dears, this is a 30-year-old serious project, which is involved in a whole range of issues, which crosses a whole range of ministries, which is one of the top development projects that ensures that people remain in the countryside, that they have a decent life there, in this way also locate these wood-processing plants. Some of them still seem a little bit down today, and that's kind of tolerated. The other thing is that you also need to know something with high added value to sell. I have repeatedly spoken here in Parliament that in the Middle East Austria has a huge logistics terminal primarily for construction, woody semi-products. And that's some story I miss here. Somehow we said, uh, we'd make a forest processing chain as if it were going to work itself out. Of course, this can't be solved within a few months, it can't be solved by just 20 million. In short, it's a story that needs to be taken more seriously and taken further. That's one. Second, the same performance. What bothers me more and more in this House? Well, we're lucky that here the United Left is the only one in some position virgin, if I may say so, everyone else has been in power or you're in power now to always say how to rush, we're in a time loop, up and down. The concession lasted 20 years. In the last decade, half the time in power was also a right-wing provenance. You knew, because from half the duration of the concession, some serious analysis could be done, and five years ago this debate could start, which would be here today, which I would like to talk about if we were already looking at the Austrians. It's the same when we talk about European things. And there's a very clear timeline. It's always the last minute with that cohesion. And it seems to me that this is very irresponsible of previous calls, that this is particularly irresponsible of some ministries, because several ministers are sitting on these chairs. Let's cut off this kind of artificial raccoon. Then he rushes up and down, and then we always get some half-baked. In the United Left, somehow with a whole series of amendments, we tried to add some serious security guards so that this new state-owned company, it doesn't set up too much in this country, it won't go in a direction like some of the past. So they don't politically occupy each other. Although let's face it, it's said in public that this is going to be an SD stand. There is also talk of which gentleman is supposed to be the first director. Okay, well, it's clear who, as you say, in a coalition quota has this resource. This is your responsibility, of course, and then you will answer. Even criminal if it has to be done eventually. And another thing, because we're eco-socialists, whatever that means, is White Colleague Plut wrote it very nicely, but reading 200 pages of the book requires one weekend, if not the other, to take it seriously. The forest isn't just profit. This is all about profit. The forest is a relatively beautiful ecosystem, which must be understood and managed as such. You know, in this light, a Member can say, yes, in 6% of the church forests, they've made more profits. Of course, maybe because they wanted to look at the forest more profitable than elsewhere. It's also a topic for debate. In order to now focus on this Article 29, because there is no explicit reference in the draft law on public procurement by subsidiaries, we have somehow highlighted this. We know some other laws from energy, where a few words were lost between one and the other, and the subsidiaries are out of control. This is one of the safeguards that, like the opposition must do, we are doing, and I hope that you will accept this amendment of ours. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u163	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 30a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you for saying that again. One of the members of the coalition said "the so-called Court of Auditors". I think it's some kind of insulting diction. The Court of Auditors is an important body in the Republic of Slovenia, I personally think that we should give it even more power. I read their reports on weekends, and sometimes I almost cry. And even with these amendments that we have prepared, we have followed the recommendations and advice of the Court of Auditors. I'm almost crying. It's not funny, a fellow government teammate. That's sad. The Minister himself said that they had asked the Court of Auditors for an opinion. We have also read these opinions well. We were also visited by the President of the Court of Auditors, and we also discussed this subject in part with him. Today, we had an anniversary in the State Council of the Information Commissioner Institute, and we also took into account what this institute said. In fact, in this amendment, all we want to do is make this whole commitment to the provision of public information, which I think should be the practice of all state-owned enterprises, and I would personally say that even all companies where the state retains at least 25% of the share. Who's going to say it's a marriage stunt, that maybe it wouldn't work, but that's the transparency that everybody likes to wave at in the pre-election period, and then when we step in here, it forgets too many times? In fact, the amendment follows some of the recommendations of the Institute of Information Commissioner and in a transparent manner I hope that you will support it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u165	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as the Court of Auditors’ comments are concerned, they have already been taken into account with our amendment, which we have tabled as a coalition at a meeting of the Committee and which governs that the Court of Auditors also has an insight into subsidiaries. On the other hand, as regards information of a public nature, let me say that if this amendment were supported, there would be duplication. This is already regulated by the Law on Access to Public Information, which provides that companies in which the majority state owns are subject to this law, and this does not need to be mentioned again in this law. Of course we could, but there's no need for such duplicating. Therefore, we will not support this amendment in our parliamentary group because it is already regulated by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u167	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 15th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 17.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u168	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Contributions to Social Security. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Security Contributions Act is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u169	The law, which developed this morning's very intensive debate, showed that this Parliament is also discussing things that are useful for Slovenian society. The law, which is available, gives this national assembly three different options, three options to take a step forward to keep people in their pockets, so that people would have more. One option is a social slipper, the other is a development cap and the third option is a lower taxation of Christmas. In the New Slovenia Group we will vote that the law is suitable for further consideration and thus give it the opportunity to complete it in the second reading, of course in accordance with your expectations, in accordance with your ideological guidelines and also with your public financial capabilities. Whatever you're turning around, today it turns out that at least as far as the lower taxation of the Christmas tree is concerned, that the matter is indisputable and that it has a virtually broad consensus. The other two proposals were divided. In the debate on the committee responsible, it will be practical to show what are the solutions that have the majority support that this bill will eventually become law. To all those who were concerned about the public financial consequences, let me say that the draft law provides for the date of entry into force of the Act 1. 1. 2018, which means that the law is not at risk for the already adopted two budgets, but until then we still have some time to optimize public spending or, nevertheless, from all the measures that you also claim on the government side will bring certain positive revenue into the state budget, such as the tax and other things, to make this happen in the coming year and a half, two years, however, that we will thus cover what we would leave more to people with these measures. The New Slovenia Group will vote that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u170	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting from me, too. In Slovenia, we currently have 50% of pensioners who receive pensions of less than EUR 500. We have a pension allowance to be supplemented each year by more than a billion euros from the budget. And we have 200,000 fellow citizens and fellow citizens in the ranks of health care. This means that medical and pension bills are completely exhausted, that resources are not sufficient to enable a decent survival to enable decent treatment for those who need it. The proposal proposed by the applicants, however, would take almost an additional billion euros out of these cash registers and 17% of their funds. Since we cannot support the collapse or destruction of Slovenian health care and the solidarity pension system in the United Left, we will, of course, reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u172	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, we view the debate that has been held today as positive. We are aware that something needs to be done in this area, also in line with our programme. From the point of view of the approach that was taken, however, we somehow disagree with the solutions. Why? Because of the direct consequences for the social treasury. We are talking about over 300 million effects of the reduction in the health treasury, over 600 million at the pension register. Given that the current transfer from the budget to the pension fund is about a billion and a half euros, we see that these cashiers are already being fed. If these measures were to be taken, they should be drastically cut into the basket of rights arising from there, perhaps including by the participation of those who are expected to be further burdened. Thus, those with the lowest income would probably have to pay a large portion of the services from now on, at least health care, out of their pocket. However, health services are, as we know, very expensive. For these reasons, we will not support this law. However, we look forward to further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u174	Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. We will vote against the proposal for a decision, because we have to ask ourselves, however, whether it is in the people's interest to have lower pensions and to have a lower standard of health care, which would certainly be the result of the adoption of the law proposed by the proponents. In fact, EUR 700 000 million is being reduced to pension and health allowance only because at this point some would really have a net higher salary, but later they would feel the consequences of this act in pensions, and if they were to get sick, even in the quality of health care. I don't think we can afford to bring all those with average or under-average wages into the situation that they will have to pay if they want to have adequate health care from their own pocket, because they will certainly be spending that part of the net salary they may receive by then due to other vital needs of life. So we also propose in the future that laws that interfere with such an important area as the tax burden or the unloading of one or another, i.e. either the employer or the employees, however, take a full look at the situation we are currently in Slovenia, whether the capital is actually taxed as it is comparatively taxed in the European Union. The data show that only 3.7% of the capital is taxed and, on the other hand, we find that profits in companies in Slovenia are significantly less taxed, around 17%, compared with Germany and other important European countries, which we consider to be the most competitive where this tax is around 33%. In other words, there is a trend within the European Union to try to unify the tax outlook there to 25%. These are the issues that need to be analysed before we go into a change of law that also affects the situation and status of people. In our view, this law would make people's status worse and we will therefore vote against the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u176	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We cannot support this bill in the Desus Group. In our firm conviction, it is not going in the right direction, it is contrary to the principles of righteousness, it is against the principles of solidarity, and of course we do not support such solutions. We firmly believe that it affects those most vulnerable target groups, but in some ways it gives forgiveness or additional privileges to those who already have too much. Not a social cap, not a so-called social slipper, are not solutions to meet the needs of the most vulnerable target groups. Apologize that people are fleeing abroad, that young people are fleeing abroad, but these and similar measures will not save them. It is necessary to take a comprehensive look at and highlight the issue in the context of social policy solutions, family policy, housing, fiscal rather than seeking some partial ones, and I will allow myself to say, hand-to-hand measures at this point. I believe that it is the sincere objective of all parliamentary groups to actually improve the situation of those who need the most, but these measures certainly do not come to this. As long as Desus's voice is heard in Parliament and far and wide, such solutions will not be seen in the light of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u178	Any other explanation for the voice? In your own name? Then I'm asking for an application because there are more of you. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision because I look forward to further discussion. If we do not vote in favour, there will be great regret for some because there will be no debate. In 2008, Slovenia reached 92% of the European Union average. Today, we are about 15% of the European Union's average development. With the same business policy, the economic policy we have so far, we will have more pensioners, not just half who will have a hard time spending the month. With the same economic policy as we have today, we will have more people than 50 000 on the minimum wage. And the trend is increasing. And there are more and more pensioners who are struggling to survive. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to vote in favour because I understand that capital is a bird. 8 of the 12 richest Slovenians work today, live and have businesses outside. Our companies are going out, they're going out of Slovenia. Doing the same thing and expecting better results is the definition of Albert Einstein's madness. That is why I will vote in favour of this decision and look forward to further discussions in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u180	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u181	I will vote in favour because this law pays people a minimum wage of 50 euros each month more because it brings more wages to developing engineers and brings more Christmases to all citizens. At the same time, this law does not reduce access to health services. We already have the same right to health services for citizens today, no matter how much we pay for health bills, more or less, we all have the same rights. And this system keeps going. This law also does not reduce pensions for those with the lowest income or minimum wage. Of course, this law requires the country to make considerable efforts over the next two years. What kind of effort? To give more people a job, so that more people will pay for health and pension bills. It requires efforts by the State to start effectively pursuing the grey economy and also requires the efforts of the State to pursue work in black. This is where the story turns. If this government coalition has so far imposed these efforts for fiscal consolidation on the part of people or on the economy by increasing taxes, this law reverses logic. Leave more money to people, but on the other hand, it requires hard work from the country, which is why I support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u182	Mr Franz Jurša has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At the outset, I must say that I will not vote that the law is suitable for further consideration. Of course, I will ask respected colleagues and colleagues from New Slovenia who wrote you an economic programme. According to the knowledge of your membership, I can safely claim that they would not accept or support something like this. To support those who have large salaries and employers, it is very wrong, because I consider this to be a higher salary if you want, but I do not like to say this because we have also contributed to the times of crisis and recession, and we are also giving this in some way to give support to Members, government officials, management authorities, senior officials, and perhaps there is an engineer, and everyone else would not enjoy it. Do you realize that this would mean less than 600 million euros in pension and 300 million less in medical bills? In addition to reminding you, the budget must put €1.4 billion into the pension allowance, especially because they have once reduced the contribution of employers to the pension fund by half and we are unique to the European Union. All of this points me in the direction that I really cannot accept or support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u184	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. I won't support the proposal. I can briefly comment with a youth ref: "Saws flew in, didn't take the hat, they took the boy." And this little boy on this proposal is young and older. I remember how, when we have amended the budget, New Slovenia will not be able to repay the debts. I may have even liked that part of the time as a volunteer, but I don't know if it's insanely responsible. Now her young people in Berlin, the EPP educated leader says, oh what, because it is only two years from now that this billion will come, says, among other things, that all citizens will go up Christmas. Look, colleague Tonin, most of the citizens of Christmas will never see the current state. I agree, however, with the Member sitting at seat 90, that we need an economic industrial policy, because without it the pensions will be even lower, and without it the bear of Members and Members will not be lower. Very domestically, we need some marginal conditions that will allow for the next decade, that will not be lost, that we will get half a dozen Krks and one dozen Collectors, if I make it very clear that Nova Slovenija will understand. This, of course, will not be achieved by such pleasing proposals. I have said several times in this National Assembly that we must move on to some more intelligent taxation, that we must first ask ourselves why some taxes and what policies are being monitored. I read the Guardian this morning, and it says, "Death of the Fallen." It's a done deal. And let's talk a little bit more about funeral activity, and it wouldn't be a shame to start talking a little bit more wisely about taxes. I'll vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u186	Procedural? I'm asking if there's any other explanation for the voice. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u187	Nicely greeted! I will not vote in favour of this bill alone because public finances need to be balanced. This law, however, interferes with medical and pension bills. That's why I'm going to define myself with no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u188	Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u189	Of course, I will vote for the law. Also because I hear from the economists how urgently these measures are necessary. If we overtax the middle layer or young researchers, our entrepreneurs have a problem because they go to other countries. Then all we have left is that low-paid workforce and no added value. And we need quality, high-tech products. On the other hand, I often hear that we pay off the Christmas tree, but this country collects half of it. And they're looking for other options, from prosciuttos to champagnes and so on. And I think that money would still be good for people. Not that half the country gets it out of there. Young people are leaving abroad educated because they are unemployed because we do not allow entrepreneurs to earn a little more and invest again in expanding production. These are jobs, and these are pensions. And you say that only the state must contribute as much as possible to this pension fund. Of course, it must be because pensioners have earned pensions, but we will have the most in line with this if many people are to be employed and pay contributions. And you don't want to hear it. I will vote in favour of this law because I think this is a step in the first direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u190	Mr Tomaž Gantar has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support the proposal because it constitutes an essential intervention in the social security system. But for health care, it just means disaster. True, we all have the same rights on paper, and the fact is that these services have to be paid somewhere. And with hundreds of millions less in the health treasury, these rights will be reduced accordingly. On the one hand, people are actually offered an additional €50 in their pocket, as the motioner claims. The second pocket, however, will take hundreds of euros for social rights. I can't support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u192	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u193	This time, I am in favour of Slovenia being a more competitive country, attracting foreign investors and thus opening new jobs. That is why I will vote in favour of this law, which means lower taxes. People deserve it. This law gives them two options. Those who have the lowest wages, those who are also on the social side, will be allowed to receive more than 50 euros at the end of the month. That's the first thing. Second thing, help economists and people to pay Christmas as a reward to employees. And then this worker is even more motivated. The debate has shown conceptual differences in perception of what taxes are, what taxes are not. However, the problem arises when it appears that some, particularly from the political prestige of the opposition's good proposals, which envision better wages, do not want to support. And I regret this through all this debate and even today's vote. Slovenia must become a more competitive country in this global market. If we don't do this soon, time will overtake us. All those who say that this proposal of our law would be a disaster for the health treasury – ladies and gentlemen, the health treasury will be in disaster due to poor demographic policy and demographic indicators, the clientism of corruption and the fact that the ruling coalition also rejects health reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u194	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 27 for them and 54 for them. [[There were 27 votes in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 10 for them and 55 for them. [[Ten votes in favour.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 10a. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we believe that Article 10a, which lays down specific conditions for obtaining guarantees, should be deleted. The deletion does not, of course, mean that Slovenian state forests will not be able to rent credits, nor with the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia, but those guarantees must be subject to standards that apply to all other state-owned enterprises and other entities. If we look at the comparison of the criteria for granting guarantees proposed for SDG with the criteria in the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for financing companies' investments, we see quite a difference. In the case of companies, in the case of interest, the cost of lending is only the principal, i.e. no interest and no costs, for example in the case of state forests, and they are included in the total amount of the guarantee obligations. If we look at the maturity of the loan, it must not be less than 1 year and longer than 10 years for companies, for state forests it must not be less than 7 years and not longer than 25 years and so on. The dispute is also the 9th point, which states that "the State will fulfil the guarantee obligation within 10 working days of receiving the creditor's call, from which it is clear that despite his call within the agreed time limit the borrower has failed to fulfil the outstanding obligation..." In short, the State will only have 10 days to examine the creditor’s call to determine whether the call is justified or whether the borrower has not fulfilled the obligation and so on. Or worse, within 10 days, the state will have to comply with the guarantee obligation. Please, I would like to invite you, also at TES 6 the National Assembly voted on guarantees, and the conditions were even worse, but the directors drove you through the water. Therefore, in order to avoid further parliamentary investigations that may take place, please reconsider and I call on you to support our amendment, which says that Article 10a is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u196	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, President. Article 10a of the draft law in the second paragraph sets out very clearly in paragraphs 1 to 10 all the necessary elements for the guarantee contracts that are necessary. The fact is that in the ninth indent of this paragraph there is a discussion of the subsidiary guarantee. I believe that all those who know what it means, the subsidiary guarantee is a perfectly reasonable deadline that is stated. However, the eleventh indent of this same paragraph makes it very clear that this guarantee contract will apply if it has previously obtained the consent of the National Assembly. On this occasion, I would like to point out, however, that this Article 10a must by no means be compared to the so-called Bianca menu. And when all these procedures have been implemented, then the signing of the guarantee contract with the Minister of State, in this case the Minister of Finance, will follow. Therefore, the amendments tabled by the United Left Group will not be supported by the Group of Members of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u198	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 55. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 15 under number one. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors shall become a Joint Left to the same Article under the headings 2 and 3 irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 for them and 18 for them. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD groups to Article 15 to Article 1 has been adopted, the United Left amendment to the same Article under Article 2 and Article 3 has become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 16a. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 29 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 29 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 53 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 30a. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. While we are very happy in the United Left that an amendment was adopted, which added Article 30a, which deals with the supervision of the Court of Auditors. We have also proposed the same amendment in this regard, but we have also taken into account the concerns of the information officer in our amendment, in addition to the Court of Auditors' concerns on the proposal for a law. In our opinion, Slovenian State Forests must be committed to public access. Since the beginning of the examination of this law in the National Assembly, this law has already improved considerably in terms of ensuring transparency in the functioning of Slovenian state forests. However, he still lacks a point in which this company would also become committed to the provision of information of a public nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u200	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 49. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 45. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 10. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I note that, in the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended law and that the representative of the proposer of the proposed law had already proposed, in the debate on the amendments tabled, that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 18. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 3rd reading of the bill will be done on Tuesday, 2. 2. 2016, at 2 p.m. The services of the National Assembly will prepare a review including the amendments adopted and the articles adopted by the amendments. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on funeral activity and the management of burial sites under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on funeral activity and the management of burial sites is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 6. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Media in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 26. 1. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we will be absolved in the vote on the amendment of the Media Law. There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, it offers an attempt to regulate the hate speech in commenting online, which we welcome, and it is certainly an important step. At the same time, it also brings the right to correction into line with the Constitutional Court's decision. The main question is, of course, quotas. In view of the fact that they have been corrected, since they have long been legal, we have twice proposed in the United Left that quotas should become more than administrative barriers. On both occasions, we were not receiving any attention. In fact, there has to be a lot of skepticism up to the music quotas. I wonder if there is really a way for the music scene to develop, to encourage the quality and variety of music production of domestic creators, to encourage young and less established creators. In short, the coalition has changed the content of the provisions several times, but it is obviously not about the real progress of quality music creation. We have proposed that part of the quotas be allocated to young and unenforced musicians, which you did not want to accept. We were outvoted. The country is a vehicle of public cultural interest and is responsible for music culture, not just in the public media. However, it is obvious that the public interest in this government is quite different. Wrong. You'll be the ones who will be wearing the consequences of the sealing of your ears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u202	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I interrupt the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Tuesday, 2. 2. 2016, at 2 p.m.
