ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Vesna Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Andreja Potočnik from 16:00 on, Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, Dr Vinko Gorenak, mag. Dušan Verbič, Dr Dragan Matić, Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 16:00 on and Mag. Branislav Rajic from 16:00 on. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I'd like to say hello to the rest of you! We are moving on to the agenda of the 30th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 9 March 2016 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 30th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, the proposal recommended the management of state assets. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 28 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this motion for a decision, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Mag. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Group of New Slovenia and the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have decided to make a reference to the procedure of the National Assembly for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on government property management. In all three parliamentary groups, we are convinced that the current administration of state property under the Government of Mir Cerar and under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance and Minister of Finance of Dr Dusan Mumorje is significantly departing from the State Property Management Strategy. It should also be pointed out that the management of state property deviates substantially from all the pre-election promises made by the largest coalition party, the Modern Centre Party, namely ethics, morality and transparency. In all the three parliamentary groups that have submitted this request, we are convinced that the Modern Centre Party, which is also the leader of this government and is the most responsible, has turned the board around 180 degrees in terms of ethics, morality and transparency. In all three parliamentary groups, we are convinced that the highest responsibility for the management of state property lies with the President of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar, and with the Minister of Finance, Dr. Maramor. I would like to mention below the essential reasons why we have decided to take this step. It all started with the change of management of the Slovenian State Holding, since until today, neither the President of the Government nor the Minister of Finance have both communicated to the National Assembly and the general public where the reasons for the change of management of the Slovenian State Holding were. The fact is that, of course, the Government has a legitimate right to replace the management of members of the supervisory boards in companies where the State has a majority share, or in companies that are under the auspices of the Slovenian State Holding. However, given the promises made before the elections and, of course, the promises made at the time of the adoption of the State Asset Management Strategy, everything looked really different. Today, there are mainly those shortcomings that we have been alerting opposition parties to both the adoption of the State Property Management Strategy and the amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act. I would like to point out below some cases that seem to indicate violations and deviations from what is stated in the State Asset Management Strategy. For all these events that have taken place, we believe in all three parliamentary groups that they are acting to the detriment of companies that are in state administration and that they are also a potential threat to the damage of tax money. Finally, we agree that the Government is responsible for the performance of state property, but we absolutely cannot agree that the state property is the property of the Government of Mir Cerar. Following the replacement of leadership in the Slovenian State Holding Council, which was implemented by the National Assembly by the Government of Mir Cerar, we are convinced that all decisions or changes are subject to the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Government of Miro Cerar and, of course, the Members of all three coalition parties – the parties of the modern centre, the Social Democrats and Desus – who have also confirmed this supervisory council in this National Assembly. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself, there has been a significant disclosure, which we have already mentioned in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. In the opposition at that time, we warned that there was a great risk, or high probability, that mag. Barbara Smolnikar does not meet the conditions for a member of the Supervisory Board. On the Committee on Finance, the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding said that mag. Barbara Smolnikar, in connection with the New Ljubljana Bank, is to be voted out. The fact is, we've been alerting this case, because it's magic. Barbara Smolnikar is also an employee or CEO of the company in which Nova Ljubljanska Banka has a 50% stake. We can talk the most about concerns about the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. The appointment of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank has been made in a non-transparent manner, and the most worrying are the names that the Slovenian State Holding has confirmed in this company. Of course, these are names that are deeply linked to the history of the New Ljubljana Bank, and most of the proposed members of the current Supervisory Board have been employed in the New Ljubljana Bank system. In particular, they have been employed in subsidiaries and subsidiaries, and we are therefore convinced in the parties that we have proposed this meeting of the National Assembly that there is a high risk that these persons bear a large part of the responsibility for the situation in the New Ljubljana Bank. If we remember, the New Ljubljana Bank had to be saved by taxpayers with about three billion euros. All these names that appear are in dispute with us. However, the fact is that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself has revealed that some of these members do not meet the basic criteria set by the Slovenian State Holding Accreditation Commission. The force of the unusual decision taken by the Government of Mir Cerar and the Ministry of Finance is the collective decision of the Company for the enforcement of bank claims, namely the transfer of the claims of the Sava Company, d. d. to the Slovenian State Holding, we are talking about the value of claims of approximately €42 million. Even on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have been able to come to the conclusion that the Slovenian State Holding does not know where it will get the funds to purchase these claims, and finally the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding has not discussed the subject at all. We are convinced that it is also a very untransparent merger of the Factor Bank and Probanks into the DUTB. In fact, this association was carried out without some serious balances and revisions. We ask both the Government and the Ministry of Finance why they decided to do so and why the Company needs more than a hundred new people. The fact is that the sale of state property under the current government of Mira Cerar is a non-transparent way and there is a high risk that buyers of state property – in particular, would expose two companies, Adrio Airways and Palomo, d.d. – are not those who would be suitable and suitable buyers. The fact is that under this government state property is sold mainly to some financial funds, which start companies for the purchase of Slovenian companies only a few days before the contract is signed and come from almost so-called tax havens – Cyprus and Luxembourg. We would also point out that the government has double standards. When appropriate, they shall make a decision regarding the disposal of state property or the operation of state property, when they do not want to take responsibility, and they shall come before the public with a statement that the Government of Mira Cerar has nothing to do with these decisions. Here we would point out only the case of Telekom when the government, as a congregation, did not want to decide whether the offer was appropriate or not. In the second case, for example, the Government issued a recommendation to the capital company not to accept the takeover offer or purchase of Ptuj Perutina. They would also expose us to the reckless and uneconomic purchase of the shares of the Sava Reinsurance Company by the Republic of Slovenia. The state budget has accounted for more than €6 million. We are convinced that this purchase was unnecessary and that in the situation in which Slovenia is today, it would probably be more reasonable to allocate these funds to some other areas, such as the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior. The fact is that at the Committee on Finance itself, there was quite an uproar debate that some members of the coalition probably disagreed, particularly with the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, but the fact that when the vote took place was actually re-voting against what we have proposed by the three opposition parties. In view of the fact that the Committee on Finance itself has not adopted any decision, I would like here to highlight the conclusions we have proposed. That the National Assembly recommends that the Government, as the Assembly of the Slovenian State Holding in the management of state property, cease immediately to derogate from the State Asset Management Strategy and that the National Assembly expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to introduce within 30 days of the adoption of this Decision a new strategy for the management of state assets, which will ensure more efficient, transparent management of state assets, and in particular that this strategy will determine which buyers are eligible for the purchase of Slovenian companies. At least for us, the third decision is that the Government will determine within 30 days the responsibility of the management authorities of the Slovenian State Holding Authority for decisions in the cases of sale of Adria Airways and Paloma, that the Government will determine the responsibility of the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board in the resolution of the previous management of the Slovenian State Holding Board and that the Government will determine the responsibility of the supervisory board and the management of the Slovenian State Holding Board in the appointment of the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank. As proponents, we expect – especially in view of the fact that the Minister of Finance has failed to participate in the work of the mother body dealing with this subject – that the Minister will probably explain today both to Members and Members of the National Assembly as well as to the general Slovenian public what happens to state property, what risks we take with these appointments and the purchase and sale of taxpayers. However, I also expect some answers to questions that we have not received at the committee's own meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u3	The proposal for a recommendation is 11. 3. 2016 discussed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Since the Committee had not adopted the draft recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the working body meeting had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 49th emergency meeting, the Committee considered the proposal for a recommendation on the management of State property submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft recommendation was tabled by the SDS Group on 3rd paragraph within the deadline of business. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Bank of Slovenia, the President of SDH, the President of the SDH Supervisory Board, the Chairman of the SDH Accreditation Commission and the Legal and Legislative Service were present. On behalf of the applicant, the Committee member and the SDS Member of the SDS Group Marko Pogačnik presented the introductory supplementary explanation to the proposal. At the same time, he pointed out that the Government deviates from the State assets management strategy on all the key objectives identified by the strategy. In his explanation, he highlighted the replacement of SDH management, the issue of the sale of two state shares in Paloma and Adria Airways, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which voted at the DUTB Assembly on the transfer of Sava d.d. claims. at the Slovenian State Holding, supervised liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank and their transfer to DUTB, and drew attention to the access of the President of the NLB administration and the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Finally, he presented the content of all three conclusions in the Recommendation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Service had comments, which in particular concern the substantive framework of the Strategy, and the comments to point 3 of the Recommendation were taken into account by the amendment. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said that the Government, as the SDH Assembly, has certain powers and commitments to provide a consistent regulatory framework for the efficient management of state assets. He considered that the Government was responsible for carrying out public property in accordance with the OECD strategy and guidelines. He further explained the indicators on which the government can measure the effectiveness of state-owned management in order to make this exercise as efficient and cost-effective as possible. In his view, the Government acted transparently, as most of the topics identified were also already addressed at individual meetings of the working bodies in the National Assembly. It is essential that the procedures initiated in accordance with the objectives and with the criteria of the strategy for individual undertakings are also concluded. In the debate, the Chair of the SDH Accreditation Commission presented the work of the Commission for a short time. In the discussion below, the members and members of the Committee highlighted in particular the issue of nominations for the functions of NLB and the reasons for the withdrawal of two members of the Supervisory Board. They requested a minutes of the Accreditation Commission meeting and also raised the issue of the resignation of one of the members of the Accreditation Commission. They were interested in the timing of the selection procedure and the fulfilment of the tendering conditions of all candidates, their number and the fulfilment of the conditions of the candidates selected. They requested the public publication of the report of the SDH Supervisory Board and SDH Board meetings on the selection of candidates. They raised the issue of consultation with the Bank of Slovenia on the selection of candidates and how many members of the administration have been disbarred by the Bank of Slovenia in the past. Members and members of the Committee were interested in the possible consequences if the assessment of the European Central Bank on candidates was negative. They also raised a question regarding the call for the NLB President and why the number of members of the NLB Supervisory Board had to be increased. At the end of the discussion, further questions were raised regarding the connection of Probank and Factor Bank to DUTB and the transfer of claims from Sava d.d. From DUTB to SDH. In the course of the debate, the questions raised were answered by all those invited to provide further clarifications on the questions raised. The Committee of the SDS Parliamentary Amendment to point 3 of the Recommendation did not adopt it. The Committee then voted on all parts of the draft act and did not adopt them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Dr Dušan Maramor, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u6	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The heart of today's debate of this council is the question of the appropriateness of the management of state property or, more specifically, the individual decisions of the national asset manager. Let me first explain how the system of government management is designed in the Republic of Slovenia. This management is governed by the Slovenian State Holding Act. It established a corporate governance system in Slovenia following the OECD recommendations. The law takes into account the OECD Guidelines on Corporate Governance of State-owned Enterprises, which we are obliged to take into account as a member of the OECD. The next OECD leader is the main objective of the law to ensure that policy does not interfere with the management of state-owned companies. This objective is also confirmed only by the text of the law. The law states that the national asset manager, the Slovenian State holding company, must act independently and independently. Moreover, according to the law, the Slovenian State Holding and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of the State authorities or third parties in the performance of their tasks. It follows clearly from the above that the Government must not affect the decision-making of the Slovenian State holding company. This does not change the fact that the Government is a shareholder of the Slovenian State Holding. Slovenian State Holding is a company with a two-tier management system. This is with a system where there is a separation between supervisory authorities and management authorities. In accordance with this section contained in the Company Act, the management of the business of the company shall be independent and on its own responsibility. It is stated that the shareholder does not have the opportunity to decide on the business of the company on a daily basis, but it also confirms the provision that states that the Assembly cannot decide on business management issues unless it requires management. I would like to point out that only the fact that the Government is proposing to the members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding Council does not mean that the Government can determine what kind of business the holding company should conclude and which it does not. Firstly, such an impact on the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding Company excludes already reasoned independence of the holding company and its administration. Secondly, the impact excludes the fact that, in accordance with the Company Act, a member of the Supervisory Board must act in the management of its tasks in the interests of a company with the care of a conscientious and fair economic operator. It follows from the above that the monitoring of the Company Act for the benefit of a company in which a person is in the body is before the instructions given to that person by shareholders. I also point out that the Government has no influence on the appointment of members of the management or control bodies of state-owned companies. Whoever appoints members only in individual companies shall be informed by the Company Act, as this depends on the status of the individual company. However, regardless of the status of the individual company owned by the State, the management entitlements to the company in question shall be exercised by the Slovenian State holding company. I stress that the independence of SDH in this respect is the essence of the law governing its operation. Of course, this does not mean that the Government has no influence on the management of state property. Of course it does, but this influence is limited by the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Company Act. According to them, the influence of the Government can only be reflected in the setting up of a broader framework of the Slovenian State Holding. The government laid down this broader framework when it proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Strategy, and the Government set this broader framework when it adopted the SDH Performance Measurement Criteria. The criteria provide that SDH must pursue both financial and non-financial objectives. Among the financial targets, I should mention a return on capital of 4,2 % in 2016 and a cost-effectiveness of up to 0,5 % of the value of investments in management. The criteria also define the achievement of an annual dividend payment plan of €86.5 million and the achievement of an annual capital investment capital injection plan of €250.4 million. By adopting the key acts described for the operation of SDH, the role of the Government ended here. Thus, the Government is not competent to influence the management of individual capital investments or the way in which they are privatised. Since, therefore, the SDH is the only one competent to provide for specific day-to-day management of the State's capital investments and, in so doing, to be independent and independent, the debate of the National Assembly, which would interfere with the described competence of the holding company, would not only affect the competence of the independent manager of the State property, but would also exceed the text of the acts adopted by the National Assembly itself, namely the text of the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Act on Economic Companies. I believe that the objective is not to devote resources, so I believe that the debate which wishes to influence the management of State property is not appropriate for the impact on the management of State property. Allow me to point out that, within the framework of its competences, the Government, in its written response, which has also been transmitted to this assembly, has provided detailed explanations on the indications set out in the call for an extraordinary meeting. I also stress that the Government is closely monitoring the implementation of the State's Capital Investment Management Strategy, while also scrutinising the implementation of the principles of transparency, economy and governance. However, I must stress in particular that such discussions in the highest political body, as well as today's, have a significant impact on the image of Slovenia as a country where politics is directly involved in businesses. This, of course, reduces Slovenia's attractiveness for foreign direct investment, which we still need and have comparatively at least, and thus reduces the success of state-owned privatisations, which do not belong to state ownership in accordance with the strategy. All of this has very negative consequences for the number and quality of jobs, GDP growth, public finances and generally for the welfare of Slovenian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! When considering the Proposal for a Recommendation on the management of state property, we would like to point out in the introduction that the management or management of state property is a debate for all people, which is certainly both current and necessary for all Slovenes and Slovenes and should not be avoided in the National Assembly. The affection for public and common is something that unites us, and it is obvious that the vast majority of citizens and citizens also want our common assets to be managed for the common good of all of us. If we look at the history of our property management organization, we have decided to try to satisfy the widest range of people. We have established the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Capital Society. The Slovenian compensation company was intended to make payments for the wrongs caused by denationalisation and for the provision of pension funds by the KAD or the Capital Society. In short, denationalisation is a short-term interest, sale and payment, and pensions are a long-term generation process. As we assess the state ownership situation today, I think we can find that the short-term interest has prevailed, i.e. the early sale of banks, aviation, telecommunications, trade marks – such as Alpina, Pekko, Paloma, in the last period of the very current Cimos – the food processing industry and so on. All of this property should in fact be a substantially greater guarantee for pensions and for generations who expect to have a decent autumn of life as well. I think that the indicators of asset value, which is mainly in Kad administration, would show that the Capital Society is losing more assets and that, in fact, we have been cut off by a bank hole, which is to a large extent the result of speculation in the uncontrolled indebtedness of banks and private enterprises in 2004-2008. Banka Slovenije has not done its job as regulator – we can assess during this period. At the time the banking sector and the economy were in debt, it was, of course, necessary to remedy this gap with 5 billion dollars, for which Slovenia was in charge. At the moment you fall into debt, of course, you are also in the grip of speculation by international financial markets, which see above all the profits in the sale of our assets. I would like to say that there was also a reason to abolish the Capital Investment Management Agency, which was also somehow established to bring together the management of both the Slovenian Indemnity Society and the Capital Society and to try to ensure the best possible profit and long-term sustainability of state-owned companies. However, the interest prevailed that the Agency should be discontinued despite the envious achievements it had achieved in the short term. The Slovenian State Holding Act was adopted, which we are also discussing today in the National Assembly. This led to a change of management, as the Capital Investment Management Agency was under the direct control of the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly, including the Government, if you wish, and not least with this public. The Slovenian state holding company functions as an undertaking and supervision of this company is significantly more demanding, made difficult by the public than by the Agency. Due to the bank hole and everything that has happened in the last period, we should be extremely careful about how we will form the authorities of the management of the Slovenian state holding company, both the administration and the supervisory board, because this dual management is the one that, last but not least, shows that everything in Slovenia is often caused by two-tier management. Here, of course, all these procedures would be expected to go in this direction, in the administrations and in the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding, to be as few people as possible who were connected to the bank hole. In the debate on the labour market, we have been able to very clearly hear that it is also a conflict of interest for representatives in the supervisory board, so that even individuals do not decide on individual issues because they are a conflict of interest related to their previous management of tasks. When it comes to three such representatives in the supervisory council, the question is, of course, whether we have enough organised governance of state property. The relationship between the Administration and the Supervisory Board is crucial if we can talk about transparent governance. When it comes to mutual bargaining and exclusion due to conflict of interest, this transparency is certainly affected, but it is crucial that we do not have or repeat things that have already happened in the history of state property management. Therefore, we believe that, due to better supervision, an agency should be established as soon as possible to train the staff that can then be called supervisory functions and administrations. This also replaces today's situation when we actually find that this function is managed by the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, which is privately owned, and this association actually educates and licenses personnel who then manage state-owned companies. The establishment of a demographic fund should also be carried out as soon as possible to raise funds from state assets for a long-term and sustainable pension system. The demographic fund is also the one who would still closely monitor the state-owned enterprise, lose its value, or lose its value, or provide us with a sustainable pension system in the future. If we look at cases happening to us in the past period, such as Adria and not least the New Maribor Credit Bank, where we are actually paying to buy these companies, we need to ask ourselves again very clearly whether it would not be better to allow and establish a mechanism for working ransom with these funds than to sell businesses and brands in a way that we can even pay for someone to buy them. In short, the Capital Investment Management Strategy makes it very clear that further existence and development of state-owned companies, new investments, opening new markets and maintaining or increasing jobs should be followed. This is what we believe should be the primary objective in the management of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u9	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u10	It's a nice greeting from me, too. The United Left has taken part in the elections by calling for privatisation to stop and, in contrast to some, we have not forgotten our request. The recommendations before us relate to the cases of Adrie Airways and Paloma, but the same findings that the applicant cites could also apply to NKBM, Adrio Airways Techniko or Telekom. That's why we're in the United Left because we knew this was going to happen, already in 2014, we proposed to the National Assembly to repeal that landmark decision on privatisation of 15 companies adopted by the Alenka Bratušek Coalition. The decision was rejected on the parental committee and was supported by only another Member, who is no longer in Parliament today. Therefore, today we will not discuss how these important companies, which need to be listed in the management strategy, should be developed for the benefit of citizens and employees, but will discuss whether these companies are better sold to the X or Y financial fund. If you have not noticed, no one is talking about strategic partners anymore, the buyers are just different holding companies, which are mostly speculative dealers. In the United Left, we have been stressing all the time that there is an alternative, that is, working management and planning. The problem is that the political class and the various capital-management groups that run state-owned enterprises and their privatisation are neither willing nor able to enforce these alternatives. Before I focus on alternatives, I must provide a political analysis of today's debate and its players. I personally assess that the fight between the two factions of the political class is about influence in state-owned enterprises and the impact on the privatisation process. Since the beginning of the restoration of capitalism in Slovenia, the right faction has been frustrated that it has not been able to build its capital elite. Translated into the language of facts, this means that the initial accumulation of capital, which took place through the transition and initially called ownership, during the first Janša government the withdrawal of the country from the economy and under the government of the Modern Centre Party a deliberate privatisation. SMC is a client of the new faces and therefore has the advantage of being able to blame the former coalition for the situation. Other systemic parties do not have this privilege because they were alone in the privatisation governments. The problem is that SMC and its government use the same methods that have brought the country into the economic crisis and have condemned many citizens to long-term unemployment, poverty and alienation. This government does not really implement a management strategy, but rather a sales strategy. This is comparable to that of the first Janša government when only the Court and Kad sold shares in 190 companies. Jože P. Damian found that the privatisation of the state's financial assets did not increase at the time, but even decreased. The court used the bulk of the purchase to purchase new securities, but the value of its portfolio fell from EUR 300 to EUR 142 million between 2007 and 2009. In 2007, the Court had virtually no loans and in 2009 it had already 228 million loans. This again shows that privatisation is not a recipe to increase the country's financial assets or to reduce public debt. Another aspect to be highlighted is the fate of privatised companies. Among the privatized are many infamous cases, such as Mercator, Primorje, we now have on Alpino wallpaper. Dr. Janez Prašnikar calculated that in February 2015, 20 % of the companies sold in 2004 to 2008 were now in bankruptcy or liquidation. Thus, 20% of the privatised companies prior to the crisis were in liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings in 2015. Privatisation has not improved corporate governance; on the contrary, it has obviously allowed further financial exhaustion. There is no guarantee that this will not happen again, especially since our companies are now taking over speculative holding companies, not strategic partners or anyone you promised will. The third aspect of management is staffing. In companies which the Government does not intend to privatise, it employs people who are clearly unable to manage the policies of these companies in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Names, such as Marko Jazbec or Matthew Narat, are similar to those of the first Janša government. It is known for the economic damage that they left behind in Luka Koper and the Intereuropas, for example, in the administration of Robert Czasar or Andrej Lošin. The personnel appointed by SDH to the NLB Supervisory Board have about as much confidence as the appointment of Matjaž Kovacic as the Chairman of the NKBM Management Board in 2005. The comparison may be exaggerated, but the essence is clear – the political class obviously lacks credible personnel to manage economic systems. The severe human resource exhaustion is also highlighted by the profiles of personnel designated by system parties to the positions of vice-governors and by the unsuccessful calls for nomination of members of the Fiscal Council. The combination of poor planning, inadequate human resources policy and privatisation has already brought this country into a severe economic crisis, from which we have not recovered yet. If this continues, it will cause much damage in the future. I will point out the warnings of Dr. Janez Prašnik, who has done the most empirical research of these processes, which says: "At the beginning of the crisis that cost Slovenia about 30% of the potential GDP," we have lost 30% of the potential GDP by this crisis so far, "we have contributed to a large extent ourselves. It was created by autonomous processes on the floating Slovenian financial market, triggering sudden events that led to changes in the existing rules of the game. Two events are crucial. By entering the EU and the euro area, national risks have been reduced, which has stimulated a large inflow of capital through the banking system. This was followed by a declaration in 2005 of the State’s rapid exit policy from the two key funds of the Court and Kad, which led to an investment mania, which took place mainly through corporate indebtedness. When companies found that the political will to buy equity shares at "acceptable" prices and that, in particular, the two largest state banks were willing to finance these purchases, they changed their relationship to risk and the investment chill ruled in all segments. Thus, in 2004-2008, debt in the non-financial business sector increased by as much as €13 billion." About 1.7 billion were for the purchase of ownership shares in own or other companies, said to be so-called Taiwanese acquisitions. This resulted in poor loans that will obviously be paid by citizens and citizens for years to come. Dr. Prašnikar warns that this history can be repeated quickly. "Mass privatisation could lead to the re-emergence of asset balloons, which would undermine the fragile recovery of the Slovenian economy. The second aspect is macro-economic effects. Nobel Prize winner Stiglitz usually starts his performance this way: I hope there are other economists among us who remember that they once learned about the difference between social well-being and private well-being." These warnings are in place. Our governance strategy has also apparently been written by people who do not distinguish the difference between public and private interest. The fact is that there is no defined public interest in governance in the form of non-financial objectives in the governance strategy, which we have called on in the United Left through the entire treatment of this strategy. For each company, only the financial indicators of its profitability are given, but for no such thing are the prescribed jobs. The SDH leadership now manages 13 billion state-owned enterprises, but it cannot ask administrations to be responsible for jobs or for development, because these categories are simply not in the strategy. Everything is reduced to zero profitability, and despite this, as I have already said, we have put forward clear amendments to these objectives throughout the whole discussion. Warnings from economists are also valid because the management strategy foresees a rapid withdrawal of the country from business. The privatisation list does not only cover 46 portfolio investments, but also allows partial privatisation of strategic and important companies. In the light of the proposed amendments to the Slovenian Railways and Plans Act, it is clear to the Government with the second track that they will be the first in the turn of the Slovenian Railways' subsidiary, and then probably Luke Koper. It turns out that the clause in the dispersed ownership of companies such as Krka or Sava Preinsurance is unfortunately irrelevant. The country does not have the right majority to change their statutes, so we have proposed that companies such as Krka, Petrol and others be classified as strategic. As these proposals have not been adopted, these companies are now directly exposed to hostile acquisitions. The fiduciary accounts have already collected funds. So what are the alternatives to this combination of poor planning, inadequate human resources policies and privatisation? First of all, privatisation has to be stopped. The first reason for this is a narrow financial one. Private owners do not come to rescue or develop our companies. They come simply to return their purchases as soon as possible and to make a profit. This is the margin that we will lose as a long-term company by privatising instead of keeping these companies company-owned and managing them for the benefit of citizens. The second reason is macroeconomic. Banks such as NLB, NKBM or the merged Bank can only take over a major foreign bank or fund. Only major financial groups such as Croatia's Adris Group, which owns Croatia Insurance, can take over the insurance company Triglav or Sava Reinsurance. Petrol can only take over a larger oil company, such as the Hungarian Mol, which also took over Croatian Ino, and Telekom will eventually join Deutsche Telekom, who in Croatian and in Montenegro was mass-forgiving, and instead of investing in development, the company has exhausted its equipment supplies and other transfer prices. The point here is clear. If we privatise these companies, which are now independent – we are talking about the largest companies and financial systems in Slovenia – we will get branches from them. I repeat this lesson. Economically developed countries are not developed because they would have a large number of branches, but are developed because they are the headquarters of independent companies that hold back development, jobs and profits at home. Privatisation of the economy is therefore a provincialisation of our economy, our development, jobs and profits will flow abroad. Let me just give you an example from the banking system. Before 1995, the Slovenian banking system acquired the accumulation of the whole of Yugoslavia, and today most of the Slovenian accumulation flows to Austria. If we're going to stop this process, we're going to have to stop the privatisation. What is the alternative to poor governance and inadequate human resources policy? Foreign owners will not bring better personnel, that is clear from the cases we have seen in recent years. When Ring took over Helios, he appointed the chief director of finance. This was a reward for the fact that the old Director of Finance fired the workers under the old owner and was then rewarded with the position of Director. When Agrokor took over Mercator, he didn't change administration. All he did was appoint the former director of Croatian Telekom Mandzukić and son of Tycoon Todorovic, Antej Todorovic, to the Supervisory Board. The only long-term recipe for better management is to increase the impact of employees through codecision. This is the only counterweight to the interests of capital and political class. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the labour council works in each company and that workers have their representatives in the supervisory board and administration in all companies. But that's not enough. It is necessary to ensure the independence of employees' representatives from administrations and clients by protecting them from forgiveness and bullying. It is necessary to ensure the responsibility of working representatives to the company's collective and trade unions. It is necessary to prevent management from infiltrating these organs. We have included all the necessary solutions in the proposal for a new Act on the participation of workers in management, which you have already received at your addresses. If the administration of state-owned enterprises were responsible to employees and if the Government clearly defined public interests in each company, discussions on the poorer and worse opportunities for privatisation, as we have today, would become redundant. I repeat, we are talking about whether a society that is important for the whole country will be sold to Fund A or Financial Fund B, and we are only looking at the struggle between two different political interests after creating or empowering their own financial elites. This is not good for the country or even less for the citizens. The only solution that would be good for citizens is to stop the privatisation and to change the bad practices we have seen in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u11	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly, the distinguished Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, dear colleagues and colleagues! Events relating to recruitment in important Slovenian companies and a number of unjustified and unreasonable business decisions further reduce the country's already low confidence in the economy and transparency in the management of state assets. More than a billion and a half Slovenian citizens were invested in the New Ljubljana Bank two years ago. Today, the Slovenian State Holding Board of this Bank appoints people with reasonable doubts about the appropriateness and contradiction of interests. The management of the Slovenian State Holding Board has appointed Mr Anton Ribnikar as the supervisor of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank, even contrary to the position of the Slovenian National Holding Commission. The procedures for appointing supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank could at least be explained in part by the presentation of the minutes of the meeting of the Slovenian National Holding Commission, as proposed by the Christian Democrats at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Unfortunately, those responsible did not take advantage of this opportunity, which further casts shadow on the process of electing new supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank. In all things, we must not overlook the role of the Government, which, as the Assembly of the Slovenian State Holding, has the main word — not directly – in the recruitment of companies where the country has the dominant ownership stake. The government acts publicly as if it's none of her business. Apparently, the government thinks that if they do, there won't be a problem. The passivity of Dr. Marble’s financial minister, whose power has apparently weakened the affair with permanent readiness supplements, is also very eloquent. He appears to be morally bankrupt and unable to hit the table and prevent such recruitment. In this regard, New Slovenia will also propose amendments to the relevant legislation, where people who have participated in granting bad loans would be prevented from re-occurring responsible functions in the Slovenian banking system. This has already been regulated by some European countries, and in our view it is time for us to do the same. In the face of many unreasonable decisions, I should also point out the choice of a much worse bidder in the sale of Paloma. This is a classic example of a non-transparent procedure that raises questions about the motivation of the decisions taken. The decision to simplify the connection between Probank and Factor Bank, followed by extremely controversial liquidation, cannot in any way be an example of an economic, transparent management of the property of the State. Again, possible irregularities that may constitute damage to state property may be concealed. The debate on the search for responsible owners who would not allow such interventions has, in the meantime, fallen silent. Slovenia remains one of the countries with the highest level of state ownership in Europe, according to OECD data, while at the same time proving that it is not able to deal with this property in any way economically and transparently. According to the European Commission, the total economic costs of involving the country in the economy amount to as much as EUR 13 billion and EUR 6 000 600 per citizen. We are indeed proposing a study of the European Commission's report on the country of Slovenia for 2016. In New Slovenia, we express great disappointment that the government of Mira Cerar in the management of state property has not made a major breakthrough from the policy of so-called national interest in the past periods. Despite the promises made by Prime Minister Mir Cerar on higher ethical standards, there are completely unacceptable decisions in the management of state assets during his reign, which promise to deepen the gap in the Slovenian budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u13	The text is by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u14	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! If we have listened carefully to the debate so far, we can see that we all want transparent governance of state property. In the discussions, it was pointed out that the Government was responsible for state property. However, if we then listened to the Minister, we could hear that the Government only proposed SDH supervisors and that you, the Members who raised your hand, are responsible for what is happening in SDH. That is to say, if any responsibility is finally identified, the Government bears responsibility to the Members who raised their hand at that time. I have warned on the appointment of SDH supervisors that it is a premature decision and that we do not yet have all the data, or that the controllers meet the conditions to become and occupy this function. In the second, however, the Government takes responsibility for SDH and SDH supervisors. Thus, in their view, the Government is not responsible and will be accountable to everyone else. How can we manage state property? We have several ways. One's a cashier. We've transferred the monetary management to Frankfurt. There's nothing we can do here. Another way is through tax policy. We have seen that a minister, unfortunately not among us, has already proposed some tax reforms, a minimum package and so on, which has not been adopted. So we don't even manage countries through tax policy. How can we manage? The only thing we can manage is the assets we have in the SDH, DUTB and KAD troika. Here's the key to the problem. It's about choosing a management model. We can, for example, choose a regulatory model known to Germany, England and other old European countries, where we set up a legislative framework and then just monitor how the law is implemented. However, we know that laws are not enforced in our country and that such a model does not work. The second model is a development model where the country takes over management through development and itself runs such models, such as Asian tigers, in Korea we know a similar model with Hyundai and so on. What's happened to us? The government has developed a so-called fluid management model. Why fluid? Because it crawls through our hands. We lost our hands and, in fact, this property is managed by an elite, an informal network that manages this property through staffing, and we let it out of our hands. If we point out a few cases that have been exposed both to the committee and to today, we can see that the key to the problem — in addition to transparent staffing — is also who are the buyers of this kind of property that we are selling. We do not do customer analysis, but we can find out from the analysis that such buyers are not strategic partners, but they are unknown companies, they hand over mail many times, in tax havens or in countries where it is not possible to verify transparently who owns and who will take over the property. The point is that we need to analyse who the buyer is, what he's been doing, who these people are, how he's managed the assets so far, what happened to the workers in these companies and so on. However, we do not do this and subject ourselves to informal networks that identify a buyer who is not a strategic partner. Several times today and also on the Committee, it has been pointed out that the key problems related to asset management are, say, first of all, the NLB supervisory board. Among the 600 people, we have chosen those among whom some do not meet the conditions at all. Some submitted a certificate on the last day from the Association of Supervisors that they could be overseers. I wonder how and how they obtained this certificate. Some do not have a license, so-called fit & proper test, to be given by the Bank of Slovenia and the ECB. At this point, I wonder what will happen to the people who put such persons in office if they don't get that or that license. Are they going to step down? What's going on with SDH monitors? I warned you that once they performed, they did not meet all the conditions and that there would be a conflict of interest. We note that they must be eliminated repeatedly, there is a conflict of interest and this is not good for action. It was also not yet explained what was the transfer of Sava, d.d. from one company which is under the influence of the State, to SDH. I believe that it is probably because we have introduced certain provisions in the law for the DURB which are the buyer, and such strict provisions are not for SDH and are preparing purchases for a specific buyer. We also do not know who will answer and what will be the licensing system. This has been on the board several times. It is also pointed out by the State to strictly follow the principles of OECD corporate governance. I don't think they follow these principles. The State or Government, as one that has taken over the management of assets, must ensure that it creates governance policies. The second mechanism, which is most important, is the mechanism of responsibility. The government has not introduced these mechanisms because I do not see any of the supervisors responding or responding procedures being initiated at all levels of the control mechanisms. And the government's answer to Parliament. The government has returned this ball and said that it does not answer to Parliament, but that Parliament is responsible for the appointment of such supervisors. So instead of the government responding, it now points out to Parliament that they are guilty of adopting such a policy. I say that the government collects ostrich tactics, which means that it puts its head in the sand, but if any questions are raised on the committee, in the National Assembly or by journalists, it waits for the storm to pass and then goes on cheerfully. That's the problem right now. What is the prerequisite for managing this state property? The operation of the rule of law. It was at the functioning of the rule of law that we came to this fluid case of the rule of law where we have certain groups, the elites that we studied in the context of the German development project at the University of Wörzburg, where I taught, these are so-called bad informal institutions, among which are exposed to elite agreements and clienteleism. That is exactly what we are witnessing in these cases. If I finish. The government has tried to say in its presentation that it is the fault of those who point out mistakes, Whistleblowers and others if Slovenia’s ratings fall, not those who have recruited such people, which is why we have a problem. So it's like rolling responsibility on someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Tillen Christmas for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Government representatives, proponents, colleagues and colleagues! Today, on a proposal from a group of Members, we are discussing the management of state property, the bulk of which was entrusted either to direct ownership and management or to the management of the Slovenian State Holding. The assets owned or managed by SDH amount to as much as EUR 12 billion, i.e. the monitoring, special care and sensitivity of Members to the good functioning of this large system and the search for the possibility of improving its functioning in the future are more than justified. With regard to the functioning of the SMC Group in this mandate, it should be pointed out that in the National Assembly, after almost 25 years of more or less successful measures to regulate this area, we finally succeeded in adopting a comprehensive State Capital Investment Management Strategy in July 2015. With this broad notion of a number of meanings, which in the past, due to weak definitions, have often taken on a permissive aggregate situation, added concrete material and thus established a clear framework. Thus, the word "strategic" in the SDH Act and the later management strategy defines those investments which, in addition to economics, also achieve strategic objectives related to the management of State infrastructure, the provision of public services, security, development and others which take account of important social interests. In the case of such investments, the State must retain at least 50 % and one vote. The word "important" denotes those societies in which we want to preserve key development factors in the country. In such companies, the State must retain at least 25% and one vote. However, the last group, represented by the word 'portfolio', contains those investments which will pursue exclusively economic objectives and the minimum share of the State's ownership for them is not defined. In the management strategy, therefore, out of a total of 91 investments, 46 are classified as portfolios, 21 as important and 24 as strategic investments. The number of companies in each group does not say much, so let me point out that by weight or value, more than 70% of companies are classified as strategic in which the country has to maintain a majority equity share, about 20% between significant and around 10% among portfolios. We also argue that it is a matter of sale of state property. First of all, as we have repeatedly stressed, the quality of governance, and we stick to it. Why are the definitions and unequivocal classifications of investments in one of the three classes so important? Since the State as owner finally clearly and unequivocally tells everyone what it intends to do with its long-term capital investments. It thus fills the information vacuum and the thus far unpredictability of decision-making on management and sales with a clear and uniform signal to administrations, employees, business partners, investors and other stakeholders. We have thus embarked on the path of countries that are aware of the importance of active ownership and the care of their property, which can be significantly more successful in spite of the partial interests of individuals or groups whose objectives are very much different from those defined by the SDH Act, the management strategy and the annual management plan prepared by SDH on the above-mentioned grounds. The latter must pursue both financial and non-financial objectives, which are now predetermined and measurable, ensuring a higher level of resistance to current interest trends, political climate, daily developments and other short-term breath factors that could lead to forced decisions by capital investment managers, to the detriment of the long-term value of citizens' and citizens' assets. We have therefore laid the groundwork for the establishment of a system that brings responsibility and modern corporate governance to societies, whether directly or indirectly, of the State. This ensures, in particular, the conditions for the future development and growth of these companies and, consequently, a wide range of additional values for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in various fields. On these grounds and in the direction that we have adopted or endorsed within the framework of the legislative function of the National Assembly, the Executive Authority must from now on continue to act in a way that achieves the objectives set from year to year. An additional key step towards the successful management of state assets is the establishment of the SDH Supervisory Board, which we decided in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. We have taken a decision in the SMC Group on the basis of all the data available at the time and, at the same time, a careful examination of the various indications for which reliable information or tangible evidence was not available. Such appointments are inevitably accompanied by an extraordinary media and political storm, with relatively difficult to maintain clear thoughts due to violent attacks and the extensive flow of misinformation. Following the appointment of supervisors in the SMC, we maintain our attention and regularly monitor both the functioning of the SDH Supervisory Board and the developments that the SDH Administration is carrying out with its activities, as we believe that according to the trust we have shown by the votes "for" in the National Assembly, one way of maintaining confidence is precisely a critical consideration of the effectiveness of the action towards the implementation of the established strategy. In this regard, we also have our powers under Article 67 of the SDH Act in the National Assembly. This Article defines the annual reporting of SDH to the National Assembly, which must be based on company indicators, shall include disclosure of the performance criteria and their fulfilment. In the National Assembly, we can then adopt positions on SDH operations and investment management on the basis of the debates and clarifications that have been carried out, and we will, as so far as we have, actively cooperate and take into account constructive initiatives. We are also members of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission of the National Assembly entitled to a report prepared by SDH on a quarterly basis for the Government. Finally, Members of the SMC will monitor the functioning of existing legal solutions in practice on the basis of the data obtained and the findings obtained. Those who start to appear inadequate, ineffective or lacking will, of course, be addressed in accordance with the powers we have as part of the legislative branch. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, we have done the tasks entrusted to us as part of the legislative authority in accordance with the expectations of our programme and the coalition agreement. On the basis of the work done in the SMC Group, we rightly expect all those entrusted with powers to be linked to either management or control or other tasks related to the management of the country's capital investments in a broader sense, from the Government via SDH and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and others, to carry out their tasks in accordance with the applicable legislation and in such a spirit as they have been entrusted to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u17	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the management of the state property transferred by the Government to the Slovenian State Holding. In fact, this means that the Slovenian State Holding for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides a service – a service for the administration of state property. The government also pays the state-owned holding company for this service. The state holding company puts out an account and then gets paid for it. The most important issue is responsibility in such a way of managing. On the one hand, the government runs away from responsibility because it says that after all all the works are done by the Slovenian State Holding Company, which works politically, works transparently, works ethically, morally and so on. However, it is necessary to ask here whether this is the case and whether certain cases do not show exactly the opposite – that the Slovenian State holding company with the knowledge of the Government works untransparent, even ineffective in certain cases, unethical and also immoral. These are, of course, the attributes that, especially the last two, the Modern Centre Party has placed at the forefront of its operation. That's actually the way it is today. The examples we have show that we have some controversial sales of state property. Here we can name Paloma, we can name Adrio Airways, and we can also list certain transactions that have been made with the knowledge of the government, if not with the decision of the Government, such as the association of Factor Bank and Probank to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. On the other hand, we also have the Government's conclusions that, for example, Sava, d.d., is transferred from the Bank Management Company to the Slovenian State Holding. Those real reasons were never explained here. In particular, not because the Slovenian State Holding Company and the Banks Claims Management Company are doing the same activities today. By amending the law governing the Bank's Claims Management Company, the objectives of both companies have in fact been the same, that the purpose is the same and that, in fact, these two companies can today be merged, especially because both companies are engaged in a better operation with companies. The bank's claim management company was basically set up for something else. For this reason, the very efficiency of the government's operation and also the effectiveness of the functioning of all these companies that are actually performing today are being established here. There is certainly no way that the government can go beyond responsibility, especially with regard to personnel. The most important thing is, of course, that the Government, through the National Assembly, has set up the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. Of course, then all those who had certain questions and certain reservations certainly did not come so far as to be taken into account, but, after all, the National Assembly, here it is necessary to say that this was a coalition, determined such personnel. As a result, the coalition is also responsible for these personnel and with all other personnel. Even in the National Assembly, it is necessary to separate between those political groups, those parliamentary parties who on the one hand support a proposal and those who do not support such a proposal. There is a record of this, so it is not possible to generalise responsibility equally. This raises the question whether the management of state assets is actually under way in accordance with the governance strategy. Even if the Modern Centre Party and the Government are actually talking about some formal property management and that formal management is actually in line with the whole legislation, it is another thing that is in fact. The Asset Management Strategy does not say who should be sold by the Slovenian State Holding Company, it does not say so, but it is the Slovenian State Holding which is supposed to choose the best company for this company. Now we get to that real picture when we actually ask ourselves, is the sale of Paloma or Adrie Airways to the company that is specifically set up for this purchase – it is established by a financial holding company – the company that is the best partner or the best buyer for both companies is, of course, two different companies. The established company in a favourable tax environment – I will not say tax oasis because tax havens are mainly in countries other than the European Union – is set up with a few 10,000 euros and then, of course, buy a company with a loan from the parent company. Is this company – which probably does not have an employed staff, which in fact has only a seat and probably does not have a lot of cash – actually the most favourable company for a Slovenian production company. But this decision is taken by the Slovenian State Holding Board, in which the Supervisory Board established this coalition. And, of course, the board of directors has set up the board of directors. I don't think so. I think that if there is a better offer – in this case, if we are talking about Paloma, there is a better offer and that is why there are complications – then this is certainly not the most optimal option. We have the right to draw attention to this in the National Assembly, so I would like to point out that the Minister of Finance says that this is, of course, wrong. The Minister of Finance says that this has an impact on employment growth, that it affects Slovenia's reputation and so on, and that there is a need for Members and Members to shut their mouths and not talk about it in this Parliament about the sale of individual companies. If the Minister of Finance speaks the government's position, then this is a government position, if I so understand the government's position, extremely problematic because the Government is responsible to the National Assembly and there are members of the opposition who have the right to know. No one can and cannot take the right to know us, because after all we are responsible for the people whose assets SDH actually sells — citizens and citizens. There's actually a connection here. You can say that it is weak or strong, but this relationship still exists, so between citizens and citizens and power. This can be the only connection we are talking about today. Therefore, they have the right to know and therefore have the right to know in the environment where these people are actually employed. If we are talking about one of these companies, which we have talked about many times and which are already mentioned in public, then there is no such information in this case that would diminish Slovenia's reputation, the reputation of the Slovenian State Holding or this Government. Even worse, when the Slovenian State Holding through the Government gives EUR 3 million to society – EUR 3 million – EUR 200 000 – to sell this company for EUR 100,000 the next day. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if this is a good sale. Especially because I don't know if this buyer offers anything if he provides employment if he provides flights. But this is what the Slovenian State Holding is actually doing – not selling it to a strategic partner, not selling it to a financial holding company, but to a share established by a financial holding company in one of the European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if this is the best option. Maybe there's another better one. Maybe she's better. This transaction is certainly illogical as well. It is likely that citizens and citizens have the right to know that they will first invest more than 3 million in a society in order to sell this company for 100,000 euros. I don't know what's bothering the minister here if it's okay with him. Of course, the Secretary of State probably has a story about why it's good, why it's better than bankruptcy, or why it's better than anything else, how something will be preserved here, but it's not guaranteed. What this new buyer is going to do, we don't know. We don't know. Perhaps the government can guarantee that the new buyer has committed itself to this company for another five years. I don't know. I don't know. And so far, as this has been discussed on the Committees, on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, we have not actually received this assurance. We have a right to know. If we are talking about staffing and human resources policy, then we cannot go beyond the fact that new members of the Supervisory Board are being recruited into the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Let's look at history. From Mr Nik Kavčič onward, which in fact established the Ljubljana Bank in the 1950s – completely with a second purpose, however – and the then totalitarian authority established this bank, but never came to the supervisory council or the administration of the New Ljubljana Bank. Never. Someone may have come, but so most of them always had "real shots." Always. This has not happened in a day that no real staff would come to the New Ljubljana Bank. How is it now transparent for them to come to the New Ljubljana Bank of personnel who are conducting the final exam on the last day – in fact, it is not a exam at all, but they obtain a certificate that they have completed a course for supervisors? Here my opinion is slightly different, though not quite, from my colleague Vebra, about this education. This training for supervisors is free today, it's marketable. This education is carried out by anyone and carried out by a number of companies – I will not list them here – not just the Association of Supervisors. You have two kinds of education. One is called a three - month or some monthly education, where you are actually doing your exam, the other is that you are taking a two - or three - afternoon course and they give you a certificate. But I'm talking about this other education, this certificate. These supervisors got this receipt the last day. But they are acceptable to the Slovenian state holding company, they are acceptable to this government, they are acceptable to this coalition. If we forget at all what some of these members have done in the past and where they have worked in the past, I will not let that happen. In short, they were already in banking, they were bankers, and they were also in banks where a significant financial hole was caused, which the taxpayers actually then patched up. Now I'm talking about the Slovenian state holding company, that just here, I could say, has no happy hand in these matters. Among the 600 people he has in his records, I don't know if they're the best personnel. But it's definitely the right frame. The right personnel for those who, at a certain point in time, may receive or request certain information or make certain information not appear as transparent or as public information. That's what happened, if you read the development of the financial system in the previous country, you'll see that it's always been this way. With all agencies: AUKN, Court, Kad, SDH and so on. Of course, here we blind ourselves to the fact that we have come forward in the frame. We didn't come any further because they're recruiting others. It's sad that the Minister of Finance probably doesn't have a job today. Because he no longer has the authority to recruit, and he no longer has the credibility to employ. They're deploying networks, networks. We need to be clear here — any network. There are multiple networks in this country. They're probably a little bit specialized – finance, energy and so on. They're recruiting. Since the Minister of Finance is no longer able to negotiate with the trade unions and with the chamber – because he has put forward some proposals for tax reform, which was not even tax reform, but some theoretical desire for something that is not actually feasible, but with trade unions because it is difficult to negotiate, if you are paying yourself some allowances for being present somewhere. Of course, this also makes it easy for staff in the capital field to pass through it, as has been the case in the past. As a result, the real question is who is currently in charge of this coalition. No SDH, SDH does that thing, SDH gets names. If not otherwise, the responsibility of the National Assembly is, at least, to know what is going on in the country and to know what is going on with the taxpayer’s money, regardless of formal law and legislation. This is why this extraordinary meeting on the management of state property was convened today and therefore certain decisions not supported by the coalition have been proposed, although these conclusions relate to the need to manage in accordance with the OECD standards, which was obviously not good. In order to provide more precise data on certain sales of Slovenian companies to companies with relatively little capital and which are not actually known who is employed if anyone is employed. Due to the fact that the material also accurately shows where the underlying problems are under the current legislation, under the current governance strategy of this country with management. For if we are talking today about 12 billion taxpayers' assets – this is a book value, I think it is much less – we will talk in a little while about two billion of this property, in fact, especially if the New Ljubljana Bank is worth, for example, 800 million or 700 million, as some numbers appear in the public, that it will actually be worth it. With two, three years ago, taxpayers invested 2 billion or 1.5 billion in this New Ljubljana Bank, but even if we look at history, you will see that we have invested 8 billion in the last 25 years. To sell the Slovenian State Holding Bank for 700 or 800 million. Then that's the reality. A reality that just hits the taxpayers' pocket. That is why this National Assembly has the right to speak about the management of state property, if not for any other reason. By responding to this very current issue in Slovenia today in the way it responds – I will say here that more or less with indolence, more or less with monitoring, more or less with inactivity – is also a reflection of this action and this actually means how this coalition feels responsible for state property. We have proposed certain conclusions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, we still support them, we regret that there is no coalition. The coalition is also responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues, allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group. At the outset, it must be acknowledged that most of the pressing matters that are highlighted today have already been dealt with both at the meetings of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision and at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. A great deal of time has been devoted to their analysis and in-depth discussion, and so is the case. In our parliamentary group, we firmly believe that the parliamentary benches and the parliamentary speakers are the place where such debates and discussions are held, not the street and the "pogrom" statements for the various media. It is correct to point out in the National Assembly that any infringements may be expressed by expressing doubts as to the correctness, transparency or intransparency and the efficiency or inefficiency of both the operation and the staffing of state-owned companies. It's our common assets. It is a property that has been created for decades by our citizens and citizens. Many of them are in a well-deserved retirement today, for which a few-tenths of a percentage of harmonisation should not be taken into account because there is no funding for this. It's outrageous, but it's another time and on some other occasion. There are shared views on how this company was managed by the State. In principle, however, it is necessary to follow the principle that anyone who does not recognize past mistakes is condemned to repeat them in the future. However, in the Desus Group we are asked why we are discussing the same issues over and over again in this mandate, in the references to the meetings we often follow words such as: there is information in the media, there are rumors that are circulating, said to be, and so on. At times, however, the government has provided very specific and satisfying answers to most of this circulating information. The fact that the Government is in breach of the governance objectives set out in the strategy and does not comply with the OECD guidelines is, in our opinion, a mistake. Since Slovenia became a member of the OECD, only the current government has adopted the first Capital Investment Management Strategy in the country throughout its history. Although the regulatory framework was established in 2014 with the adoption of the SDH Act, only this Government was able to fully implement the law. This was recognised by both the OECD and the European Commission, which announced that its recommendation on the SDH strategy had been fully implemented. The SDH thus conducts state-owned capital investments in accordance with the principles of independence, transparency, economy, diligence and accountability, while the government and the National Assembly assess the effectiveness of managing on the basis of reporting and determining the achievement of financial and non-financial objectives. When we adopted or adopted the strategy, we also made it clear that it is living matter, which will change and complement, if necessary, rather than adapting hand-to-hand to the needs of day-to-day policy. Of course, after assessing the success of the Desus Group, we are not always satisfied with the decisions of the administrators. The response to the developments surrounding the appointment of supervisors at our largest bank, NLB, especially in the media, has not convinced us. The answer offered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is that the people in the banking sphere are in the system of so-called rotating doors and that it is difficult to get a person who is completely independent and independent, somehow they have not convinced us. I also cannot agree that only a handful of bankers are available in Slovenia, who are willing to take the most responsible places. However, we will, of course, closely monitor how the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank will be defined by appointment. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me point out here that the rules are very clear and are also clearly written. If someone here is wrong — both in the staffing system and in the management and sale system — that is, of course, the responsibility must be given. However, if anyone clearly knows about these irregularities, he must also make them known and act accordingly. In the Desus Group, government management is understood literally, especially as management and less than sales, not to say sales or sales. We oppose the sale of well-functioning companies of strategic importance, which would serve only the current filling of the small, read the budget. You know, chicks that carry golden eggs, you don't sell them, because then you're out of eggs – I mean, of course, those golds that this chicken carries. Colleagues and colleagues. In this light, we also see the upcoming establishment of the so-called demographic fund, which will keep abreast of the work – I wish that over the main work – state property and through its management over time to co-finance the obligations of pension, disability insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity. Such intergenerational solidarity as we will not have to be ashamed. The fund will first and foremost nominate its assets, but will not sell it for the purpose of producing only one single income. With regard to information on the re-increasing of the salaries of government managers, I would like to say just the following. At the time of tightening the fiscal belt and with the handcrafting statements, when you give money for the coordination of the employees – once again, I stress, the benefits – and the pensions earned, as well as transfers for wages, transfers to individuals and households, we cannot afford the idea of a salary increase in the Desus Group. It seems to us, to say the least, inappropriate, distasteful and unhygienic. Finally, on this occasion, the state-owned owners would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in the case of a state-owned company and for sale, the possibility of a labour buy-in as the best incentive measure is carefully considered. We see internal ownership of employees as one of the most sustainable forms of modern entrepreneurship, as some kind of alternative or counterweight to rapid privatisation and sale on just one scale, this is at the optimal price. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. A representative of the Magi's proposer made his first appearance. Marco Pogačnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Following the presentation of all the views of the parliamentary groups, I am even more confident that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have made more than justifiably this call for an extraordinary meeting on the management of state property. I do not think that in any of the positions of the Group of Members these statements and irregularities have been denied. The fact is that, I think, in their position, the sociodemocrats followed exactly the proposal of the second recommendation we made, to verify the appropriateness of the asset management strategy and that the government comes with a new one. At least that's how it was meant to be. Desus, I think, has also mentioned certain things in which he draws attention to systems and decisions that could be better. It seems to me that only the Modern Center Party was more than selling that myth of ethics and morality, at least 180 degrees from which she turned what she promised before the elections. However, even in the Modern Centre Party, not one matter has been denied, which we have been alerting or referring to. At least to me, it was a worrying position presented by the Minister of Finance as a government position, because after one threat received by the President of the National Assembly in interpreting Erjavac, who said that this poses a great threat to the country, we have heard today, by the Minister of Finance, that the opposition, by calling an extraordinary meeting on the management of state assets, poses a threat to foreign investors and that we are reducing Slovenia's credit ratings abroad. I think that this statement has exceeded all the limits of good taste, and above all all the limits of democracy. Dear Government, distinguished President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the Peace Cerar coalition, do you still need the opposition? Because you rejected everything the opposition has proposed a while ago, but now you have taken a step further by stating that what the opposition is proposing is already dangerous for the country and that we are weakening Slovenia's reputation abroad. I think this has really exceeded all the limits of good taste and all the limits of democracy in Slovenia. Do you even know what you're saying? If someone missed a visit abroad to foreign investors, it was the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition – the modern centre, SD and Desus – on the occasion of the sale of Telekom. Military Intelligence was listening to foreign investors and foreign potential investors. You are embarrassing this Slovenia and driving away foreign investors, without now getting yourself into the opposition, that with one reference to an extraordinary meeting, when we point out all the risks, to all the risks, and say that this reduces the ratings of the Slovenian country abroad and drives away foreign investors. The Minister of Defence should have resigned for the sale of Telekom. Name one country of the European Union or one country in which the government of parliamentary democracy, which, due to irregularities, had to withdraw from the sale of state property. Give it to me! She's not here. And you say that the opposition poses a threat to the state and a threat to democracy. No coalition party has denied these irregularities in its position. Do you really think of economic, ethical and moral recruitment as part of the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank when you name people who have been employed in this system for almost 40 years? At least for the opposition, these people pose a great risk of cooperation and that they are also responsible for the bank hole and that your key purpose of appointing these people is primarily to cover up certain issues, certain irregularities – especially in the field of subsidiaries and subsidiaries of Nova Ljubljanska Banka in the area of former Yugoslavia, Switzerland, Germany – now hide and sweep under the carpet. Because these people who had important cities, probably even the most responsible, in subsidiaries and subsidiaries, you have now been appointed to the supervisory board of the Ljubljana Bank. The government says he has nothing to do with it. An interesting opinion, an interesting position, but on a proposal from the Government and with the help of coalition Members and Members, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding was appointed. This means that all decisions taken by the Slovenian State Holding Board, both supervisory board and management, are at least indirectly responsible for both the Government of Mir Cerar and the Coalition Members. I am still convinced that the government's President, Dr. Miro Cerar and Finance Minister Dr. Marble, are the most responsible for the management of state property. Who has the reputation of Slovenia abroad or with foreign investors? I think that among them we could also list the Secretary of State of Mr Draganjo, who lied on the Tarč show, who explicitly said that the Bank of Slovenia had requested the exchange of one of the members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. The Secretary of State was caught lying, Banka Slovenije denied the case. The government has never explained the reasons for the change of management of the Slovenian State Holding. As we say, the legitimate right of the government is to set up its own people. However, in view of the promises made mainly by the Modern Centre Party before the elections, we are convinced in the proposing group that this deviates from ethics and morality. At least tell us the reasons why you decided to change the leadership of the Slovenian State Holding Board, why you hid the members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, why you revealed them only ten minutes before the meeting of the Assembly, although we know that the Assembly was universal and that the State and Slovenian State Holding are in control of the New Bank of Ljubljana 100 percent. Also interesting were developments regarding the disclosure of some of the information made by the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, namely that he was a member of this Supervisory Committee. Barbara Smolnikar is eliminated in the vote on the New Ljubljana Bank because she is the president of the company management, whose owner or shareholder is Nova Ljubljanska Banka at 50%. We have already warned the opposition of all these matters in the appointment of the Supervisory Board. I would like to know whether, in view of this disclosure by the President of the Supervisory Board, you will use Article 46 of the Slovenian State Holding Act and propose the resolution of the Magi. Barbara Smolnikar from the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding since it has now been clear that there is a major conflict of interest here. In his position, the Minister of Finance mentioned that we are acting in accordance with the OECD guidelines, and the Government must not interfere with the management and decision-making of the Slovenian State Holding Authority. The well-respected minister has left. I also think that this suggests the Minister's attitude towards the administration of state property, that he is not present as the most responsible person at the meeting of the National Assembly, nor was he present at the Commission's meeting to oversee public finances. My only explanation is that he's afraid. To be afraid to come before Members and Members and answer questions, he always sends his Secretary of State. The Minister of Finance said that the Government does not interfere that the authorities or management bodies of the Slovenian State holding company are independent. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding said that he had been at least twice or three times in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Keseljjevic. If they are an independent, respected Secretary of State, why does the President of the SDH Supervisory Board go to the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? He admitted it himself at the board meeting. Then why did you, as a Government, make a recommendation to the Capital Society not to accept the takeover bid for Perutina Ptuj? Just as it suits you. You were afraid to make a decision with Telekom, but you like to dictate other decisions. We, in the opposition and also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, have already warned in amending the Slovenian State Holding Act that this change, when state ownership is not transferred to holding, will lead to exactly the situations that we are referring to now. This means that the Slovenian state holding company will not manage it, but that the government will only manage it. There's something else about time, Mr. Secretary of State and Government. Come before the public and before the Members and Members and tell them. Why were the supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank hidden, why did the President of the Supervisory Board go to the Cabinet of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, why did you choose names for members of the NLB Supervisory Board, who have a deep history in the management of at least subsidiaries and subsidiaries? What is your opinion on the conflict of interest, as stated by the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding with Mag. Barbara Smolnikar to be voted out? Why did you make such a non-transparent connection between Factor Bank and Probank to DUTB? Why did you do this without serious audits without revealing serious balances? It should be warned that we have already saved two private banks here. Why does the Bank Management Company need the new 100 employees who are now being transferred from Probank and Factor Bank? Why did you decide to get the Bank's Claims Management Company a new mission by amending the law? That they are now also in charge of restructuring companies, that we have two state-owned owners – on the one hand the Slovenian State Holding on the other hand the Company for Bank Claims Management. DUTB has got an additional 100 people now with this connection to Probank and Factor Bank, and on the other hand we see that DUTB is happily hiring some house advisers. Admetam – four million advisory contracts have already been signed, and they have now made a slight move. But those companies that are under the umbrella of the DUTB are determined which advisors are to take. They exhaust Slovenian companies: Cimos, Alpino and others. There are a lot of things, and I am sure that there has never been such a bad governance of state property as is under the current government of Mira Cerar, in the history of Slovenia itself. SMC refers mainly to the historical act that you have adopted a strategy for the management of state property. We have already warned you about the traps and weaknesses this strategy has. However, please respond to the indications that we are stating that you are in breach of the key objectives and the key mission of the State Property Management Strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. There is another candidate, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u24	Colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija, we are co-signors of this meeting due mainly to the fact that this country has not had or has not known this country in the past. The networks are in fact no longer hidden at all, but they employ themselves to positions of responsibility in state-owned enterprises or in companies where the state has an influence. As ruthlessly as our country knows today, it has not yet been. I'll say something below. This is why such meetings are extremely welcome, not only to talk, but mainly for the ruling coalition and ministers and the government to finally tell why they support those who once participated in the so-called bank robbery or any other such and other nonsense that has occurred in the past. Why does the government insist on one and the same personnel that sway through the Slovenian banking system after state property? The government as a congregation is responsible. Alarms of something going very badly wrong with the framework appear daily and chew daily. There is no real response to these alarms, even more, the government and the coalition are just squirming, looking away, when networks and backgrounds are manning. But just because you're looking away doesn't mean you're not responsible. You're responsible. When this misappropriation may eventually arise – I do not want it to be created – an even bigger bank hole, this ruling coalition will be the one who will be responsible. All that has been happening in the recent period in the New Ljubljana Bank, including the appointment of new supervisors, is the responsibility of the ruling coalition. Change of leadership of SDH. It all started with this story and today some journalists are reporting it, we are still waiting for a so-called record or a magnetogram of this famous SDH supervisory board meeting to see how this change of administration of the Slovenian State Holding Board took place. That record's not there yet. Tell me why. Do you, honourable Members of the ruling coalition, not care what happened at this meeting? Don't you care? Some even suggest that this magnetogram is not available at all, despite the legal provisions. It is not a problem if SDH is to be replaced, it is not a problem at all, as the Government must be staffed in accordance with the OECD guidelines. Problem is, the ex just switched with. Who? They were replaced by those who had once participated in the formation of a bank hole, the granting of unsecured loans. He's selling Paloma and Adrie. Palomo and Adrio were sold to postal collectors who were established two days before the invitation to tender. It's very strange for me, it's a very speculative investment. Isn't it for you? What hands did we sell these companies in? Company in Cyprus, tax oasis. We say, it's all right, we're not responsible. We are responsible because you set up the Slovenian State Holding. As Paloma is, so is Adrio. But the worst and the highest level of low-level staffing is undoubtedly the appointment of the new supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank. You've pulled certain people out of the naphthalenes that have been involved in the bank since 1972 in all the holes that have been made around the world. And these people will again carry out or supervise the management of the largest Slovenian bank. I expose three people who were once in the New Ljubljana Bank. Tell me how citizens who trust in the banking system – at least because they have their nutritional roles in banks – should trust in the banking system, but they do not trust the people you employ. Here's the problem. How can people trust these people who have already put the bank on its knees at least three times so that it will not be repeated for the third or fourth time? How can we trust a fox not to come to our hen for the third time? I don't trust people like that to control the management of the biggest state bank. The Human Resources Commission is expected to even evaluate one of the members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank in a negative way, as it did not meet three conditions: First condition – knowledge of foreign language, English. The second condition — he was once responsible in Montenegro, where there was also a big hole and there was not enough time since he was in Montenegro until he was appointed overseer. There is a suspicion of corruption here that, as a supervisor, he could also influence these transactions that he had in Montenegro. This is what the Human Resources Commission is supposed to point out to SDH, and the SDH administration has appointed this person to the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Then what happened? Since one of the members of the SDH Human Resources Commission explicitly opposed this, this member of the SDH Personnel Commission resigned as a member of the SDH Personnel Commission. Then they say to SDH that for personal reasons. Yeah, for personal reasons, because they can't participate in what's going on. Doesn't that seem suspicious in this country? Please. So those people, the individual who helped or was in positions of responsibility in Montenegro, are being recruited. Mr. Macuh – the media has written a lot about him. For 7 years he led a company from the Nova Ljubljanska banka group in Switzerland, and this company Nova Ljubljanska banka in Switzerland was one of the major holes in the New Ljubljana Bank. This gentleman has been different in the entire structures of the New Ljubljana Bank since 1972. Since 1972. I haven't spoken since 2002, but since 1972. This hole was also repaired by taxpayers. Tell me where the reasons for the recruitment of such individuals who have already built their entire career in the New Ljubljana Bank were proved in the responsible positions when the bank hole took place. But to understand the full complexity of the personnel, as far as Mr Macuh's supervisor is concerned, the following. Mr Macuh was also the supervisor of the New Ljubljana Bank between 2010 and 2012, in the period when Nova Ljubljanska Banka was still – by the way, the President of the Supervisory Board, Mr Simoneti, the head of the management board of the DUTB – providing unsecured loans when the Chief of Staff Board was the Chairman of the SDH administration, Mr Jazbec. Look at the fragment. The circle is complete. But you don't find anything suspicious. I'm not saying this for myself. I'm saying this for the high school kids who are here, who are gonna have to pay for this drink. The wrong human resources decisions of this government will not have to be paid by my generation, but by an even younger generation. Because they've been known to top positions as people who've been roaming the banking system for 40, 50 years. During this period when Mr Macuh was in charge, credits were also given to Savi and Vegrad, but no criminal charges were filed on his part for unsecured loans back in that period. Is anyone sitting because of this period? Nobody. So we have a bank hole, we have it from these same gentlemen, but we don't know who the perpetrators are. It's like getting someone shot in Presher's square, and we say the shooter isn't. We're doing the same thing around here. However, it is also obvious that the license of the Association of Supervisors, which is necessary for someone to be able to perform functions in the supervisory council of the New Ljubljana Bank, has been obtained by two of the newly appointed two days before the assembly. Attention, two days before the assembly. So you already knew you were going to be named. That's logical, but two days before the assembly they won it, and one was extended in early February this year. But, look, the last exam period for the license was 8 December 2015. Can this be called even more openly? To conclude, these meetings are very welcome because on one side of the ruling coalition or of Members of the ruling coalition, I really do not understand how they support such a low profile – not at all a low profile, I apologize – or such an open balinian recruitment. I would understand if you had any of this if the ruling coalition had any of it, if SMC Members had any of it, but you don't. Of this, there is only a certain part of this country's networks, but it has a lot of it. That's why I don't understand why you're silently supporting this kind of work and actually not just selling it out, but opening a new bank hole that shows up. For he who once worked together created, was part of the banking system, and was in favour of the formation of the bank hole that we had repaired, in my firm belief, should no longer sit in these responsible positions. In Germany, they have legislation in this direction and I predict that Nova Slovenije will go to amend the legislation. I ask you now to support that those who have made a bank hole have been in corporate administrations when a bank hole was created, never to sit in bank administrations again. Never again, for this is the only way to ensure that no eggs or chickens leave the chicken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u26	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. A nice greeting from my representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The issue of governance of state property, which we are also dealing with today, is one of the very topical and ongoing issues that we have addressed on a regular basis in recent months, both in the competent working bodies – the Commission on Public Finance Control, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy – as well as in plenary sessions. These totals of more than 30 hours of discussions in recent months have given different views and aspects on the management of state assets on the one hand and, on the other hand, have given us the opportunity to be competent, both by the Government and by the SDH State Asset Manager, to explain certain procedures, to provide answers within their respective competences regarding the procedures they are conducting. Let me say here, at the outset, that I am not going to define myself directly to the individual decisions that the manager makes on a daily basis, to the individual transactions that it carries out within its competences, nor do I have all the business correspondence, nor do I have the complexity and complexity of all these procedures probably go beyond my knowledge of this type of problem. Another time. As a Member of the National Assembly, I am also probably not competent to intervene in such decisions or to define in any way the individual transactions that this time the national asset manager takes and leads. However, I would like to give one look at today’s topic — governance of state property. If I start in 2010, when Slovenia became a member of the OECD. A member of the organisation of the most economically developed countries of the world had to implement certain recommendations in line with the OECD Guidelines on Corporate Governance of State-owned Companies. Among other things, the adoption of the law to establish centralisation of governance was essential, the adoption of the Corporate Governance Code and the adoption of the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy with an accompanying classification. At the time of admission to the OECD, Slovenia had the administration of the country's capital investments managed by various ministries, then established the Agency for Capital Investment Management and Management under the concept of the Slovenian State Holding Act 2012, which did not come to life. In 2014, the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was legally in line with the OECD recommendations, was adopted and the current government was able to fully implement this law, namely in 2015 we appointed new members of the SDH Supervisory Board, we adopted the State Capital Investment Management Strategy, the Government adopted an annual management plan and criteria for measuring the performance of state-owned companies. In this way, in my view, we have developed a comprehensive system for managing companies owned by the State. It is also crucial in this system that SDH operates independently, regardless of daily, such or other political pressures. This is also in line with the OECD guidelines, which do not apply only to the Government, but also to the state and policy at large. It is now necessary to work on the systematic application of this strategy, thereby raising the level of corporate governance throughout the whole of state-owned enterprises – and not just in SDH – throughout the country. It is important to me here, very important and essential that state-owned companies have such supervisory boards, such supervisory authorities acting in the interests of society and effectively oversee management without unnecessary political interference. This is also the purpose of the SDH Act, the main objective of which is to separate the country or policy from the management of state-owned companies. As I said, the government has adopted a strategy endorsed by this National Assembly, a further annual plan and a criterion for measuring the performance of companies with the capital investment of the country, and on a proposal from the Government, we have also appointed the SDH Supervisory Board in the National Assembly. At that time, we took a decision to confirm the Supervisory Council, on the basis of all the information we had available. We did not have such evidence to verify the data from these evidences, which would have opposed the fact that the candidates were suitable for this function. In doing so, the role of policy in the appointment of the Supervisory Council in the manner that I have said when we have carefully and thoughtfully named it, in the day-to-day corporate governance, ends. The achievement of all the objectives set out in the strategies and acts adopted is from now on the task of SDH. On all these bases, SDH manages state investments, and the Government and the National Assembly assess the effectiveness of managing on the basis of reporting and determining the achievement of both financial and non-financial objectives set out in the management acts identified on the basis of the criteria adopted. The report to the National Assembly shall specify Article 67 of the SDH Act, which provides for annual reporting to the National Assembly and quarterly reporting to the Government and the Commission for the supervision of public finances. In my view, then, it is time and space for us to discuss the achievement of the objectives, both financial and non-financial, as well as the overall management and operation of SDH as such when adopting these reports. Once we have dealt with such reports, we have the opportunity to ask all the relevant questions in the report, from our competence, to raise a particular issue, to take certain decisions as guidelines or proposals to the Government, which can then take action on this basis. In my view, these frameworks are properly laid down and it is probably now time for us to allow the competent to carry out the commitments and objectives that have been set for them. As I have already said, I will not define myself into the specific cases cited here by the applicant, but perhaps there is something else about staffing. On the basis of all media information, including misinformation, some flat-rate convictions, warnings, including what has been pointed out in the media and within the National Assembly, I do not intend to comment excessively, since we have already received certain answers in all the debates so far. For me, these flat-rate statements, flat-rate media publications, which may be correct, do not provide sufficient evidence to confirm here the decision proposed by the proposer, namely that the Government violates the principles of corporate governance. Nor can I discuss, decide, judge and even judge these flat-rate statements easily. Here certain people, or experts in our fields, are discredited both at personal and professional level. I believe that this is not my job within Parliament, because I do not have individual documents alone, I do not have information on all past powers, powers, responsibilities of these people, which some attribute to certain networks, to octopuses. If anyone has such evidence at his disposal, it is appropriate to submit it to the competent authorities, who will also take action. How much someone contributed to the bank hole and how many individuals participated in the credit decisions, I think this must be proved first before we judge or condemn it. Probably not all of us can explicitly see the creation of a bank hole on the basis of all these statements that we have heard in these discussions today. It does not seem appropriate for us to look from man to man within Parliament for what he is guilty of, what powers he has, because we also have in this country an institution, we have the SDH Personnel Commission, the SDH administration, because if we are to decide and judge here, we do not need it. On the other hand, other institutions such as the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Securities Market Agency, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which are representatives of the public interest, operate in our country. If they identify certain facts and circumstances that would demonstrate the suspicion of damage to the Republic of Slovenia in one way or another, they shall propose the initiation of specific audits and the initiation of indemnification proceedings against individual authorities or members within those bodies in order to protect the property of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true, however, that I also expect that both SDH and the Government and all these other institutions will finally begin to exercise their powers in full, and the same goes for us in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Let's get Mr. Franz Ly ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u28	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I think we have a key topic on the agenda today, which the National Assembly must also deal with. This is about how we will manage our common assets. I think it is not enough to point out that out of all the 10 billion that the country is supposed to have at its disposal, virtually every year we get around, over the thumb, 50 million euros, which, according to our assessment, is very little. If anything, past practice has always proved that the country was not the best national asset manager. I don't mean to get carried away here, I think there's every policy here, both left and right, always itchy fingers, that one way or another she interfered with the management of state-owned enterprises. Someone thinks it's normal. I don't think it's normal. I think that this kind of intervention in the management of state-owned enterprises, or such political intervention in the management of state-owned property, is particularly damaging to these companies. Why the damage? Because it seems to me that such political interventions in state-owned enterprises are always, or often are, irrational and uneconomic, because they are being intervened in order to ensure that certain transactions are provided to circles that are close to certain political options, not to help businesses to act better and to create a new work target. Therefore, at least in New Slovenia, we often point out that if anything, then in politics we are responsible for finding responsible owners for state-owned companies. Unfortunately, today the country is not a responsible owner. Who exactly is the owner responsible? I think that the one who will develop the company in such a way that it will create new jobs. How is that gonna happen? I think every company has to invest all the time in development to develop its products. If he's developing his products, he's got a chance to sell them. If he sells them, he makes a profit, and that's what he can ultimately create a job. If it does not invest all the time in development, then it can happen that at some point the company stays for competition and eventually fails. Just look at the case of Scandinavian Nokia, how a highly advanced technology company was practically behind competition at some point and the success stories were over. I don't want anything like this to happen to Slovenian companies. For this reason, at least in New Slovenia, we are all talking about finding responsible owners. However, the responsible owners may be workers who buy the company, either as domestic managers or as foreigners. The worst part is the political governance of the economy, as we have seen today. Although this government coalition, and in particular the largest government party, has come to power also with a promise of a different operation, after limiting as regards the interference with self-management of the economy, I think that practice shows that you have gone exactly the same way as all your predecessors have done so far. A colleague who had discussed before me talked about the fact that there is virtually no evidence that these state-owned companies are being mismanaged or that there is no political intervention. But what would be your answer if we proved, for example, that Secretary of State Keseljjevic was meeting regularly with SDH Belic? What kind of comment would that make? Would it then be illegal political intervention, or would it be, as you say, to give instructions to the Government on a regular basis to its authorities or to its institution in which direction certain undertakings should be managed? I think that these two gentlemen are not meeting because I would like to see an undertaking run in this direction or in that direction, but because they want to be provided in certain companies or to come to certain companies with a specific staff. I think that this is a bad thing, and it is a mockery of all the commissions that this country has set up to assess and select professionally individuals and certain personnel who would be adequately qualified to manage state-owned enterprises. One thing that always or very often lies on my soul is that if you have on our side, that is to say, on the right, very intensely defending that, but for all these state-owned companies, we should finally find responsible owners who will manage these companies properly and have politics withdraw from this process, you have on your or on your left a very intense argument that ownership is not a problem at all, that it is essential governance. I think that this was also the main issue of Mr Jankovic, the current Ljubljana mayor, who has always claimed that the problem is not ownership, but management. If there is any truth in this thesis or in these words, then we can check it immediately. If the problem is governance, then let's really gather all state ownership under one roof, make an international call, find the best global manager for this, and pay these people by efficiency. Many people think it's science fiction, but I read stories from Romania. In Romania, they were in a situation similar to ours, namely, state-owned companies were politically staffed, they were creating losses, they had a bunch of problems until they made an international call, they got a foreign manager, and all of a sudden these companies, state-owned enterprises, so the country still owns these companies, they do profit and they do business very well. Not only do they keep jobs, they even make profits and they develop. And if the idea that there is a management problem was a sincere desire to improve this management, then we would really collect all the assets and put them in charge of the best operator on the international call. Because that is not true, because this sincere desire is not there, and because it is clear that there will be a competition in governance, which will be the staff that will meet the key positions in SDH, which manages this state property, it is clear that this is not about how these companies will succeed, but primarily about who will control the cash flow of these companies and who will be there when transactions are concluded between state companies and certain private companies. I think that's the whole story. Some of you can nod off, but practice shows this literally and absolutely nothing else. Go take a look at the SDH case in the last period. A truly difficult person understands that in all the people available to Slovenia, we place the people responsible for the Slovenian bank hole in key positions. They are responsible that I will be very exact in terms of expression. How can the opposition understand this or, if you want, how else can simple, ordinary people understand this, that someone who previously approved credit, for whom we will all have to look deeply into the pocket and pay dearly for bank recovery, now this same person comes to the top of the Slovenian State Holding and manages ten billion Slovenian assets. I mean, these stories are really hard to understand. And it is difficult to explain them when it comes to the fact that, with all the staff that Slovenia has, there is no one but you. I will trust the government coalition and all those who say that the problem is simply the management of state property, not ownership, only when we gather all this state property under one roof and find the best manager across our borders and pay it by efficiency. Only then will I be able to honestly believe that this is about management, not about controlling the cash flow. Most likely, this debate today, as it seems, will not contribute to a major shift, but I hope that it will at least soften the government coalition a little bit in the sense that we can see some mistakes in order to see perhaps a slightly broader context and not just stubbornly insist on reading the current positions or reading the current SDH leadership, but they are not interested in everything else. Changing the behaviour and attitude of the government coalition towards these issues is only the first step in a series of steps towards making more of the state assets.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. Get Dr. Laszlo Gönch ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u30	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! When we adopted the Slovenian State Holding Act, when we adopted the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy as a strategic document, and when we practically chose and assumed responsibility for supervisors, I thought we were on the right track and we did everything we could to secure corporate governance in accordance with the OECD guidelines and our expectations. That no longer the state's burden on the state budget, but that the state's assets will have positive public financial effects. We can't say nothing happened. Something has moved, but given all the information available, we cannot be satisfied with all that we have learned. In particular, I will focus on one example: Nafto Lendava. I've been to the State Secretary's office for an interview, and I've been informed that he's appointed director of Nafta Lendava. In view of the fact that I did not detect any public invitation or invitation to tender by the Slovenian State holding company under which this company is managed, I turned to the competent authorities in the State holding company. I got information that there really wasn't a public invitation to tender because the acts didn't require it. Your Honor, today I wouldn't have even called if I hadn't seen this case. This certainly does not indicate transparent functioning and staffing within SDH. In this case, I do not think all possibilities have been given to all those who could be at least that much or perhaps even more competent to carry out this task. We must be aware that these companies, in addition to having their industrial infrastructure, also have or operate natural resources. Therefore, I am often confused by the fact that the Slovenian State holding company manages 12 billion assets. Maybe, but since we don't have any data on the value of natural resources, from geothermia to natural gas and so on, I'm not going to list it all, we can ask ourselves. I think this is a very great development potential, and I hope that things will turn out this way, so that we will be able to take advantage of this very large development potential, which is still lacking at this moment, both in the creation of new jobs and in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz, to prepare Mr. Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In its implementation today, Mr Maramor stressed in some context that today's debate may be harmful, particularly in terms of how external entities and the professional public assess the situation in this area. In this regard, I could also say, to some extent, but on the other hand, it is almost imperative to stress that we are far from satisfied with the solutions that are in hand in this area, so I do not think that the debate is too much. However, it is certainly bad, at least in my opinion, that there is no minimum consensus in drawing political views on this issue, which, in my opinion, is an extremely important issue, perhaps the most important at this point. I am also to some extent sorry that there are no conclusions after such discussions. The proposed conclusions may not have been the best, but they may need to be corrected, but the message would certainly be much more influential and clear if a decision had been taken after such a discussion. But the point is that I personally expected the coalition to have more happy hands in the system and also in the actual corporate governance regime, and in particular in the human resources issues related to appointments to institutions that manage social property. Unfortunately, at this point, I cannot at any time confirm or argue that this is so, because, in fact, in every case or almost every case — in every appointment, in every process — there is a personal problem, for systemic or other reasons. We may also be able to see the problem of still bringing ourselves some negative stereotyped stuff from the past, from that distant past, so I'm talking about another system, probably also from the first period of privatisation, but nevertheless I think that we should go beyond certain things today, in 2016. Slovenian state holding company, DUTB and KAD should enjoy the company's high trust, but unfortunately that is not the case. People do not practically believe in these institutions in which we should believe most and which we should most trust. I will not repeat what the forerunner of our Premature End pointed out before me, Mr Laj, but the fact that we saw very concretely with Nafta that the SDH's decisions were very controversial and critical – not only the last one mentioned by Mr Laj, that is, the appointment of the current director, but also the previous SDH decisions concerning oil – and they have led to the situation in which this company is now. But I'm not getting into this. In short, I believe that, in these matters, it must finally reach a section and that the Government, which as the executive branch of power, is practically the most responsible for moving forward in this area, must gain not only the trust of society, but must also show the right decisions. I'm sure that's what he wants, I don't believe that any kind of trouble would work on purpose. This is not the case, but somewhere, as has already been said today, these networks, these lobbying or whatever we're talking about, unfortunately, are still too far behind, so there's still no breakthrough. Unfortunately, however, it is society that is losing, and especially the part of society that is most vulnerable. I wish and hope that without the conclusions of such a debate, at least a little will help to move the matter forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Managing social property is a very grateful topic, both for the left and for the right, and, of course, for us to get negative black points, how we don't manage anything and we don't know anything. Okay, I'll take that as well. But I have to start somewhere at the beginning. As far as social property management is concerned, it is not good if Kad is staffing or managing, is not good if he manages or employs the Court, is not right and is not good if he recruits Kas, is not right and is not good if he recruits the AUKN, and, of course, is not right and is not good if he recruits SDH. We all get involved in everything and we all know everything, there are many individuals here among us who have had the power, the honor and the opportunity to do so in the past. The fact is that the current government has received this structure of twelve billion and more to manage, so some steps have to be taken. It should also be said that since 2010, when we received instructions or when the OECD has instructed us that Slovenia should finally do something or write a state property management strategy, this government has not been able to do so far. So this government has at least some small merit that it has done something in this direction, that it has made a management strategy and that it has been made. Far from being okay. I'll take that. At the same time, as Urska has said before, I call for every individual who is here in or outside the National Assembly to report to the investigating authorities, even if they are crimes. What I personally want may seem naive too, is that politics would withdraw from the economy. This will be difficult, but that is why SDH is, so SDH has its policy, its strategy, has the objectives to be achieved, and is therefore the responsibility of the administration and the supervisory board set by the Government. Let me mention or recall only that there is also a KPK member on the SDH Human Resources Commission. I admit that certain SDH choices raise doubts, including for me. I think that all of our fellow Members in the Group are not satisfied with certain procedures, but that is the case. However, we must want and direct that SDH itself chooses and, as in sport, itself gets the respect of fellow players on the ground and with this respect also gets its place with work and with the way it works. Sometimes we do feel that it is intentional — whether it is political or it is media — to develop and undermine the DUTB or SDH. But this also indirectly reduces the value of these companies, makes it impossible for them to function normally, and causes such and different pressures that are mostly unfounded, but are just pressures. What is a major handicap in Slovenia is indeed this low, weak human resources base. Let me finish. Where does politics go and where does the profession go? I think that's a fundamental question. The government has an influence on the SDH and SDH supervisory boards. The National Assembly and the Government have an impact on the strategy, both on the annual plan, tasks and objectives. These are now clearly written. It is said that the framework is set and is clear. Further business decisions taken with all responsibility, both materially and criminally, place SDH's administration at a point where there is no turning back. In my opinion, Parliament may have a little too much to deal with each individual staff or business policy of the latter, which is not a task, but, as it is said, is responsible for this SDH administration, which must bear all the burden, all the consequences and possible merit. No marriage or strategy has made a person responsible, honest, or honest. The great responsibility they have here, which I must stress, is the supervisors. So far, no one has been criminally accountable from the supervisory boards. Once this is resolved, all these supervisory councils will function as it should. It is therefore a matter of some fundamental trust or lack of trust in the institution. As I can see, the main problems in today's debate are: item one — staffing, item two — corporate governance, item three — political privatisation, item four — lobby. If I round all this up, I'm trying to get around this strategy somehow. There are doubts, there are a variety of conspiracy theories, but let's try to move this unfortunate policy out of the economy, and I hope that then SDH will breathe and start doing what needs to be done. By not forgetting, he has all the responsibility and will be responsible for all the wrong moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome! Today's session is extremely important. Why? Because for a long time we have been finding that the Government has deviated from the public property management strategy and that it does not, after all, pursue those objectives that it has set itself. And I'm only gonna point out some of them here. Raise corporate governance culture, increase investment efficiency, increase capital return and so on. It is right to know, once again, even though it has been repeatedly exposed today to the management of around EUR 12 billion worth of state property. Therefore, it is far from irrelevant how this property is managed. Indeed, the derogations of the Government from the State Property Management Strategy also have a bearing on Slovenia's reputation abroad. Above all, what the Minister himself said in the introduction has a major impact on what opinion potential investors might have, and what the interest of investment investors in Slovenia would be after all. It also affects the competitiveness of the entire Slovenian economy. That's why it's so important. Now let's go back a little bit. Where did it all start more or less? First of all, those famous exchanges started at the DUTB, when foreign experts got fired. By then, we had warned that this was more than evidently done simply because these people could not be politically affected. Let me recall, at that time, the Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja himself, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, acknowledged that, specifically in the case of Sava, which is also mentioned in these recommendations, he was trying to interfere with the work of the DUB, which should otherwise be an independent institution. At the time, the media was very popular with the various high remunerations of these individuals, but when we look on the other hand that the Government in some way wants to relieve that ceiling of the remuneration of managers in state-owned enterprises, and not least that it did not act in some way or at all in the event of unlawfully paid allowances for permanent readiness, we know that this statement with high remuneration was completely attracted to the hair. This was followed by an exchange at the SDH summit, on which, until today, we have not received any concrete explanations that could be said to make sense. However, this government came into power with a promise of very high ethical and moral standards, but this government is responsible for who it appointed to the SDH supervisory council and who sits at the SDH summit. Now let's see what these people did next. In the supervisory world, our largest state banks placed those people who were at the time of the bank's creation in extremely important management positions. We cannot say, therefore, that these people are responsible for the bank hole, but I can say with certainty that there is a great risk for these people that they were responsible for this bank hole. Do you think this is a suitable way of managing state property? That the course of all these procedures, we have heard about this hugely on the committee itself on Friday and something even today, I don't even want to talk about it anymore. You have seen a conflict of interest in those who have collaborated with the bank, such as with the bank's committees themselves, but you do not see the conflict itself or anything disputed in these people who were in important positions in the bank when most of these bad loans were also created. I really just can't understand it. I also wonder where all the independent experts you promised before the elections are. Who are these independent experts? It's more than obvious that it's yours, already tested, old personnel and those same people you've now placed in extremely important places. If we just look at Paloma's sale or Adrie Airways, I'm gonna pull over on the Adrie case. At the Assembly itself, a proposal was made by SDH to recapitalise the company with EUR 4.1 million, of which EUR 3.1 million to the State, and 1 million to the newly established K4 project company. The day before, 91.58% of the shares of the Republic of Slovenia in EUR 100,000 have already been signed with this company. A company sold to a company or so-called project company which was established only a few days before the assembly itself and established in a country which is, of course, very favourable. We can really wonder what the culture of corporate governance is here and if in this way you are actually increasing the efficiency of investments. On the other hand, we also wonder what knowledge this airline has in the field of aviation, what this means for the future, and not least what taxpayers will have in it. Are they going to have, say, very pleasant flights with Adrio or maybe any of these? If we look at the transfer of Sava’s claims to SDH itself, it is very problematic or very strange. Everything went under the pretext of saving Slovenian tourism. Inside Save d.d. is also Sava Turizem, which truly owns a very large part of hotels in Slovenia and is very important. But then why didn't this company just shut down, Save Tourism? Why he went with the taxpayer's money to save the entire Save holding company. Last but not least, for this holding, the former DUTB CEO said it was a bed of corruption. If we look at the transfer of Probank and Factor Bank to DUTB and look at it from the very beginning of the so-called controlled liquidation, we can believe that probably those claims that have been secured have been sold in this process for the past two years. The remaining unsecured, poor, truly critical claims, and these claims will now be transferred to the DUTB, of course without adequate balance sheets, without adequate reports and without appropriate audits. And this is supposed to be a transparent business for you. I don't know, we're really wondering if this is possible because of any clienteleistic connections within any of these banks. For example, the purchase of the Sava Reinsurance Company of EUR 6.3 million from the NKBM purchased by the Government. The purchase went directly from the state budget. Why? In order to increase the share of the Republic of Slovenia in the Sava Reinsurance Facility from 25 % to 27 %. Why is that important? The Sava reinsurance company is defined as an important investment, which means that it must have 25% plus one share. If we look at that the owners of the Blue Insurance Company and the Bank, which are either state-owned or state-owned, this means that the state already controls about one third of the Sava Reinsurance Company. Why, then, was it important to give this 6.3 million tax money for this additional 2%? I think that all these cases show more than obvious that only certain individuals and perhaps certain stakeholders are trying to be resolved here. I am truly afraid that in the end, exactly what we have repeatedly warned about will happen. The fact that those who are actually responsible for the emergence of these bad claims will come cheaply back to what they have already lost once because of their mistreatment, of course again at the expense of taxpayers, which is the problem here. SDH is indeed responsible for managing state assets and the government is responsible for appointing supervisors in SDH, so I think there is a complete transfer around who is responsible for what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Government, to the Secretary of State, to colleagues and colleagues! The problems with whether I can use shortcuts, DUB and SDH and the Ljubljana Bank and these issues are something that I, of course, do not think is necessarily bad to discuss. I am not opposed to these debates, but it is true that when we are talking about specific cases, it is more inappropriate to say that an investigative commission should be set up to do so. At the level of the National Assembly, it is difficult to discuss specifics. What is, of course, the problem with these discussions is that we have had these discussions many times and that in some ways it is becoming a bit of a nuisance to repeat the same arguments. I must say that the members of Desus Group have had an interview with representatives or responsible people in the DUTB. We were interested — at least personally — in what they thought about labour ownership. I was surprised by the answer because they simply said they were concerned about the social side of ownership, but at the same time they stressed at other points that it was important for those who invested to be aware of their responsibilities and the risk of their operations. Of course, I don't think that's the solution. If the worker is willing to redeem part of the company, if the worker is willing to redeem part of the debt, of course the banks should help him, because unemployment is certainly a worse social problem than the risk he faces. Because this worker who would like to go to work or to work together knows exactly what it is worth, what it is doing, what it is, and, of course, the bank should go to him in some way really. As for the old, audited bankers, if I may say so, the bankers from the time they created the bank hole, of course, I must say that I had some very thorough conversations with the individuals who worked in this bank, and I must say that they convinced me that it is simply not true that these people should be put back into positions of responsibility. Because the people we have at our disposal are huge, I am sure that we have always found that we have people wherever we open up. By their argument, however, they really convinced me that we should not actually return them. One of the arguments was, say, the following. The college or the director signed the contract because he had too much of it and because he couldn't know exactly what it said and who they gave it to. I think that argument is catastrophic. We know that there were 8 signatures in the Ljubljana Bank on every bank contract before she went to college, so it is only a question of the conscious or unconscious part of this management of the Ljubljana Bank. What particularly grieves me about these questions — not to say that I have said this several times — is that the Governing Councils have not done their tasks in any way. On the contrary, it was an agreement between the leadership and the governing council, and from this all things were born that were not meant to be. The Governing Councils should, by law, respond to the decisions they have made with property, and this has not happened. I am sure that, at the moment when we recapitalised it, after the most harsh or worst estimate of stress tests, the bank should not be able to show profits or accumulate profits and find out from it its successful work, but that these funds it has received should, in fact, be made available to working organisations or workers for the further manipulation of funds. Otherwise, we know that today's policy is actually a second-rate issue if I go to the next. Europe and the world, of course, have financial capital, and I am sure that we do. The fact is that for 25 years no authority in Slovenia has been immune to recruitment and that no authority has been able to overcome this story of the relationship between recruitment and the power in which it has been ever stronger, I stress, financial capital than customers. In fact, the parties have clearly played a weaker role in these games. Perhaps there is a point in my brief contribution to which the opposition thinks, but I must say that between me and what the opposition is explaining is an essential difference. I do not think that all the property the state has should sell, but that it should keep some part, because I am a representative of health care, education should not be privatised at all costs and under all conditions. Of course, I am not talking about how we will design a pension fund in Slovenian, but this is another area that is related, but I am not a specialist myself, so I would rather let it go. The social situation of people today depends on us, or very much not to say above all, on strong state property, not only on taxes on property or on private capital. Let me repeat to the end that I am alone for the development of labour ownership, i.e. some form of cooperatives, which has proved extremely good in Slovenian in the past. I think that today we should do as much as we can to help with capital, i.e. financial resources, in order for workers to realize their social status, alone, without the social assistance of the unemployment-following country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will also first refer to the debate that many colleagues have had before me when you yourself referred to the Minister's debate. The part where he said that the debate wasn't appropriate, some of you understood it as a kind of ban on the debate, so some of you reacted excessively. In this regard, I would now like to say my opinion that Mr Minister did not claim that any debate was not allowed, that we should be quiet and go home, but that he said that this was a kind of debate that wished to influence the management of state assets beyond the levers set by the Law on Slovenian State Holding and the Law on Economic Companies. Little overreacted to this statement was also due to the fact that we have not yet internalized what it actually means. That is why I would now also focus on what governance means at all. In our country, we have a government property management system. This system is laid down in the Slovenian State Holding Act. This law follows the OECD Guidelines on Corporate Governance of State-owned Enterprises, which, of course, we are obliged to take into account as a member of the OECD. Following these guidelines, the OECD is the main objective of the law to ensure that policy does not interfere with the management of state-owned companies. That's the point. Of course, the law says that the national asset manager, that is the Slovenian state holding company, must act independently and independently. He adds more than that: According to the law, the Slovenian State Holding and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of the State authorities or third parties in the performance of their tasks. The State authority is also the National Assembly. From this, both for the National Assembly and for the Government, it must not affect the decision-making of the Slovenian State holding company. If I would now like to extend this Minister's statement on the debate and I would like to be a little provocative or encourage further discussion with you, I could say that we could conclude the debate here. That's the point. For all those who find this difficult to understand, I suggest that you read this presentation of the opinion of the Finance Minister once again. His debate went on and included the Law on Economic Companies, a two-tier and two-tier management system, but that is, if I were to make a little joke, already higher mathematics, so now he would not repeat it here. A few words about the very reference to an extraordinary session or material. Again or always more, it appears that the material is prepared in a way that is actually an extension of what the media is writing. If you look at it as interesting, the material that the callers have prepared contains a total of 56 pages, of which 63% and 35 pages of the magazine are. I think we've already heard criticism today at the expense of citing meetings in such a way that newspaper articles are copied. Of course, we have found that the newspaper articles are welcome, but what follows in the explanation, there must be an upgrade, there must be some argument, there must be some making of the facts mentioned there in some meaningful conclusions. According to my assessment of the applicants or those who requested a reference, these conclusions, i.e. this inductive conclusion on the basis of individual cases, have failed to substantiate the general recommendations which they then made in the conclusions we rejected on the Committee. Then there are 8 pages or 14% of the strategy copied in the material. I have not heard anything so far in this debate in the National Assembly or on the Committee that what you copied on the eight-page material would deny. The debate on the committee was, anyway, just a debate on staffing. I have not heard of the management of state property there, except perhaps that I will not be unjust, in a small part with my colleague Webr and perhaps with my colleague Verbic, but we have talked mostly about staffing. On the management of State property, no relevant arguments. Nevertheless, here I will faithfully or strictly follow what colleague Ban has already said in her debate, not to comment on individual cases, not on the management of assets or personnel. All I can say is that the government has already responded to everything you've stated in the paper. I will not read again what is written in the annex to this meeting in response to the Government. These are the answers to three parliamentary questions from colleagues Pogačnik, Breznik and Pojbič and two opinions on the Commission's reference to public financial supervision in relation to the recruitment in state companies and the addition of Factor Bank and Probank to the Banking Company. From this material, not in the debate on the Committee and today's debate, I can only hope that the future debate will bring about something that might lead us to believe that the management of state assets is in breach, as you have used the term, or that it does not achieve the objectives or indicators of financial or non-financial objectives, anything from the documents or from the Slovenian National Holding Act adopted by this National Assembly – we have not heard anything of which can only mean what the Government has consistently stressed that the management of state assets takes place in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Resolution on the State Capital Investment Management Strategy and the other documents that have been adopted on this basis. However, despite the fact that it sounded like an obvious fact that we were only discussing human resources on the committee last Friday, I saw it as a potential – this was mentioned in my previous discussion by my colleague Ferlug – in the work concerning the performance of Mr Gaberščik. Not this town will not repeat all of his debate, I can only mention the emphasis when he spoke about the fact that the personnel base is shallow. He probably wasn’t talking about the number of people enrolled in the base, which is around 100 – 500, 600, 700 – but he was talking about lawyers who would simultaneously meet the condition of excluding conflicts of interest and in the case of banks, let’s say, banking experience. Here he, as State Secretary, spoke in his presentation about the overriding of legislation. For a legislative body like us, it is particularly interesting to claim that something is wrong. I suggest that colleagues and colleagues also discuss what you think about what overriding is, where the standard can be changed, for example, in the case of recruitment, to make it less harsh, in order to prevent what some have warned that comes as candidates people who may not be the most suitable. When I say that they are not the most suitable, I also talk about what is enshrined in the first and second indents of Article 21 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, namely personal integrity, business ethics, business performance and reputation, and also business credibility of understanding business culture and commitment to respect the principles of business ethics. When I asked my colleague Gaberskik on the committee what you were referring to, he also told me how the Accreditation Commission checks these conditions. They just have a system of questions. The most interesting thing is that, of course, when someone is checked, they also consider whether someone has been exposed to a negative media light. Although in some ways I am relativising what I said earlier as a criticism of how your material is prepared, but some potential for the accreditation commission to choose or nominate better personnel, there is, however, a formal and informal work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u42	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Respond to this debate by the distinguished colleague Krajnc of the SMC Group. His main observation is that we have prepared most of the material on the basis of media articles. Dear Mr Krajnc, if your coalition and the government of Mir Cerar did not "screw" the opposition from the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding, from the supervisory board or from the board of the Management Board of the Company for Bank Claims, it would probably be different. But since the opposition does not have a "its" representative in the Slovenian State Holding and does not have a "its" representative in the Banks Claims Management Society, we have no other option than to prepare one piece of material based on media articles. I think that all these actions that we are referring to in here, which we are convinced to deviate from good business practices abroad, to deviate from the State Property Management Strategy adopted by the Government of Mir Cerar, are justified arguments. Finally, if we only expose the sale of Paloma d.d, the State Property Management Strategy at least states that all tenderers must be treated equally. Why was the other tenderer not treated equally at the assembly of this company or why even a tenderer who offered significantly worse conditions than others was chosen? Why did the Secretary of State of Mr. Method Dragonja lie on the Tarč show that Mr Podbevška’s first NLB supervisor was required by Banka Slovenije? Then Banka Slovenije denied this statement and sent a letter that Banka Slovenije had never requested the withdrawal of any of the members of the Supervisory Board in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Why did he say that the meeting could end immediately without seeing the reason for the discussion? The meeting has been open for almost four hours and the Secretary of State has not yet answered one question that has been raised today in the course of the meeting, not one. Convince the Secretary of State of Method Dragonjo to answer these questions, and we may decide to conclude the meeting so that we can have the appropriate answers. However, the opposition and the Slovenian public have not yet received an answer, even to this day, which was the reason for this replacement of the management of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which took place in 2015. You're in the SMC client's office saying we're making some flat-rate accusations. Here we have cited some specific cases, not just flat-rate accusations. Why did the government decide to easily join Probanka and Factor Bank to DUTB? Why was it necessary for both Probanks and Factor Banks to join the DUTB? Has the so - called control liquidation already been foreseen by the government of Alenka Bratušek that all of this will be done together? Was everything so transparent when Adria Airways sold? Why was the company sold to a company that was established only a few days before Adrie Airways was purchased? Kind of a question. Why was more than €6 million needed from the state budget to buy the shares of Sava Reinsurance? Is there a conflict of interest with the board member Barbara Smolnikar, given that the president of the board of directors of the company in which Nova Ljubljanska Banka has a 50% stake, and that all decisions at the meetings of the Supervisory Board in connection with the New Ljubljana Bank are excluded?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much, mag. Marco Pogačnik. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get Mrs. Ludmila Novak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable everyone else! Three hours and forty minutes I'm listening to something that many say is a debate, but somehow I don't see a debate. Of course, the management of state property is an important topic, and I could even agree with a speaker in front of me, who is now absent, that we are not talking about it because the management of state property is not to a large extent. It's a strategy, a privatisation plan. Like the so-called DUTB, it does not carry out what is in short supply. If I follow what's been going on so far, maybe someone's metaphor is going to be too bad, but it's kind of like we have a team that's set up the conditions for how a public house should work, how it can be done, how it can be done, and now we have another team that's somehow taken over, we have a part of Desus team that's been on both teams, and now we're going to have some discussion about who's more innocent. That's unfortunately today's debate. Mr. Tonin said you behaved the same as all governments before you. Hold on, dot, I'll sign. The proponent of this and the man who speaks the most, Mr Pogačnik – we know what he has done before, he was now a late Mr Bajuk finance minister and then responsible owners were sought. Mr. Pogačnik was in a position when Alpina sold herself to someone and so on. In short, dear gentlemen, you've already crawled. If you hadn't done what you were doing, you probably wouldn't have had SDH in this form, the law you wrote would not have had a bad bank and wouldn't have had any of these debates. Let's have a little touch of Brnik and so on, because you're all talking about it. To be faster, today I'm gonna have a brick because I don't have that much time. Adria Airways Tech, we haven't discussed this today. That's a very nice example. The highly trained staff, without which the development of air transport in Slovenia is not, 200 people, operates positively, ideal for working ownership. They are in charge of the manufacturing process, and for some time during the crisis, they have practically run the company themselves, they don't have any big real capital, they're not over-indebted. What happens in practice? 150 employees contribute, raise their own funds for purchase, set up a share, acquire a loan, SDH chooses the offer of a competing Polish company. The management of SDH should organise a mandatory consultation with the Council of Workers in accordance with the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. As far as I know, that didn't happen. SDH and Fraport – Ljubljana Airport as a co-owner do not take into account the requirements of workers and both trade unions for non-priced commitments. I don't think they even sent work inspections to see if it was a crime, fines and so on. We have sent questions to both the Ministry of Interior and SDH how the Government and the Republic of Slovenia will support the work acquisitions of privatised companies or privatisation companies in the future. We have not received an answer from the Ministry, but the SDH's response is to deal with these processes and do not have a systemic resource for the creation of guarantee schemes to support labour buy-outs. I can speak long and wide, but in short, some clause we have there to check the possibilities for internal ownership is a dead letter on paper. And I'm not going to drag some of your coalitions out now, and so on. What kind of owners do we want, what kind of owners we don't want? After a third of the term of office, the Government finally welcomes to come to Maribor. Good afternoon. Then one of these positive news – one company that, of course, contacted Members from our end, up and down, somehow approved some bridge funds of EUR 200 000. It's a company that was a division of Gorenje in time, making kitchens. Let's go look at ownership. The owner of this company is the American fund, which is valid in cash for the Slovenian situation. And this so-called – let NSI colleagues in particular listen – the responsible foreign owner does not want to invest 300,000 euros in the company he owns. I do not want such responsible foreign owners in Slovenia, for sure. Yes, Josoka, you're raising your hands. Then it kicks us into some colonial situation, if you want, which we already know in the White Landscape, in Dolenjska we call the IMV, including Renault's story if you want. To stay with you, pay us so much and so much. Such privatisations are what we are going to do, my dears, and that is essentially a problem. I've been listening all day: Hops, we need to get our hands off this. Because the law was so written that SDH was a parallel universe, because then some position thought that this would run – depending on how we count – the third, fourth or final cycle of privatisation in Slovenia. Now the matter is getting a little mixed up, there are some new policies, a new policy, a little more awkward, the president of the National Assembly counts the interest lobby, somehow it's come to 5 or whatever, and then, of course, we have some situation that we have. My colleagues in Desus today talk a lot about cooperatives. Where were you gentlemen when you were at the government? You've been in all the governments – aye, only two are still here – since 2000. Why didn't you talk about it in 2004 or 2008? Then we wouldn't be talking and making fun of people now, or we'd be doing an extraordinary harmonisation of pensions at a net amount of half a burek, but not in Ljubljana, half a burek in Maribor, maybe you'll buy. Do you know what happens to me from the third or fourth year of my life and what I'm most allergic to? Duplicity. In this "uncontroversy" is mainly full of some duality. We will, of course, move things forward when the people you set up and the people who cross a lobby crossing, say a gentleman from SD, are pushed out of politics and codecision in the economy. Before that, it's just going to be some bumpy sessions, because we have to do our homework, because we're basically going a little bit to our liver. How many candidates are there? One party, another party, unrelated – thirty of you. There's six of you sitting here. You can tell me I'm alone. Seven, sorry, buddy's still here. I sent mine to go do something, including professional associates, because I knew how this meeting would go. I don't see any crazy debate in this session. I also doubt that Mr Dragonja will say anything else, as Mr Minister has said. Because such an arrangement suits you. You know, a careful review of a medium-sized Slovenian company carried out by some law firm costs a couple hundred thousand euros. We have a coalition here where there are the most lawyers. Good afternoon. These are some sort of facts. These are the facts that journalists have written many times, and these are some facts that we are really aware of. This privatisation cycle will probably have to go to the end, and then the coalition will say, "Oh, yeah, let's start working management, that's great. However, we will all agree when there is no longer any work to be done or when it will be very difficult to obtain some financial resources so that workers can be involved in management or take over. Last week, let's say again a little more talk about Domel, where Mrs. Director won the award. I hope at least the Chamber of Commerce is a little smart, if not the National Assembly. I'm sorry, but I'm not completely sure that's true. Of course, the state must interfere with its property in such a way that, as in countries where they are seriously doing so, certain capable people, not kleptomaniacs, are recruited into responsible functions. Also in the supervisory councils, where also [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u46	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I ask you to warn Comrade Duck that he is using the right numbers and also the right content when he mentions certain data. Now, the Slovenian compensation company did not sell 56 % of Alpina's share in 2006 and could not sell Alpina in its entirety, since it was never 56 % of the owners. The Slovenian compensation company sold 15% of the share, together with three other sellers — Capital Company, EBRD — European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Maxim Holding. The company was sold in 2006, in a transparent manner, by equal treatment of all tenderers and the last bid was at the auction of the best bidder. The problems in the Alps began with the entry of DUTB in 2013. I don't remember there being any protests in the Alps in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2012, or anything. There's been a poor sale. The late Finance Minister Bajuk was also mentioned. Leave the dead to rest in peace. Let him use the correct information. I have already drawn attention to this at the very meeting of the Committee on Finance, which referred to the proposal of the United Left. This same information was used to sell 56% of Alpine to the SOD. It's not, it's 15, along with three other bidders. Also in the position of the United Left Group, there are at least four numerical and substantive errors in the functioning of the SOD during the first Janša government, to put, say, the purchase of assets in securities and investments. No, we settled our obligations. I don't know where my fellow moon got that information. That the Court and Kad sold 190 companies. 172 capital investments were made by the Slovenian Compensation Company in 2015, when I took over the situation and still some of them are still in control today. Madam President, I propose that you warn Members of the United Left that they are operating on correct data and are not deceiving.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your explanation. This was not a procedural proposal; this is more considered as a debate in which you can explain the opinion. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, thank you very much. Now he has the procedural word of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u48	Madam President, I think it is high time that Members of the SDS stop using the procedure. We can flip the magnetogram back, I didn't mention any statistics, no data. That is why this is a double abuse, and somehow I expect you to give Mr Pogačnik a reminder. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the session. Procedural or on behalf of the proposer? As a proponent, mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u50	Thank you. Dear colleague Trcek, you mentioned that the court sold Alpino. He didn't sell it himself. He sold it with three other owners. The Court never sold 56 % of the shares of Alpina because [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Because he didn't have it. You said he sold it. [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u51	Mr. Duck, please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u52	To sell the company, you need a majority share.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u54	Your Honor, hello. Today, we are constantly listening to how the government must not influence the decisions of SDH. Yes, yes, that's according to the rules, but we all know that the government has appointed a control council that has then appointed and can also change the leadership of SDH if it does not do well and right. When the government appointed the Governing Council, it was likely that it chose some people who had also checked them to comply with the government’s guidelines. I am very disappointed because in these appointments, the networks are actually now setting up their tested naphthalene personnel, as someone said, and the government is looking away. That's why she's no less guilty because she's looking away. When I listened to the position of the SD Group, Mr Webra, I must say that it was very critical to own it at this time, until the recruitment. The same was true of Desus. I understand that if this were the personal position of the Member, but these were the views of the coalition parliamentary group, two coalition parliamentary groups. I wonder how these two parliamentary groups or parties still persist in such a government that supports such disastrous decisions of the people they have set up. I'm very surprised about that. We also say that it is necessary to find responsible owners, but that property is sold under your leadership. Therefore, New Slovenia is not to blame for which future or current buyers of state property are. You're in the government, not Nova Slovenija. Then, please, don't kid yourself, otherwise it's just a two-faced thing. I understand the personal views of individual Members, but I do not understand what your party is doing in such a government with such views. The new faces, the old boys in the back, the uncles in the background. You're that first line, the infantry, as they say in the army, who pushes it forward, while from behind others can do what they want, and you just keep your mouth shut and let them kick you in the front row and you're the most responsible. In normal countries, normal authority would never again put people in positions of responsibility that have already been there and that have not proved to be, perhaps even more involved in the contested decisions. In a normal country, this can't be happening. Unfortunately, this is happening in our country. While we are moving millions and billions here, the New Ljubljana Bank is talking about rationalisation. You know how he rationalizes business? So he shuts down ATMs for people in remote places like I heard yesterday in Solchava. This is what citizens do, and the ATM wants to take it, and we're talking about the millions and billions that have gone missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u56	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. A nice welcome once again from my side to all present Members and representatives of the government! I have a feeling, not a feeling, that's the fact that we've talked a lot about matters relating to the management of state property. There is nothing wrong with it, but I feel that whenever we start talking about it, the opposition comes — let me use this expression — somehow with a negative approach. Everything is wrong, this strategy has not already received some positive momentum in preparation itself or some optimism in preparation, when it was confirmed and adopted, all of it was one big nothing and so on. Of course, I am not in this position, and even in Desus we are not in this position. As colleague Novak found out, we're still critical. We are always and everywhere critical, but with some dose of calm and constructive criticism. Of course, strategy is not dry gold. That's what you need to know. It probably has some shortcomings, but at the same time it is also time for it to be implemented in some way as well into those positive effects that we all want to achieve in the final stage through the management of state assets. We said that I must point out here that, of course, after a certain period of time, we will look at the matter, complement it, modify it, correct it, that it will, of course, benefit the citizens and citizens of this country. We finally have this strategy, we haven't had it in a long time. We are following some of the European Commission's guidelines and not least the OECD, which we are members of. All of these institutions have given us a positive assessment or expressed a positive view of the strategy itself and the way in which state assets are managed. And even if you didn't, they're what someone would say. I know that this is the right way for the strategy to have an independent, rational and, above all, transparent management of our property, the property of citizens and citizens who have been creating, noble for many years and so on. In this strategy, I must say this again, I have in mind, in particular, governance and nobility, to a lesser extent and where necessary, where the individual minor participation of the country is not defined as a strategic investment, but also to sell off, and also to find some other owners. I don't mind. However, I do have the view that it is not a problem that the state owns many companies, but the problem is that those people with names and surnames who operate in leading or key positions have been or are sometimes under-responsible and sometimes under-emphasis. And we've already come up with a recruitment problem. It would be very wrong for day-to-day policies, policies or political parties to be directly involved in the recruitment process and to make those key moves. This can't happen, so we decided to go the other way and name institutions. No imaginary network of lobbyists, uncles, aunts, anyhow, but that these institutions or leading people on them, which we have also clearly written down the rules of the game, do the job both in the human resources sense and, of course, in the management context of the implementation of policies that are before SDH, and finally, the bad banks could list more. It is true, as we have said in the position of the Desus Group, that some of the responses of the leaders in SDH were unconvincing and did not clearly deny some of the media records relating to staffing, here I am thinking mainly of our largest state bank. Not in Desus, and I myself am not the one who, in general, would accuse and strike someone after the menace, but it is true that in the final selection of both management and supervisors of large, important and strategic state investments or companies, it is still necessary to choose from the selection – I think not so small a set of staff for these key functions – those people who are professionally indisputable, who have their own experiences that have not been compromised in the past and could still be listed. To simplify, it is necessary to select people in whom there will be no minimum suspicion of doing anything wrong in the past. They must be as clean as tears, I'd say. Of course, it is also a fact that there is a need for specific knowledge in this area. In the specific knowledge itself, it is necessary to know that the rich past experience in banking is indispensable, but it is also necessary to know that, in the past, such or other activities have not been compromised. It's not the simplest business, but that's why the rules of the game are written, so there's a lot of rules, instructions, and I don't know what else. If I compare SDH staffing with, say, public administration, there are people there – state officials of the highest rank, secretaries-general, directors-general – also through one procedure. It is called the Special Competition Commission, its experience is reviewed, its knowledge reviewed and so on and so on. N last but not least in companies, they do not need to be state-owned, a procedure is carried out and the most suitable candidate is chosen. I think it is also necessary to go through this process, and if the rules of the game are vaguely written, of course they need to be changed. However, once again, I would like to make it clear and principally that we have designed the institutions and management system in such a way that day-to-day policy cannot and cannot interfere with these decisions. That was our purpose. All those who participate in these procedures, i.e. SDH and their Human Resources Commission, in short, are responsible that I do not list them now in their names and surnames, but they must be aware here of where they are, under what rules, the games and the rules they must operate under. They must be aware of their responsibilities and, at the final stage, the consequences in both good and bad. A few times Desus was mentioned here, I believe well-intentioned. The question was, who's in charge? Desus certainly doesn't. Desus here supports a transparent, fair game, if you want, very directly, respect for regulations, respect for institutions, their roles. If we're gonna stick to this, there shouldn't be any trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Wrotetz, did you want a word as a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u58	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It has just been said that this policy, which is now, does not deal with staffing, that politics does not employ and so on. This is because the policy has set up the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding. We can't do it anyway. This National Assembly has appointed the Slovenian State Holding with your votes. But it's not at all controversial, it's in accordance with the law. At the same time, we cannot say that politics does not recruit. Yeah, well, politics is recruiting from the cabinet of the president of the government, so it's public knowledge. If Mr Keseljjevic, who is in charge of staffing or human resources solutions, is provided with SDH supervisory board members, that is also informal information, which is why politics is staffing, your policy is staffing. That's controversial. If the government calls someone, it's logical, because the government has to name, the government has to recruit, but it's essential to frame people who aren't compromised, who have a purely past that they didn't have in the past, as I said before, in creating a bank hole that the taxpayers have saved. This is where your problem comes in. I am generously warning you that this problem is solved so that you do not name any more people who are just and just "ours", but in the past many have committed a problem that has subsequently proved to be a problem. I really encourage you to listen to the opposition's proposals here, to use one different policy to recruit in state-owned companies, even when we are talking about banks or the banking system, because people are very sensitive to banks. Many times, they have invested in this system of things, and we cannot treat them with such a stepmotherly attitude.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, prepare Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u60	Thank you. I don't know if Desus really has such weak roots in SDH's human resources titles if I'm doing a little cartooning. All those three who have been appointed to the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, which, as a result, is also, for example, today's meeting, somehow belong to the miles of Desus. If we were, for example, younger generation representatives, those entrepreneurial shits that he's creating today probably wouldn't be able to attribute these names to some big omens about digging a bank hole. But I must go back to the opening words of Minister Marble. He said that such discussions in the National Assembly on staffing in Slovenian state companies have a significant impact on the image of Slovenia, reduce Slovenia's attractiveness for foreign direct investment and that all of this has very negative consequences for the number and quality of jobs. Some catastrophic assessment presented by Minister Maramor to the Slovenian public. But this is a typical dilemma: a chicken or an egg? What happened before, this meeting or the appointment of members of the SDH Supervisory Board? Remember, at a meeting of the night, which is called to quickly, with people who are in conflict of interest, because they are employed in an institution where they then appoint staff, and without any broad consensus. If it is indeed in Mr Marble's interest that there is no debate that has a very negative impact on the number and quality of jobs, let him first ensure that such personnel are proposed, which will be at the end of any dilemma on their ethical indisputability. Because if the Government had approved such candidates, we would have such broad agreement in the National Assembly. If you put the wrong people in key positions, it is hard to expect the wrong people to make the right decisions. And if the wrong people make wrong decisions, that is to say, decisions to the detriment of taxpayers, then it is irresponsible that the ones he has placed with his finger point to the one who warns if you receive a thief. It's like stealing an hour and saying, "Get your dad!" It is interesting that the coalition, and above all the largest coalition party that will be facing everyone with this senseless frame of mind – in fact, the coalition will show its power and how it has risen above the general feeling and feeling in the country – will either receive or have to pay the highest price for this because all of these appointments will be attributed the main role to the largest SMC party. Closing your eyes to the urgency of changes in human resources policy, replacing the leadership positions of SDH, is about the same dilemma as you have in the government. You maintain the status quo, you don't want to adopt reforms, because, in principle, it's still good, although in one, two, three years, the result is that economic growth will go down. That is why the European Commission has warned the Minister of Finance and the Slovenian Government not to achieve structural shifts in our budget. Because it does not think in the long term and does not draw on those real reform measures that may lift up some eyebrows in a short time, and everyone would benefit from it in the long run. However, since this Government has left behind the smallest resistance line for these corporations, those lines that are "breathing" and that lead this country, to this mandarin of the Slovenian financial system, because you think it is the easiest thing to do, you will end up paying the price for it yourself. Is there anyone among you who so excitedly defends SDH's staffing when he wonders why these people who are being recruited by SDH don't take them to any private bank? Why is it always only in state banks? Probably because there's first corporate governance in private banks and then there's some result. In state banks, however, as bank mandarins understand, those who have created this bank hole – everything is as it should be, if it is what they want it to be. Since this government has apparently agreed not to resort to these power centers in exchange for some current public peace, we have the consequences of this unwise recruitment. It happened that the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, as a member of the Supervisory Board of another company, appointed Mr Narat as head of the Sava. Don't you have any better proof? But after seeing the reaction, Mr. Narat had to step down on his own. What happened to Mr. Gedrih? What are the consequences? Mr Gedrich gets 20 000 euros a year for his membership in the Supervisory Board, in addition to being a supervisor in the New Bank of Ljubljana. He was retired and you pulled him back. Why? Who's in charge? Representatives of the coalition party, especially the SMC, are talking about if anyone has any evidence to prove when we're talking about some networks and so on. If, as the head of the commission of inquiry, people from the NPU come to ask me if the commission of inquiry has any material from the New Ljubljana Bank, because they do not get it, then it is somewhat unusual that the coalition Members represent this as the main reason that there is no evidence and that we have no firm documents to testify about it. They're solid documents, they're made in banks, the result is, we know, five billion holes, and those that were there are now at the head of these banks again. Isn't that pretty solid evidence? And finally, how solid evidence does it have to be for the coalition or for the SMC to change its position to become a little wider? I recall that the internal control of one of your Members recently found that she had broken the law in her previous post, headed by CSD. And you have a very high scale set. This is not enough for you that a Member should resign because it is from the SMC. If such a Member were from another parliamentary group, I believe that today all 35 in one horn would say how such a Member or Member should leave this Chamber. The same is true of SDH’s staffing or SDH’s staffing. Today you're saying that there's nothing wrong with you, that there's nothing bothering you, but if we have other evidence, we have evidence to plan. While the NPU does not even get this evidence because the banks are quite creative in the absence of these evidences, if they do not, they are assisted by a district judge at the District Court in Ljubljana, Desha Cener. As far as the government's response to our initiative for this meeting is concerned, however, it would be good if you read this product that you are preparing. That was a copy-paste answer to my question. However, I cannot go beyond how Slovenian public, as we monitor these personnel malversions of SDH, then say the appointment to the head of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank and at all the composition of the new SDH Supervisory Board responds with this sentence: "This composition should allow for an in-depth understanding of the whole area of the activities of the bank and the risks to which the bank is exposed, and the heterogeneous composition should also prevent the risk of group thinking." The heterogeneous composition should prevent the risk of group thinking. Further: "The broad combination of the ability, experience and demographic diversity of members will, according to SDH, allow for the treatment and enlightenment of problems with multiple angles, so that the Supervisory Board will be able to monitor the best possible decisions for the bank on the basis of an open discussion". Come on, what kind of explanation is that? I went to look at what "demographic diversity of members" means and I read in professional literature: "The authors of the review of existing literature find that usually demographic diversity has a negative impact on community trust." If in SDH such "Kunšt" words and words are already put into explanation, some really strange explanation, then at least read first what the professional literature says. And how can such a structure shed light on problems with multiple angles and help in an open discussion if we learned on Friday that one of these members, who even spoke to take over the Governing Council, could not speak English or a foreign language? What will he speak in sign language? With each new story such as this, it convinces and proves that the original appointment that we strongly opposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely the appointment of SDH supervisors, was the main error which then leads all mistakes forward. At the time Mr Jazbec led the New Ljubljana Bank credit committee, there was a 2 billion-euro weakening in this bank. Credits were granted to companies which were not returned and which were then held at the head of Mr Jazbec. After Mr Jazbec was unable to obtain a licence to run the bank, this government coalition, which referred to moral-ethic standards, placed him at the head of SDH. Well, that's impossible in some normal development of democracy. If I told a story like that, they wouldn't believe me. But with us, this story is actually happening. Not only is it happening, it continues, and not only is it continued, the government coalition continues to support it, but it shows with its finger, if you point to this, you are damaging Slovenia. Until you get over it yourself and ask yourself if it’s really good – if it’s bad for you, it’s your thing – it’s bad for Slovenia, so long in this corporate governance you refer to, there’s not going to be a change. This last quick decision – Factor Bank and Probank of DUTB after a reduced procedure – is again one of these similar matters. You're talking about how Banka Slovenije suggested this. Yes, but the Bank of Slovenia proposed something else in this regard to prepare a management report and revise the attached contract. What doesn't suit you is that these two banks left shells unexplored. I assure you, they've been unexplored since they haven't been able to investigate them. Now these shells will go inside the DUTB without some kind of cross-cutting, detailed, revised connection contract or some balance sheet, some "ork" revision. The Bank of Slovenia proposed this, and the government rejected it. You are quoting the proposal of the Bank of Slovenia in this paper, but only the part that speaks of this connection, not the other part that proposes a more in-depth analysis of the connection. Interesting, isn't it? Not to say that now that these two banks have joined the DUTB or have already done so, they will no longer be supervised by Banka Slovenija, so no longer be audited, they will no longer be subject to the Banking Act and, if I am a little sarcastic, when I mentioned earlier that those shells that are still unexplored are now entering the DUTB, even employees will no longer have that legal protection, the anonymous application they have under the Banking Act for these internal banking crimes. In short, significantly less transparent with a substantially less transparent structure – the coalition defends. To talk about the fact that this institution, which is an institution, should be allowed to manage this task, is only applicable in a system where it operates in some balance and balance. However, if these balances fail — and you have a series of evidence that they have already collapsed — some moves may need to be made. The debate on the state of the Slovenian economy or in state-owned enterprises is the first necessary step for a broad consensus on some more appropriate corporate governance. Because it was under this government that it proved that corporate governance of state-owned enterprises, with the support of this coalition, had failed to pass the exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Vojka Šergan. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u62	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have already heard a lot about the structure of SDH itself, which manages Slovenian property. We have also heard that, under the rule of law, this institution is independent, that it must neither receive nor be obliged to receive any policy instructions. I, too, see this debate as somewhat problematic in this regard. I agree that some of the supervisors appointed by SDH through this procedure may be problematic. Those who have already been can be those who will. I won't defend any of them. I don't have any contact with them. In short, they are named after the procedure we have recently adopted by the legislators. But we need to know that with some of these calls, that it's not good, that it's not good, that we're actually doing some kind of political pressure. Political pressure. Come on, Government, pull it off, do something, put it away. I don't know what that means. If not, we will, or how? I want to say that we're getting close or we've already crossed that threshold when corporate governance is no longer corporate governance, but it's some kind of political recruitment. Not only in recent years, I have seen this in recent years, but in such a political workforce – I am also more in favour of privatisation – on every occasion, the debate will expand whether this candidate is good or not. Let us recall some governments in the past when they made some human resources change counters, and that counter was spinning so hard that it eventually burned if I made a little joke. As a result, it is entirely appropriate to ask ourselves whether such questions will be resolved after we have accepted this SDH. If it is a disputed candidate, are we the ones who will be replaced, or will we find that they have committed some kind of crime, that they have committed some kind of dispute, such as a corruption, a crime, and that we will hand over matters to the institutions which are therefore competent? I am convinced that any such debate, although it can be fundamentally well-intentioned, is political pressure. What else? If we are in the National Assembly and if one party is told that it is immoral and I do not know what kind of person it is, because it does not replace some people or because it has named them, because this is, after all, the same thing, then it is nothing more than political pressure on recruitment. With regard to today's debate, I have found little media contributions from the past and found one interesting. And I don't want to judge anyone here. The 2005 funding, which says that colleague Marko Pogačnik has no reference to running the company, was then for the SOD. You've been burned by the media for not having references to being too young, all alive. I don't want to get around here about whether they were right or wrong, but when we talk about some old boys on the one hand, we can also find that if you're too young or whatever you are, there will always be someone who will medially discredit you and will repeat in pursuit some political goals the mantra that this and this candidate is not good, that the policy she set is bad and similar. I think we need to limit ourselves to all these debates. I think we need to be careful about what is happening in all these societies, whether there are acts of crime, corruption and the like that have been committed in the management and respond accordingly. If necessary, we will also amend the SDH Act. After all, the law on SDH is your child. But we cannot, now that we have somehow won it, and this is some kind of independent fortress for the needs of daily politics, fuel political opponents. I think that's what's going on. To avoid being overly dramatic, I say once again that I am not advocating any of these supervisors or anyone who has been appointed to various state-owned companies because I do not even know them, but I suggest that we really be careful where the border is when we have some corporate governance, even though it is a state-owned enterprise, and a border where a political discourse is actually needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, you must have been at the College on March 9th when we confirmed and discussed the convening of this meeting of the National Assembly. There I have proposed to the President of the National Assembly to provide competent interlocutors in the National Assembly, that is to say that they come here to be the competent minister, this is the so-called Minister of Finance and Minister of Economy, because this is what we are now talking about, the management of state property, which consists of banks and companies. I also said that it is not necessary to always send only Secretary of State Draganjo. The President of the National Assembly has promised to ensure participation. The Minister was only involved at the beginning when he read the 10-minute introduction and then he was gone. The meeting has now been held for more than four hours, and the representative of the Government, apart from what was said in the introduction, has not been able to comment on any matter, not even one debate, nor one statement that has been made here. I suggest that if we agree on something in the National Assembly, we stick to it. Such an important issue, where there are some 15 billion euros in assets, in one way or another, however we turn, there is no one from the first government team, that is to say any minister, not a financial and not an economic one. I find that extremely underestimating. When we look at warm water, for example, four will sit here when we deal with the interpretation of some minister, the whole government will sit here. But when we talk about the key problem, this is about the weaknesses of governance of state property, there is no one, neither the President of the Government nor the competent ministers. More cynicism and irony, however, is that even those who are here after four hours have not yet been able to open their mouth, and time has one hour available. The government still has more than a third of the time left. In this way, we cannot go to debates in the National Assembly. I suggest you ensure proper participation, if you can't, let's stop the meeting and then we'll continue. That's one. Secondly, we and the public expect competent answers. We expect answers. There is neither the first, nor the appropriate participation, nor the other, so there are no answers. In short, from the government, which should show something, give something away, is absolutely nothing. We are talking about a key issue of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, I was at the College. At that time, the President of the National Assembly did not guarantee it, but said he would do everything as usual to have responsible ministers come to the meeting of the National Assembly. Of course, I can't guarantee it either. The ministers know it's a meeting, and they've just estimated that one thing is more important. The Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja Method, is here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which enable him to do so and the procedure which allows him to do so. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u66	Mr President, thank you for the floor. On behalf of the proposer, I must respond to Mr Zorčič's debate at the Modern Centre Party. I assume, Sir Zorčič, that you have not read our demands at all, for you have spoken exclusively of personnel. But this requirement for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the administration of state property is not only an entourage, but there are other moves made by the government of Mir Cerar and the coalition SMC, Desus and SD. Let's say the non-transparent connection between Probank and Factor Bank, we didn't get any answers. We are talking about the conclusion of the DUB Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the transfer of the claims of Sava, d. d. to the Slovenian State holding company. We're talking about the sale of Paloma, d.d. and the sale of Adria Airways. We are talking about the possibility of conflict of interest of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding of Barbara Smolnikar. We have not received a single reply today from the Secretary of State. In fact, I think that today this debate has shown something, namely that the only SMC is defending the government from the coalition parties, given these indications cited by the opposition party's proponents. Only you. I think it was clear in the position of the Social Democrats that they disagreed with a number of things carried out by this government. I do not merely suggest that you read what we have proposed in the opposition as a proposal. I would suggest to Members and Members of the SMC, and perhaps also to the Secretary of State, that, after the meeting today, you also read the position of the Social Democrats and the position of Desus. Here, the coalition is not as balanced as it is now seen. Also at some public performances, the head of the SD Group, Mr Han, said he disagreed with the appointment of members of the NLB Supervisory Board and that something must be very wrong here. Dear Mr Zorčič, do not sell the fog that the Slovenian State Holding is independent. Yeah, but just because you're an independent organization doesn't mean you can't have control. But one fact is also that the Slovenian State Holding Assembly is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, currently led by Dr. Miro Cerar. You are the largest coalition party – SMC – and you are therefore responsible. DUTB Assembly is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is led by SMC and Dr Miro Cerar. Lots of stuff. Why did Mr Dragonja lie at Tarča that the Bank of Slovenia requested the recall of the President of the Supervisory Board of Mr Podbevška? The Bank of Slovenia denied it. Then why are you sending representatives of the government, representatives of the ministries, to television if you're saying that the government has nothing to do with the administration of state property? Mr Dragonja appears on all broadcasts talking about the management of state property. Do not sell this fog of independence about the staffing itself. I think there's quite a few things we've given up. You're telling the opposition to discuss the management of state property. Staffing is essential for the quality management of state property. If you don't get the right personnel, you can't have a good management.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u67	Mr. Zorčič, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u68	My colleague Pogačnik, as far as these companies are concerned, when you say that I have focused too much on the workforce, companies are treated equally, as SDH is also not bound by the business proposals. However, it is bound by the Decree on the State’s Capital Investment Management Strategy. Of course, what I said about personnel is also true for companies. But I don't agree with you that the government is supposed to now, and then SMC and I are responsible for every single thing that's going on inside SDH. We have appointed supervisors, I agree with that, we have done so in the National Assembly. Then these were appointed to the governor’s office, and this administration is managing some billions of assets. When there is something wrong in one firm, which is statistically likely to be, this does not mean that the government ultimately, after some cascading responsibility to the last Member or SMC member, is responsible for this. That's not true. The Supervisory Board is responsible because they're paid for it. I insist they're responsible for this. If this scale of the infringement is such that it is unacceptable, it is likely that the entire parliament will rise and say, "Boys, go now! But now he somehow answers everyone to be there to make mistakes, and we're going to be politically instilled in the parties. SDH is independent. People who work there are well paid for their work and are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u69	Mr. Mag. It's a cakemaker, a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. You don't have a clean slate. Article 44 of the Slovenian State Holding Act makes it clear that only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can call off the Supervisory Board. He's called off by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government, which means the government has to do something. SMC is a member of the government. I don't want to move around here right now. The government is responsible for the management of state property. As Members and Members of the Coalition, you were called only to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding because the opposition opposed and we drew attention to matters. In the previous debate, you also said that we are exerting pressure on Slovenian State Holding and that the National Assembly should not do so. None of the recommendations that we have made – but all of your Members and Members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy – have been rejected – have been intended for the leadership of SDH or the SDH Supervisory Council. Recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Not now say we are exerting pressure on SDH, but the government is responsible for managing state assets. Tomorrow, the Government may convene a meeting of the Slovenian State Holding and call off the supervisory board of this company if it so wishes. The only owner of SDH is the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's the same with DUTB. If the Government has taken a decision to transfer the claims of the Sava, d.d. From DUB to SDH, this means that you have the opportunity and that you can also manage or run these companies. Don't say you had nothing to do with this. Why did you recommend to the government not to take over the poultry supply of Ptuj?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u72	Comrade Pogačnik, I do not want to say that the Government has absolutely nothing to do with this, only if it proposes to the National Assembly that a supervisor be dismissed in SDH, we must ask ourselves whether this is the reason that SDH has appointed this overseer or that one. Because I'm afraid we're going to be forced to or the government will be forced to change these supervisors all the time because of every move we make. That was the point of my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u74	44. Article 44 of the Slovenian State Holding is quite clear when the Government may propose the replacement of members of the Supervisory Board when there is a conflict of interest. We're talking about Barbara Smolnikar now, which I hear you can't call her off. Read the Slovenian State Holding Act. The government can't just do that because that's exactly what this was about. You said that the Slovenian State Holding Act is a child of the Janša government. If I were to keep that law proposed by the Yangtze government at the time, the opposition would have a representative in the Supervisory Council for Voting Rights. He doesn't have it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected secretary with a co-worker, a colleague and a colleague! This administration of state property has a very long beard. I remember myself when I was a citizen and, in fact, I followed these matters from the outside of the National Assembly. I know that there has always been a very strong debate on the management of state property. And it has always been that for what the coalition has proposed, the opposition had another proposal on how this should be managed. That's what's happening this time. Finally, we had the Personnel Accreditation Council, which then somehow did not work, we had the AUKN – the Capital Investment Management Agency, since 2013 we have SDH,. I'd say no way, no way, no way, no shape is good enough. However, I think that this government is nevertheless the first to take steps that have in fact led to this state property being managed in one place. She decided what she wanted to do with the state's property. In particular, since the Capital Investment Management Strategy was adopted in July 2015, which states which strategic investments are important, which are portfolios and are now being implemented in some way. The performance criteria for SDH were also adopted in December 2015. These criteria for measuring SDH performance will serve to monitor SDH's performance, i.e. whether SDH's performance will be successful in achieving its objectives or not and whether there will be a significant shift from expectations. The government must respond within and in the manner laid down by the SDH Act and the Company Act. Here, too, the government somehow assumes responsibility for management, in a way as a congregation. Of course, in the end, the government will also be responsible for whether or not this governance will succeed. Of course it's circumstantial. This should also be taken as a lease. Of course, all the things that started to be managed in this way were essentially directed to us. It was the OECD who told us to start better and efficient management of state property. In a way, if not another, some mistrust is created among people, if we continue to argue that it is not good, that it is not enough, that everything is wrong. Of course, people’s reactions are different and different. I still think that, given that we've been discussing this for over thirty hours, man would have said everything. It seems to me that there has been some sort of infertile debates in recent times, without real arguments. Too many details are discussed from company to company, from person to person. It seems to me that judging by the length and breadth of everything is really not going to work. After all, someone who participates in one supervisory world today will be a young person, let’s say that he is thirty years old, because he was once in the supervisory world, after that logic twenty, twenty, twenty years later, he is still discussing how controversial he is, because then that supervisory council did not play a role, even though it has not been proved that he made any wrong decisions. This happens today, too, to be overly judgmental and then not be able to separate the grain from the weeds. It should also be pointed out that, in fact, there is no procedure in this mandate against the persons cited. It seems to me that in Slovenia, even if someone is doing well and successfully, in these debates, there is a very bad habit that is already in advance – even when the results are not yet understood or can not be in such a short time, as in this case – easily destroys and destroys everything. A well-known entrepreneur once stated on Bob that the Slovenians forgive everything, but not success. I would say that the opposition should also have some patience to allow time to prove how SDH will work, what the results will be, and in a year or two it will be perfectly clear how and what was wrong, whether something was wrong. But what if we're already saying something in advance and doing a bad family thing that can work, because we always assume that something won't work, that it will fail? Once in Slovenia, we could assume that something can be successful, despite past bad experiences. I think we are capable of this Slovenian and that this negative energy by the opposition should ever be positive. I also saw this on the European Affairs Committee, when we discussed a successful cohesion policy, so much success was achieved and there was nothing negative that one of your colleagues simply could not listen anymore and went away. I say that there should be a little more patience and that the key decisions that Slovenia must take for the future should bring together its strengths and simply start positive stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must say that the debate that we have all heard together in the National Assembly can truly make anyone sitting here in this Chamber smile. It is very difficult to discuss issues and topics when you have no idea what it is. Then we have such sad discussions in the National Assembly, where time is really wasting. I think it would be only right and good for those who intend to discuss themselves in the National Assembly on topics that we do not know enough – and many times I know that I do not know a particular matter well enough – to be taught. To make an effort and to obtain adequate, quality and correct information so that we can then also discuss equally in the National Assembly, regardless of which party the Member or Member is coming from. Today, I have listened to criticism that the coalition is exerting political pressure on staffing. That's what a fellow SMC said. I think he was wrong about the base. This is not nearly political pressure on staffing, but it is pressure on human resources, for which it is unacceptable to be placed in certain positions, because these are the people who helped make this deep bank hole in our society, which is now being paid bloodyly by our most impoverished citizens and citizens. That's an important question. This is an important and essential difference between what the gentleman has been saying and what we are saying that we are warning. It's a substantial difference. When we talk about transparency in the functioning of the SDH administration, the Supervisory Council and all those connected people, including certain individuals from the ministries of finance and economy, at least I come to the conclusion that there is an octopus here that does not work in the interests of this country, but works solely in the personal interest. This is what is very problematic, which is unacceptable, and what is harmful to this society, to this nation and to our common future. I will now focus on what seems important to me, one part of this debate, and this is Paloma, because this is the case here. I don't usually write things, as you know me, I mostly say without writing them, but there's so much data and stuff here that I wrote things. I think it's so right that I won't accidentally say anything that doesn't hold. I will now try to briefly present the transparency, legality and responsibility of this government, this coalition, the leadership of SDH, the supervisory board and the management board of Paloma, which is still in majority state ownership. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The achievement or even violation of the objectives set out in the management strategy also occurs in the case of the sale of Paloma. Following several failed attempts to sell Paloma to the last tender for this company, a total of 6 interested investors were reported to the media. Their offers are expected to vary by a total of 10 % according to informal information, with Paloma's careful review being made possible only by one of these providers, namely the Polish Finance Fund Abris Capital. The SDH also concluded an investment agreement with this fund, in which it undertook to support the recapitalisation of Paloma under certain conditions, in a way that would exclude the priority rights of existing shareholders and would recapitalise only Abris Capital. If no competitive tender had been submitted under more favourable conditions for the purchase of Paloma, SDH Abris Capital would have sold its ownership stake to Paloma. However, Eco-Invest made a more competitive offer, offering 3.51 euros for the stock, while Abris Capital offered 3.3 euros for the share and Palomo was willing to recapitalise with 18 million euros while Abris Capital was willing to invest 15 million euros in Paloma's recapitalisation. The Eco-Invest raised its offer to 4,01 euros per share during the Paloma Assembly, which would mean that the State would have to recover around 1,7 million euros from the sale of shares than in the case of the sale of Abris Capital. However, at the Paloma Assembly, which was personally attended by SDH President Marko Jazbec, a more competitive offer by Eco-Invest was not accepted if their proposal does not contain a bilaterally binding agreement, which makes SDH doubt the seriousness of the offer. In the sale or recapitalisation process of Paloma, the question is whether the proceedings were conducted in a transparent and competitive manner and whether the highest value target for shareholders, among which the largest state, was pursued. However, the question is also raised whether the sale was carried out in accordance with the objective set out in the management strategy that capital investment sales must be made in a manner that ensures transparency of sales procedures and equal treatment of all tenderers. In particular, because the same as the case of Adrie Airways, Paloma was actually sold to the mailbox. Following the expiry of the time limit for the submission of bids for the purchase of Paloma, Abris Capital established a PPRS Holding based in Cyprus and, as indicated in the minutes of the Paloma Assembly, was actually sold to the PPRS Holding postal mailbox established in the tax haven. Apparently, it is for the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition party – the client of Mira Cerar, Desus or the Democratic Party of Retired Persons and the party, the Social Democrats – that the sale of state-owned companies to postal collectors is part of the professional, transparent and independent management of state-owned companies, which they are committed to in their coalition contract. On the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, convened by its President, my fellow Member, Mr Andrej Šircelj, on my initiative, on the agenda of this Commission, he also listed the privatisation of Paloma as the item on the agenda. This meeting was attended mainly by all stakeholders who participated as an octopus in the so-called attempt at non-transparent acquisition or sale of Paloma. In fact, there were no key answers to my very specific questions. As a team, they all said to each other that the solutions they took were right. The President of the Anti-Corruption Commission was also present, who said: "As President of the Commission, I can say clearly and with all responsibility that even in this particular case," so in the case of Paloma, "shows how virtually all privatisation procedures in the Republic of Slovenia have been untransparent and untransparent since we have been discussing them since then. I say this with all my responsibility as President of the Commission. As a lawyer, I emphasize, there's something else I can say. It is inadmissible for a legal person to take part in the invitation to tender, i.e. Abris, and for another legal person to conclude the contract, who did not participate in the invitation to tender when the conditions are met.’ This other company is PPRS Holding, based in a tax haven in Cyprus, and this company is also the current buyer of Palome if everything works out. To conclude, I must add the following that three actions and two court orders have been brought against such a non-transparent sale procedure for Paloma. I think that these are very tangible facts that say more than enough about how the company's sales process was conducted. I also warn all present that the situation in Paloma is one hundred percent of the responsibility of the company's management and its owners, who have allowed the sale of the company to take place so untransparent and is also the legality of the procedure in the light of the above-mentioned question. At the end of the day, I ask those who both in Paloma and elsewhere are attacking me, which I am advocating that legislation should be respected in Slovenia when selling our property. If we have to sell it, why is it not sold primarily transparently, legally and as a good master? So I ask myself, and I also ask all of you, including my country women and nationals, citizens and citizens, as well as all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia: Is my work really a collection of political points, as some of us in the company - including the Paloma administration - are reading? This is because I advocate that our country girls and countries, who have been creating Paloma for more than a century, and who are real experts in the production and manufacture of paper and paper products, continue to do their work in Paloma. Whether it is better to apply to the Centre for Social Work or to the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia and their jobs in Paloma are taken over by people like this practice now who have never heard of the paper shop before and even come from Primorska. In this case, it is supposed to be about getting my political points. It would be right for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as my citizens and citizens, to answer this question themselves. Is it right for those locals who have been creating Paloma for years and years to lose their jobs, to stay down, to stay down at the Employment Institute, and some from Primorska, who have good connections and so on, to get a job at Paloma? If that's fair, then I really wonder who's running this country right now and who's running it. Finally, the distinguished Secretary of State, we also have one concrete question. I want a concrete answer. How much funding has Paloma spent for 2015 for the purpose of consulting Dr. Pendl from Ljubljana for staff advice to the management of Paloma? When you go to clean up these things a little bit, you will be able to create your own opinion when we are objectively talking about non-transparentness, about corruption – I don't know if there is an expression for it – people who are appointed to such key positions. But they're named by this coalition and this government. It is not enough for me that this coalition and this government assume responsibility for the fact that, in the end, citizens and citizens will suffer the most, namely, those who have absolutely nothing to do with it and have done nothing to blame. But it is right that, as a Member coming from this environment, from Sweet Top, because I am at home where Paloma is positioned, I stand for their rights. I'll do it, I did it, and that's fair and fair. That's why these people voted for me. But it is very sad, and I am disappointed that we also have an MP in the SMC, a lady sitting here in Parliament who is not even reported to debate on this topic. However, such Members or Members of Parliament are probably, I am sure, people in that place do not want to, and they must never choose such a person again, because he does not have the responsibility to stand here for the people who voted for him for the majority. And that's the sad truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In New Slovenia we say that more privatisation is less corruption. We regret that many countries that were created around the same time as Slovenia, about a quarter of a century ago, have come to realize very quickly that they must carry out privatisation procedures, except for some key state-owned companies such as motorways, railways and so on. It is a pity and I am sorry that I cannot now answer directly to Dr. Duck, who is no longer – his tactic is to strike and then run away – who was talking about a socially irresponsible foreign investor who does not want to invest 300,000 euros somewhere. If I were honest, then I could point to a foreign investor, like Lek Lendava, who invested $40 million last year. If God does, and if it's all good luck, we can say in a little while that he's invested $100 million in the last two years. But if I was already in Lendava, because my respected colleague, Mr Göncz and Franc Laj, was talking about Oil Lendava, which is 100% state-owned, people are asking me what I did, what I'm going to do about Oil Lendava, which was once a premier parade horse. What can a parliamentarian do? He can do what he says here. Here's our town to warn and ask the government. Here I demand, not just for the MPs, that the Government prepare an accurate report on what is going on with the oil group and what is the country's vision as 100 % of the owner. The president of the SDH administration said that he had to work in the NLB somehow in terms of his taste if he wanted to privatise NLB by the end of 2017, as ordered by the European Commission's decision on State aid, document SA.33229, of 18 December 2013. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am not running negative energy here, because we have been invited by the SMC to let the opposition have positive energy as well. Of course he does, and I'm about to prove it. I'm warning you, colleagues and colleagues, we're not going to fail the exam. In the decree in the Capital Investment Management Strategy, you wrote that NLB is an investment where the state has to maintain 25% plus one share. As far as I am aware of the European rules on the free movement of capital, I fear that the European Commission will sue the Republic of Slovenia if privatisation follows this formula. Moreover, you also wrote that private capital concentration is prohibited and that it must not exceed the public share. I understand this is contrary to the European Union rules on the free movement of capital. Here I have quite a few judgments from the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, in the context of the free movement of capital, issued judgments when the European Commission, for example, sued the French Republic, the Portuguese Republic, the Kingdom of Belgium and so on. I have cases of judgment. My well-intentioned proposal is to reconsider, but now is the time to perhaps change the Capital Investment Management Strategy as regards the privatisation formula of NLB and, of course, other state investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. We've got some weird situation, some weird three-way. We have a government that says that it is not its responsibility, that everything is on the administrations and supervisory councils of DUTB, SDH, NLB and all the other banks and companies that we have already talked about today, and that, of course, it is also the responsibility of Members who adopt laws. Then we have these companies that say governments are proposing laws, Members are adopting them, and they are acting as this legislation commands them to do. Then we have Members who say that the Government is proposing laws, they confirm them in good faith, and they have nothing to do with those people whom the Government and certain Members of the coalition appoint to the supervisory councils and administrations of DUB, SDH, NLB and so on. During the 18 months of this government, there was so much rust that people were already completely confused. They don't know what the SDH board is, what the SDH board is, what the DUTB is, where those ugly foreigners are, where our leaders of national interest are, who's in the lead of NLB. All they know is that with some simple, healthy farmer, they find that something is wrong and that something has to be done so that they don't end up paying for the question of these three games. They find that they fear that neither the Government nor the coalition nor this society know who is responsible, who is responsible, and everyone is fleeing from who will answer. We have a problem here, but it's called a problem in practice. I believe that in theory it is very nice, because we have legislation, we have a National Assembly, we have a Government and we have different institutions. One example is the management strategy. It is well written that the Government, as the SDH Assembly, gives the National Assembly as the legislator and the Ombudsman of State Property and SDH, as the manager of the country's capital investments, the appropriate basis and responsibility for effective and transparent management, which will be achieved in full by appointing professional and independent members of the supervisory boards and administrations of companies with the capital investment of the country. The end of paragraph states that one of the main objectives of the strategy is also to strengthen the expertise and independence of governance. How's practice? People come back from the naphthalenes who have somehow fainted in the last two or three years. You don't need a master's degree in financial or economic science, you just tap into web browsers and find out who the people returning to SDH's control councils are, in the SDH administration, who takes over the New Ljubljana Bank and each other's businesses. But there are no answers on their side, but if they are, they're flat. We also have the Secretary of State for this area and the Minister of Finance who blames both the responsibility of these companies and, as we have heard today, the task of the National Assembly, and two of them will obviously raise their hands and say that they are not responsible, that everything is in the supervisory councils and administrations of these societies and that politics has nothing to do with it. In particular, I would remind the Members of the Modern Centre Party of their words or, above all, of the words of the current Prime Minister of the Government at a pre-election time. Full mouth of transparency, a stop to conflict of interest, ethics and morality. But when you just look at the web browser, what kind of people are being set up in the leadership of these companies, you see a conflict of interest, untransparentness, which, as a result, also leads to a violation of some standard in ethics and morality, and all of this in some way of defending national interest. When we are at this debate today, whether this debate is necessary or not, we have one very simple solution that will make it easier for the Government to act, to drive us to the National Assembly, probably also to some Bank of Slovenia and, above all, to some supervisory institution, which will no longer have to whitewash its head, how to save this Gordy knot. It's a sell-off. I think we should start, as they say, with the mother of all these things — NLB. If we sold it, the government would be easier to work, the economy would no longer be burdened with politics, the Bank of Slovenia, as regulator, would have much less work and so on. But, of course, we also have SDH and DUTB in addition to NLB, as I have already said, two shortcuts that I am sure of – and I do not want to offend the Slovenian average electorate and the electorate – that voters only know in the clouds what these abbreviations mean, but they only know that they do not bring any good, especially because of those names that we have given them in the management of our bank and our state property. In the absence of State ownership, certain recommendations should also not be accepted. I am truly amazed at the debate of individual coalition Members, where it can be seen that we have a new, modern client who absolutely advocates what is happening, and some two parties with tradition who only feel and know how this has happened in some history, and have some sociopolitical, economic interests to speak as they say. However, I do not understand why it does not support the recommendation, as it appears that the National Assembly expects the Government to determine within 30 days the responsibility of SDH management authorities for decisions in the case of the sale of ownership shares by Adria Airways and Paloma and the discharge and appointment of SDH management and the appointment of the NLB supervisory board. If we really have so much to do with the end of corruption, the end of conflicts, the end of imprudentity, and we want to raise this poor assessment of the National Assembly to a slightly higher level, each Member should press the button to accept such a recommendation. But apparently, to gentlemen who are called new faces, an old network has said that they must not confirm such conclusions. Whether it was to defend national interest or certain kindergartens, I will not even let go, but the fact is that from August 2014 Members of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and SD are responsible for operating in state banks and in state-owned enterprises. You certainly have no right to make excuses that you don't know these people, that you have nothing to do with them. Yes, they should answer, but political responsibility could be said by many. But we are responsible for every pressure on a certain key in the vote. I listen to members of the coalition who say that these people don't even know that I believe in a government that sets up certain people as a congregation. I think that every Member should be so soundly reasonable that at least at a meeting of the parliamentary group or at meetings of coalition parliamentary groups, he might ask whether these are really the best people who, despite known CVs on the web browsers, we can trust such and different functions, or whether we will push our heads into the sand and say that we are not responsible. For the last time in my proposal for appointment to the Fiscal Council, I asked if we really do not have better people and whether we really have to look for old boys with different personal, even family connections, which then cover each other's back, regardless of the function they performed or perform, and they have 90% of one point of interest, which is called the New Ljubljana Bank. When will we be able, both in this national assembly and at all other institutions, to cut through this Gordy knot? As I said before, my proposal is well known. The sale of Nova Ljubljanska banka, New Bank of Maribor and the matter will be easier for everyone. For the government, for the managers, for the supervisors, and not least for us Members as well as for those who adopt legislation, which has recently changed in favour of these old boys instead of breaking these ties. In short, there will be fewer meetings, such as today's, to sell state-owned companies and banks as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor and then Mr Dragonja, State Secretary, has applied.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, we are faced again with one problem that we have in this country, and that is that we do not respect, respect or implement legislation or other documents in certain cases. There was a lot of talk about how this was some attack by the opposition on government decision-making in certain cases. However, this is not a case of flat-rate accusations, but it is a case of specific cases that my colleagues have said a lot about. It is said that it is not automatic to deny any legislation that has been adopted, but it is not a denial of a strategy that has been adopted without our votes, but we do not flatten, we do not accuse the whole, a system that works. We have noted certain anomalies, but they are in some ways very problematic. The fact is that we have not received any answer in this regard. If you look at the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy Decision on governance objectives, it speaks about how regulated corporate governance is important from the point of view of the whole country and its economic efficiency, efficiency and competitiveness, as it reduces the risk of companies failing to operate. It also says that the country has a key role to play in this regard, as good practice, good practice and good practice must be actively incorporated into the development and enforcement of corporate governance standards and good practices. I think we all agree with this, but it is these very examples that we have witnessed in certain cases that we are talking about today that do not confirm this rise in corporate governance culture. If we have listened to the Minister, who said in the introduction that we are responsible for this, we are those who are sitting in the National Assembly, because we have confirmed the supervisors, then you have to ask yourself whether we respect the documents we accept. It also says here: "The SDH, as a country's capital investment manager, must pursue the long-term interest of companies that can be exclusively economic objectives, national strategic objectives, combination of both and at the same time focused on the sustainable development of societies and on the establishment of such a ownership structure that will in the long term ensure effective management, competitiveness and successful development." I have not received any reply and I have probably not received any reply from my fellow Member and colleague, nor is it likely that this article, which we have in the written-up strategy, will apply in the cases of Paloma or in the case of Adria, which is even more symptomatic. In the case of Adria, it is a recapitalisation of €3.1 million to be implemented by the State, and then a company that was established just before the present will buy the whole thing for €100,000. This is as if you were to rebuild the used car at home and then “shut” it. It's clear to anyone who wants to give me an answer. Another reference in this strategy and this resolution: "The very important task of SDH in management is the appointment of professional and experienced members of the Human Resources Commission and the supervisory authorities of companies with the capital investment of the State, so the SDH administration must consistently, transparently and responsibly carry out all procedures for obtaining and appointing candidates, including the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions, as provided for by the Slovenian State Holding Act. The basis for this is the transparent and professional appointment of SDH members, which must be ensured with the utmost care by the SDH Supervisory Board, whose members are proposed by the Government and appointed by the National Assembly in accordance with the prescribed procedure and conditions laid down by the law." We have heard quite a few warnings about how individual supervisors have been appointed, since they do not comply with the references, that individual licences are granted one day before someone is appointed to be named at some night meetings, that neither Bank of Slovenia nor the IMF have yet agreed to appoint these supervisors. If you compare this with this Article in a decision that you have endorsed and adopted, you must look in the mirror and ask yourself whether these indications in the Management Strategy Decision are actually fulfilled. Furthermore, in this strategy or in this resolution, which is a commitment to SDH: "In general, investments determined by the strategy for important or strategic purposes may be made available to USDH-1 of the minimum shares prescribed, with the aim of increasing the core capital by means of real and/or cash deposits of private investors, with companies using the resulting inputs exclusively to increase the value of each investment and to ensure the appropriate conditions for the further development of the company". We have not received an answer either at Adria or at Paloma, who provides all these conditions that you have written down in this document. There's no answer to that. It further states in this paragraph: "In making the most important investments available, the country's capital investment manager will pursue objectives that are important in terms of stable economic growth and are in line with State aid rules such as: employment, competitiveness and performance of companies, improvement of public services and the development of companies in the future". There is no answer to how, for these two cases, where the recipient is a postal mailbox in the tax haven, you will ensure the conditions that you have accepted and written in a document imposing the rules of the game in case of acquisitions. None of these conditions were likely to be met, in particular there is no document showing how employment will be ensured, how economic growth of these companies will be ensured and so on. But it's written in this document that you've accepted. The strategy continues: "The objective of capital investment sales is to secure liquidity gains from a budgetary perspective, and therefore it is important to achieve as much land as possible". In the case of Paloma, no tenderer has been selected to make the highest bid and to ensure the best conditions, but a competitive tender has been chosen. Someone could explain it and probably have some arguments. In the case of Adria, we know that we recapitalised it with 50 million in 2011. At that time, everyone ensured that this was the last recapitalisation that would allow this company to function normally on the international market. After four, five years is recapitalisation and sales. Like I said, let's fix one thing, put some money in it and give it to someone later. If someone could explain it, maybe someone would have bought it, maybe they would have convinced me, but there are no clear guarantees about it. Therefore, it is our little talk by the coalition when it says that we want to be inclined in this case to rely on some newspaper articles and to block the strategy on average and so on. We refer only to specific cases to which we would like to receive answers, and we point to the problem that you will face if similar appointments and similar sales continue to take place. We have not challenged all sales at this time and all appointments in all the companies that this coalition has carried out. We've alerted the specifics. And if not only in the media, but also on websites for certain people, we find that they are not acceptable to a function, I don't know if you need special commissions to find out. Apparently not just uncles from some background, but you had to import some even from naphthalene, because some of them were long overdue. To talk about how difficult it is to tell someone that it is not appropriate when we find on the Internet and in the public media that he was responsible for making a bank hole or for the flood of some companies in the past, there is no clear signal for you that such a person is not acceptable. On the other hand, you have many words about how young people should be placed in positions of responsibility because they are more capable of bringing back professionally trained personnel from abroad. In this case, you had a lot of options. There is probably quite a few people abroad who work in international financial institutions and could be included in this story, which takes place within our country in this restructuring, and you have not done so. You spoke in a story when it was necessary, it is said at a pre-election time, how to take care of young people, how to prevent the brain from escaping, and when appropriate services are available in Slovenia, you obviously do not do so. There was also no response to how in certain cases the Government can directly influence certain decisions on what will be done with individual shares in companies. In the case of Telekom, it was, for example, an excuse that the government should not give its opinion because of corporate governance, and in the case of Sava, it is a direct order to what someone within this system must do and how to recapitalise a particular matter. The same is true of Factor Bank and Probanka, where it was a non-transparent connection. Those of you who have been in Parliament for a long time remember the debate when the first rehabilitation of the Factor Bank and Probank was, how the majority of the National Assembly choked, that it was necessary to establish the responsibility to obtain certain data from this title when the vote was held, and you know what it was. This decision did not receive support and the same is true in this case. You're sealing your eyes before certain facts. It used to be the SMC's speech about overriding. Yes, good morning, since you've been in the government and in the coalition story for some time now, you might as well have made some kind of marriage, not just waiting for the opposition to tell you what's wrong if you're talking about overriding. Try and do something about it. There was also much talk about the need to leave corporate decision-making on the one hand and the rules enshrined in strategies and legislation, but the SMC members in the same breath also spoke about the fact that the policy that sets something up is not necessarily bad. So, at the same time, talk about whether appointment should be independent, and on the other hand, you apologize to yourself if you have appointed bad people. Consider whether you will respect the legislation that has been adopted and the strategies or will seriously get involved in the appointment, take responsibility for it, and in some way may improve or make it worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, has the floor. Let's get Mr. Tillen Christmas ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The key question for government representatives here is whether today's discussion will contribute to better and more successful governance of state assets. There were a lot of words spoken, there was a lot of chatter. The aim of this rumbling is primarily to give the public an image of how the management of state property is problematic, inefficient, poor. Of course, the principles of parliamentary democracy allow this, in fact, Parliament exercises control over the functioning of the Government, including the functioning of other institutions in the country, indirectly also over the functioning of such institutions as the Slovenian State Holding or other managers. However, it is necessary to say that if you repeat a tenfold thesis, even if it is not the most appropriate or if it is not true, after you mention it ten times, it actually comes to the public on a certain scale. So we would like, above all, to cut down on the arguments in this debate. In the introduction, the Minister gave some guidance or some positions, according to which principles the Government operates in this segment. The government aims to implement comparable international standards in the field of public property management following good practices and OECD recommendations. The first issue I would like to highlight today is that the government deviates from its own Capital Investment Management Strategy. You have taken this strategy very critically when we brought it to the National Assembly, and you are now very consistently quoting it in the proposal itself and also in some discussions. The relevance of this strategy – it is right that it is subject to criticism – will continue to improve, but it has set up a framework in which we want to go, and it has presented some compromise between different views on the management of state property, in particular as regards privatisation, how much to privatise, how much assets to keep in state ownership or gradually then change ownership structure. Therefore, there is a certain contradiction in this part. In fact, with great criticism of this strategy, the issue is that the Government does not respect it or does not implement it. The second thesis is a matter that is also very relevant. Is the government successful enough to manage state assets? Is it effective enough? Under this management model, which is implemented, targets and indicators are set for the entire state assets complex, for all 12 billion capital investments. The Minister presented what is expected from this bloc of economies, what financial contribution to public finances should be made and what broader national economic aspects should then follow, including in terms of non-financial objectives. This will be measurable, the first results for 2014 – according to the indicative starting points that have been set – will be known by the end of March, we will report to the National Assembly and in this part the National Assembly will be able to express its criticism. We are open to criticism and are working in this direction to improve this management. The third thesis is sensitive. The key question is whether the Government and the SDH authorities have had a good hand in the recruitment of certain key positions. This is the most delicate topic in this discussion. It begins with the recruitment and proposing of SDH supervisors. There were some simplifications in the discussions. Let's say the government appoints SDH supervisors, that was in a few discussions. The government proposes SDH supervisors, appointed by the National Assembly. In a similar discussion held by the National Assembly in November, we have already stressed this and would like to point out once again that in this part the possibilities of the government as SDH Assembly's influence on the functioning of SDH are also limited. The government can't call off SDH monitors on its own. Only the National Assembly can call off SDH supervisors. In this part of the idea that the Government can do something on a case-by-case basis to convene a congregation and so on, this is not in accordance with the legal provisions nor with the principles of corporate governance. The government can only convene the SDH Assembly if it is called by the management. However, management usually convenes it if it fails to obtain the approval of the Supervisory Board. The government cannot convene the SDH Assembly and discuss business. The SDH Assembly could only be convened if the supervisors or the administration did not do so, as regards the approval of the annual report or other similar matters laid down in the law. This is said to mean that the system of administration of state property under the SDH Act is set in such a way that there is a certain distinction between the powers of the National Assembly and the Government and the powers of SDH autonomy. I would ask that we take this into account gradually and buy it. This divide is established and the autonomy of SDH in this part is a key part of this segment. Given the many issues that have been raised here today and are very relevant, actually SDH should be sitting here, not the Government. With regard to the conduct of individual privatisation procedures, the Minister made it very clear that neither the Ministry nor the Government – except for the appointment of the SDH Supervisory Board – would want to interfere with the human resources decisions that SDH must manage on its own. In this part, the Ministry and the Government are primarily the creators of a system framework in which SDH works, which is set by a strategy set out in the Annual Management Plan and also by the objectives and criteria set for SDH. If we combine this with the Public Property Company Management Code adopted by SDH, then this is a basic framework set by the Government and the National Assembly together to put this model of corporate governance into effect in this part. The idea that the government is closing in on what's going on in the field of staffing is two-faced. The government can't directly interfere with SDH personnel procedures. There were some discussions here, too, in this direction. As far as management and some of the cases of certain companies that have been exposed are concerned, we all know that we have different national asset managers, that there are claims in addition to the capital shares here and that DUTB is also an important operator. The Government's decision to transfer assets or claims transferred to a bad bank to the management of SDH from the current DUTB manager is very problematic. In this part, when it comes to the State or the Government, as a congregation, assessing that it is reasonable for certain reasons to replace the operator of a particular investment or property, this does not constitute a direct intervention in the business decision itself or in how the process is conducted. This decision of the Government was taken after a very thorough consideration based on the fact that something in this regard is defined by a strategy concerning tourism and especially this hotel chain, which is the largest in Slovenia, and that SDH is estimated to be a more suitable long-term owner than in the given situation this DUB. In fact, this transfer is justified. This transfer has not yet been implemented, it is quite complex. At this point, it is at some decisive stage in terms of legal formulations or conditions for this transfer, but this does not mean that it protects some people or networks on its own, but comes from the strategic role of tourism and that we would like to see the direction that has been defined in the strategy in the largest tourist chain. In fact, the strategy is a fundamental guide to which we return when it comes to assessing individual decisions for which the Government must give its consent through the annual management plan or through other documents that are guidance documents. This discussion should also be seen from the perspective of the investment climate, which is formed in the Republic of Slovenia. That's what the minister specifically pointed out. The investment climate needs to be assessed from the perspective of foreign investors coming to Slovenia, as well as from the perspective of domestic investors, who can make the most of their investments in Slovenia. It's a driver of development, a driver of economic growth. In one of the last publications I have on this topic, as regards investment climate and dynamics in Slovenia, this shows that direct foreign investment in Slovenia was made in the form of transactions entered by investors, EUR 870 million. I can also present to you the rankings of these major corporate acquisitions. In the first place is the privatisation of New Credit Bank Maribor, followed by the entry of Heineken into Pivovarno Laško, then the stories related to the entry of new owners into Trimo, Perutnine Ptuj, Bakery Grosuplje, Iskro Protection, Fito, Gorenje Surovina, Campina Hotel – these are all transactions that have together reached the value of EUR 870 million, which are linked to the specific decisions of concrete investors, which are the result of demanding procedures that have been conducted under all the rules of the profession and which have been successfully completed. Then we are basically comparable to the countries in the Central Eastern Europe region. The biggest criticism in this part is that the privatisation of Telekom has been unsuccessfully completed. Under the circumstances, much effort has been made to privatize Telekom. The reference transaction for SDH was the sale of 49% of the Slovak telecom package, which was sold for EUR 900 million. Our sales package was above 70% of the ownership package, about half the value of this reference transaction. It's just a basic rule. Even though we are very controversial about what was wrong with this transaction, if the objectives are not achieved, there is no condition for such things to be done. As regards some of the points raised in the discussion. All processes taking place in SDH, especially the human resources processes, require a high level of protection against potential corruption and other risks related to integrity, so this area – this is a real emphasis in the SDH itself – is also very much on the SDH supervisory board and is always very careful to avoid conflicts of interest. In this part, questions were already raised as to the appointment of SDH supervisors and the assessment that there was a conflict of interest between one of the supervisors. Here it must be said that in its disclosure to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Lady who is having a certain exposure to the potential conflict of interest in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, and she has already written in her statement of integrity that she will be excluded from any decisions related to the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank or to any conflict of interest in the sale of NLB, where she will be excluded from the decision-making process if it is assessed that this conflict of interest exists. However, the law provides precisely that SDH supervisors must make a declaration identifying themselves until there is a possible conflict of interest. These questions were repeatedly explained in the working bodies of the National Assembly. At the last meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, it was also clarified exactly how the process of recruitment and appointment of supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank was carried out. It is explained that this was a preliminary assessment of the suitability of these candidates, according to the system established in SDH, that, in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank will carry out an ex post assessment of the suitability of the already appointed supervisors. The policy of the honourable Member of Mr Logar, what we wrote in the Government's explanation, what are the criteria for supervisors of banks or the New Ljubljana Bank. Article 34 of the Banking Act, as prescribed by Article 34, is correct in this quotation from the Member. When the Banking Act was adopted, the possibility of such a dictatorship being modified or modified was, on the principle of the division of power between the executive and the legislative branches. By my criteria – which are not so legal-formalistic but more substantive – is what has been denied, diversity, complementarity of skills, knowledge and experience. In the business world, it's usually called diversity on board, it's called diversity on the board. However, to quote from the website what demographic aspects are and so on, I think it also partly reflects a unilateral view of this situation. Once again, he had to follow the guidelines published by the Bank of Slovenia on the composition of the Supervisory Boards in the recruitment of the Supervisory Boards of the New Ljubljana Bank, which was carried out by SDH. Otherwise, we have no intention of protecting SDH's decision. It is correct that SDH decisions, especially as regards personnel decisions, are subject to criticism by the public and critics of Parliament, but when such sensitive issues are raised, it would be expected that the Members involved in the adoption of laws take this into account that, especially in the case of supervisors of the largest system bank, there are several laws that we also have a partial conflict of laws or that these legislative provisions should be considered together. The relevant session of the Management Authorities of the New Ljubljana Bank is a key condition for the success of privatisation. This has been highlighted several times. Without complying with the requirements of the Bank’s regulator regarding full employment and the competence of the Supervisory Board, and in particular with respect to the independence of the Bank’s Supervisory Board, it is practically on the road map, but the placement of the share in an organised capital market with international classification in one of the international markets cannot be achieved successfully. However, we all know that the deadlines laid down here are because the commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia under the State aid procedure require a relatively rapid approach to these activities. Once again, we would not want to protect any SDH decision on specific staffing. The next stage of checking the suitability of these candidates by the bank regulator will be carried out. In this part, if a correction is needed, the SDH administration is responsible for these procedures and will have to remedy this error. Response to Mr Horvat's discussion on this condition for 25% ownership in the New Ljubljana Bank, including in the framework of the privatisation process. This is a provision which is also provided for in commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. This is due to the fact that NLB is a system bank and, as the European Commission has also understood, that partial state ownership of privatisation can also be an acceptable option in systemic banks. In this part, the strategy has also confirmed such guidance because the strategy provides for the exact privatisation of 75% minus one share and privatisation by placing this share on the capital market. For the time being, this solution is consistent with the acceptance of Slovenia's commitments and is in line with the management strategy. Mr Horvat also drew attention to the provision on the dispersion of ownership, which could be disruptive in terms of limiting the free movement of capital. These arguments are weighed, assessed, and will then be a key element in deciding how to implement this privatisation. However, by definition, if we are dealing with the placement on the capital market, this alone implies a larger number of investors, a dispersion of ownership. However, this provision will be thoroughly reviewed once again, not only with domestic experts, this will be a key part of the review and will also be in the preparation of the documents for placement on the capital market. In this case, if such an assessment is to be made, it will be necessary to propose a change to the strategy, which is also being prepared. With regard to the specific comments made to the individual procedures led by SDH in the privatisation of Adria in the privatisation of Paloma. We had extensive special meetings of the Commission for the supervision of public finances with detailed explanations. I am sorry that Mr Pojbič is not who is very critical in this process. Let me first explain that the government's position is that it is difficult or unable to interfere with the procedures under way. Any reaction of the Government to procedures that are in high privatisation dynamics is the destruction of the investment climate. That's what I'm asking you all to respect. As far as Paloma is concerned and the dilemma surrounding the selection of one of the two investors competing at this stage is concerned, it should be pointed out that 99% of Paloma shareholders voted in favour of the proposed privatisation. 99%. The will of the shareholders is quite important here. Only one percent did not agree that this was one of the proposed investors. This one percent has now initiated legal remedies, provisional orders, counter-claims and so on. So it is a very hard fight to challenge this will of shareholders in some way. However, it is contested that the procedure was conducted in an irregular or imprecise manner. Whether it has been conducted transparently or not, it will now have the opportunity to judge the court. Transparency in international practices and standards is assessed and, as it is said, the Court will give its opinion. It is not irrelevant, however, that according to the information we have at the Ministry, a competing tenderer was unable to submit financial guarantees. Without financial guarantees, however, it is virtually impossible to complete or conclude a binding business, which would then lead to a final decision on who will enter the company. Extensive discussions were held in the home work bodies with regard to these so-called postal collectors or companies established in these equity entry procedures in the privatisation or acquisition process. These are so-called dedicated companies, which are common in the European legal order, which are also provided for in our legislation. In any event, for these companies, all the obligations entered into in these privatisation procedures — for the payment of the purchase — for the fulfilment of all further obligations, must be financially guaranteed by their trust funds, which normally enter into the procedure. This is a practice that is common in the world and is particularly common in Europe. If we restrict this practice, we can also get into a situation where we are being assessed to limit the free movement of capital. In this context, it is the responsibility of SDH to assess consistently this financial review of customers and all these legal aspects and thus to maximize risk elimination as regards any deviations from commitments provided for in such acquisitions or privatisation procedures. That would be a few of these basic points. The government will endeavour to continue to manage this segment of state property as responsibly as possible. In view of the fact that I have been exposed to personal exposure several times, I just want to say that we are doing this function — both personally and in the public interest alone. I have no personal interest in managing this function. I don't feel like a member of any network, I work at the Ministry from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., I don't even have time to connect to any networks. In this part I am in principle obliged to give this explanation to the Commission.It is crystal clear to me what is the public interest, that it is first of all, and what is a private interest. All I want to do is explain these suggestions or the criticisms that have been given in two discussions, that there will be no doubt. The government will continue to work in this direction to ensure that the governance framework leads towards achieving the objectives of this governance and to create conditions for raising the level of corporate governance, especially in SDH, as well as in DUTB. There's been a little less talk about DUTB today. There have also been some discussions about how we actually started the practice of poor staffing with staff exchanges in a bad bank. I would like to draw particular attention here to the fact that unilateral estimates, that foreign operators will set a significantly better standard of corporate governance or government management relative. An extraordinary meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision was called upon by the NSI Group on the issue of inadequate asset management in some cases managed by the DUTB. In particular, representatives of T2, Autotechne and some other companies that highlighted the principles of how DUB manages its activity, how inappropriate this was. This coincided with the dismissal of some members of the SDH Management Board and then the direction of this meeting changed. But also here it is necessary to say that, on the one hand, there is also a need to ensure the breadth of governance in this work and that international experience is always welcome, but not in every situation guaranteed that best practices are also being implemented. The Government has thus assessed that it is necessary to renovate the DUTB supervisory board and that the DUTB also ensure that the management of this part of the assets managed by DUTB creates conditions for this management to achieve objectives which, in the case of DUTB, are slightly different, following in particular the payment of the liabilities incurred by taking over the Bad Assets balance sheet of the Company for the management of bank receivables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u87	Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare for Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. It is certainly my opinion that the situation in this area is not yet ideal. We've taken some big steps. One of these was, as I have already said in the Member's position, that the State Property Management Strategy has been adopted, because it is not enough that someone is trying to accept something or is trying to introduce something, but the aim is, in the end, to do it. This actually sets one good framework, one good foundation. In some ways, the practice is still being built up, it is being upgraded, there may also be some sidetrack, some kind of mistake, and this will definitely reveal the time. In this process, it is particularly important that we learn to manage risks as quickly as possible or that we recognize them and also take appropriate action when they occur. It is also welcome that some of us share these experiences that you have had with the management of state property and with the operation in this area. Before that, my colleague Logar wondered about the egg and the chicken what had happened before. According to his client's tradition, they were in this house before both, at least compared to SMC. They have certainly shown some of their practices and expertise regarding governance. After all, there was also a Member here who had an important role either in the Court or when we were talking about the DUTB, or when we were talking about some secretarial position in the Government, or the Prime Minister. What then relates to this practice is to take care of this state property, because, after all, it is a fact that good preparation for work is at least as important as work alone, experience in searching for the establishment of a bank hole. If we go to look at different years, say from 2004 to 2017, we went with an external debt of 15 to 32 billion. Usually, this grew to about 10% at the annual level, and in those years, we suddenly decided to grow between 15% and 30%, as far as external debt is concerned. Also, as for other indicators at that time, they somehow indicated that it would likely be a catharsis or a landing, and it happened. Some governments have already done so, and our government is finally working on it. And this is not the last thing we are doing in the National Assembly, that this situation is somehow being remedied. If we move forward, we have also talked about the reputation of how certain things benefit, certain things harm this country. But I think there are some positive stories that have been happening lately. Finally, we also talked about different rankings on the scales, when it went down, now that we're going up, we've dropped it a little bit, but let's say on the World Bank scale we came from 35th to 29th, on the IMD scale from 55th to 49th, on the scales prepared by the World Economic Forum, we came from 70th to 59th. As we have fallen rapidly, we are now rapidly climbing, as we have come to such small and export-oriented economies, which can also be relatively responsible. If I go back to those experiences as far as selling different funds is concerned. We've been talking about Alpina in this house recently, and it's all in that story. We have that story of labor ownership where the majority of the workers had a share, and then it obviously collapsed and it came to pass this asset to the country. Then we had the next phase when it came to the fund, from that stage back to the country and so on. There is certainly no shortage of experience in this country, we have good and bad stories, regardless of who was involved — whether they were workers, whether they were a country, or whether they were a private investor. However, there is always a need to look for good practices and build on those ahead. The secretary has already been in charge of those dedicated companies. Of the 10 largest capital funds, all work in this way, including the EBRD, in this way and many others. Then there was also talk about various mailboxes and that they were supposed to be Cyprus, Luxembourg and such countries of the oasis. I don't know, maybe you should call them and ask them if that's true. I don't think that's true. After all, your government, when we are talking about SDS, has prepared one relatively good document for when the day was out, that the blacklist has been defined or established, that people also somehow knew how to act, when to account for the tax evasion and so on when payments are made to this country. I don't think there's any Cyprus or Luxembourg in there. Well, there's not a lot of other countries that could be there, but okay, these two are definitely gone and there's no need to be there. In addition, Slovenia has such tax legislation that it cannot, in principle, be harmed, at least not by us. Then there's another interesting connection. Although I am not some lawyer for those who have recently been appointed to positions of responsibility, if someone makes the thesis that at the time of work in a company's administration there have been 2 billion investment cuts, it is called balance-sheet cleaning. Especially if this happens after that headless borrowing and the granting of short-term loans, it smells more like sobering than malfunctioning. In the last few seconds, I'd like to take advantage of one more thing. Something flew on my colleague Vervego, who did not report to the debate, and this came from Mr Pojbič. He is already quite a few mandates in this National Assembly, and he can probably see from this long experience in this house how much he has done so far with regard to the society he mentions, namely, the Canary Paloma. Like his words to her, his electorate may decide in a short time whether he has done or done enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u89	Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Janka Weber and the Magi. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The bank hole was created in contravention of international standards and even in total contravention of existing internal standards. Why did it come about, how did it come about, what and who caused it? Its Recovery — Is It At All, and How Is It Successful? These 5 billion and more, to the extent that they have been invested – How does it return to the budget, they will return to the budget at all, why, why not? Can the story repeat itself, and why, why not? Why do we all suffer the consequences? Can and how can causes be addressed? The basic concepts are not clear and there is no real information to clear up these matters. If democratic institutions are unable to answer such and similar questions clearly and publicly, then something is seriously wrong with the rule of law. Or maybe she's just gone. Has she ever been? If it wasn't, why not? But if she was, how come she didn't react? How is it established and strengthened? Who and how can do this? Probably this Parliament, government, justice, supervisors, Bank of Slovenia. We must find a way for all of us to answer these questions together. And especially because he left the bank with the real money, and after so many years, we don't have the answer to where he went.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u91	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Andrej Shircelj and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u92	Thank you for your word and a good evening to all. I think we must all be aware that the social property that has been supported has been entrusted to us by the people who have authority in the country. We were elected to the National Assembly. The National Assembly appoints the Government and the Government is the one who must then carry out these tasks at operational level. I don't remember the law or the law allowing people to sell assets in a non-transparent or speculative way. We do not have this consensus on the part of the people, and I think that we must be aware of this first and foremost in these matters. It is certainly necessary to pursue those objectives that allow for the continued existence and development of companies, jobs, new investments, open new markets and maintain or ensure higher added value and thus better quality jobs. These are the objectives that we also have in the Capital Investment Management Strategy, but there have been a number of decisions in practice so far, both in the National Assembly and in state asset managers that do not follow all these activities. Personally, I have always opposed these decisions, which were untransparent, unconscionable. I have also opposed that decision on the sale of 15 companies as well as the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding because it is a departure from the fact that the National Assembly – and thus of course the people – has sufficient effective control over this operation. Finally, in his opening statement today, the Minister of Finance very clearly illustrated how he views the management of state assets, that the National Assembly should not, in fact, be involved in this issue and should not be involved in this subject at all. With this he merely further justified my warnings that this way of governance, as it is trying to present it, is contrary to what the people have entrusted to us. As we then follow the specific procedures that are taking place in these sales, I believe that cases of really bad practices can be obtained. Let me remind you of Telekom, where Telekom had to be sold on his nose by the 11th of April of last year, and it wasn't even important to the security of the country, and no criteria here mattered. This has not happened, but later let us see how it is through Apollo, a speculative fund that has previously become or attempted to become the owner of one of the system banks in Slovenia, the Telekom administration decides to go along with Apollo to purchase a Serbian telecom. This is supposed to be done in a way that would actually make a real contribution to this company right into the shares of our Telekom. Then Apollo would actually hire a loan that would be secured by this real estate, i.e. with the property of Telekom Slovenije. If this activity had been carried out and the Government of the Republic of Serbia had decided to sell, especially to Apollo and our Telecom, it would not have received a cent in the state budget and, of course, no dividends from this company. In fact, we would lose control of this company, from 75% of the ownership would fall to 30% of the share, and at the same time, of course, all the dividends and everything that would happen would be paid off by Apollo's loan. But then the finance minister did not react and warned that something harmful was going on, that something harmful could happen. It took too long, too long, for the state to even regain voting rights in Telekom and Petrol, the two most important companies. These voting rights in these key companies have been really over-recovered, which shows that there are no conditions for transparent management of our assets. This case of Telekom is aimed at trying to reach this property with some bypass, which, of course, indicates that certainly neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government had decided on this, at least in the light of what was publicly published, had not discussed it, but the process was still going on. If we look at some of the procedures that have been completed and are ultimately linked to that conclusion of the 15 companies. Of course, one of these activities is also the subject of a debate initiated by the opposition, and it is right that the opposition initiates this debate, which is its primary task, and that is why we are organised. At the same time, it is the control of the coalition and the government, and the National Assembly has the opportunity to actually play its part if it considers that it does not have confidence in those who manage the assets. When we look at the sale of Adrie Airways, even the sale of Adrie Airways Technika, which had extremely high technology, knowledge and also the trust of airlines for aircraft servicing, was initiated. Adria Airways Technika was also sold to a Polish company which, according to this information available to us from the media, did not have the confidence of airlines to service aircraft to a greater extent. When she bought our Adrio Techniko, she assured herself this, but of course also the impact on the operation of this company and certainly also the outflow of a good share of the added value of the profits from this company, not in the state budget, not in the state company Adria Airways, but in this Polish fund. The airport itself was sold for, in this case, a really high amount, but as a result, the development of the terminal construction process, which our airport had virtually closed with its own resources and European resources, was interrupted. In fact, they would become a more competitive destination than, say, nearby airports in this region. Today, we are faced with the fact that at the Aerodrome, in fact, it is only investing in the modernisation of "barriers" and internal equipment, internal organisation, which is not development, that is, in fact, just a few beautifying activities that allow passengers to get to the ticket early and nothing else. In order to contribute to greater transport, this would contribute to a greater role in the region, of course, far from it. In short, these are examples that actually show that we are not paying enough attention to how this property is managed, how it is sold. And in this untransparent way, I stress that we do not have this agreement. Something similar must have happened with the New Credit Bank Maribor. It is not customary for you to recapitalize the system bank for 800, sell it for 200, and take on more obligations, that if subordinate liabilities are defined as non-derogable, we will actually take on this obligation. So we actually gave this 800 million to some kind of fund. This is a very serious issue that we must certainly discuss. It is true, however, that many of the proposals we receive from the opposition point to these irregularities, but at some point they also skip that phase when it comes to determining responsibility for doing so. It is right that we are actually trying to follow all these processes, and if we assess somewhere that it is incompatible and a conflict of interest, then it is only right that this conflict of interests should actually be determined by the Commission to prevent corruption in accordance with its competences, and then, of course, it is up to the Government to react, to settle it. If that is not done, then it is up to the National Assembly to resolve the supervisory council and again justify people’s confidence that something was untransparent through this way. In some proceedings, legislation allows us, imposes, gives us this competence, but of course we must not skip all of these obligations in a way that we forget some of the findings, which are crucial for these procedures to fail. Therefore, a number of conclusions have also been rejected in the current stages because they did not run exactly for the whole procedure. I would point once again to what I have also mentioned in the opening act on behalf of the Group Member. With the Slovenian State Holding Act, we pledged that KAD will be transformed into an independent and autonomous demographic reserve fund by 31 December 2015 at the latest. This property must also be designed to ensure the long-term charging of the pension allowance and thus the reward of all people who have created this property in the future. This is something that really needs to be realized, and then this property will be managed so that this fund will be properly filled. It would also be appropriate to set up equity funds for employees from this state property, with which they are then owned by employees, i.e. people who own it. This would be the appropriate form of governance and also the confidence of policy towards people and vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u93	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We are on our way to the end, and it is certainly a question of what such a meeting will bring. It will certainly bring a warning to all and an awareness of the actual state of government. The information that is actually the most shocking is the message to the Minister of Finance that this should not be discussed. I have a question for him whether we're going back to another system, a totalitarian system where certain things were not to be talked about and not to be talked about. The harmfulness of this is also highly controversial. Probably the most damaging thing is that sales are carried out in a non-transparent and, even on the basis of insufficient data, that human resources policy is happening in a way that actually comes into line with those people who have also had certain negative consequences or have carried out certain acts that have harmed Slovenia, both in terms of the bank hole and in terms of certain privatisations. That's one thing. Another issue is that we will keep in mind in the Slovenian Democratic Party such problems, including such irregularities that are taking place in the performance of state assets. We are very sorry that the coalition does not support us in some proposals which are relatively neutral and which have benefited all citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u95	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer are given the floor. [[adverts from benches]] Before that? A debate? Okay, no problem. First, I give my word to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Mark Pogačnik, and then we're moving on to the part I've been predicting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u96	Mr President, thank you for the floor. After approximately 7 hours of debate today, I am convinced that the request for a call made by the three parliamentary groups was justified, as the fact is that, in today's debate, of the 7 members of the 6 groups of Members, it has somehow attached to all our views and concerns about the management of state property. In doing so, it should be emphasized that two members of the Government also had part of the critical debate. I am sure that this is the step that we have decided to take, but the fact is that we do not care what happens to state property or what consequences the taxpayers will have in the near future due to the risks that exist in this administration of state property. The fact is that all those warnings and the threats we have been alerted to in adopting the administration of state property in amending the Slovenian State Holding Act are now reflected in practice. Regardless of all, I think that in today's debate only the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre has not followed or confirmed certain thesis that we have mentioned. We are certainly convinced that the administration of state property by the Government of Mir Cerar and the SMC, SD and Desus coalition is not appropriate. It's not appropriate, it's not effective, it's not transparent. As a result, there is likely to be a high risk that the proceeds of the sale or management will not be as likely as it could be. In particular, some of the human resources moves that we have already mentioned are at issue, as representatives of the Government have not explained during today's meeting why they have replaced the management of the Slovenian State Holding. The fact is that there was an invitation to appoint an additional member of the board at that time, and then a decision was made at the night meeting to dismiss both the President of the Board and one member of the Board of the Slovenian State Holding. Recruitment to the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank. A lie from the Secretary of State, which he said in connection with the request of the Bank of Slovenia to replace the first supervisory New Ljubljana Bank, Mr Podbevška. The fact is, in all the storms that are being carried out both by the general public and by the professional public, this coalition then starts to behave differently. The fact is that during today's debate, the SD Group and the Desus Group have made it clear that there is also a bitter taste in the recruitment of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank and in the management and control council of the Slovenian State Holding. It must be said that the government is still somehow avoiding itself. I would do it directly once with state property, and secondly, it gives all these powers to SDH management bodies. Then why did you transfer the claim from DUB to the Slovenian State holding company? You've given the actual direct task with this. I am also interested in how the Slovenian State Holding will be able to bear this financial burden. According to some information, the transfer of this claim requires 42 million. It should be pointed out that the main mission of the Slovenian State Holding is likely to continue to settle all legal obligations. The previous management also said that additional education is likely to be needed, in particular in order to address the legal obligations under the asset disposal plan. You've given a direct assignment here, even though you're saying you shouldn't interfere. The fact is, the government has to propose a replacement of the supervisory board, but it cannot simply propose it. Four indents dictate when the Supervisory Board can be replaced in conflict detection at all, in the determination of irregularities. The second is the fact that the Government avoids the responsibility as a assembly to exercise the tasks and powers of the Government, both in the DUTB and in the Slovenian State Holding. At least the Slovenian State Holding Act does not take any of the powers of the Assembly as set out in the Company Act. So here, Sir Dragonja, you're trying to let a little fog into certain things. We probably have this right in the opposition to point out certain things to remind us of certain risks in the sale of state property, mentioned by two companies, Adria Airways and Paloma. I am still convinced that there is great doubt that Master Barbara Smolnikar does not meet the criteria for a member of the Supervisory Board, which is ordered by the Slovenian State Holding Act. I became even more convinced of this when the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding said that the said lady was being excluded from decisions relating to the New Ljubljana Bank. There is still no answer why the President of the Supervisory Board goes to the cabinet of the Government if SDH is independent. That's what the president of the state holding company said at the meeting where you were present. A lot of these questions have not been answered today. You still have some time, Sir Dragonja, and I suggest you answer these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u97	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer are given the floor. First of all, the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Methods of Dragonja, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The regulatory framework for the management of state assets in Slovenia has been replaced four times since 2010. Until 2010, state-owned companies operated mainly at ministries, 2010 was established by the ZUKN – the Capital Investment Management Act established by the AUKN, which managed until the adoption of the ZZDH-1 in 2012, which was the third management model, and in 2014, the Slovenian State Holding Act 2, which introduced the principles of the OECD into this administration. The fifth change in the management model would be reckless, as assessed by the Ministry of Finance, contrary to the good practices recommended by international organisations in this area. It is our view that this management model must be consistently implemented, it must also be improved, complemented. The Capital Investment Management Strategy, which will also be discussed, will be complemented. Our assessment, however, is that it is better to have a specific strategy that has led us to manage rather than be without a strategy during this period. Following the establishment of key acts, which constitute a framework for the management of state assets, such as a strategy, an annual management plan and the SDH objectives set out, there is also a clear separation as regards the powers of the Government and the powers of the National Assembly to intervene in those issues that are within the competence of SDH. The government is not competent to influence the management of individual capital investments or the course of individual privatisations. Similarly, such powers are not vested in the National Assembly. Nor does the Government have the authority to directly interfere with SDH-led human resources solutions and procedures. The Government only proposes to the National Assembly members of the Management Board of the Slovenian State Holding Committee and their possible resolution. As regards the question raised, as regards the appointment or change of the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Board carried out by the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding and not the Government, this decision is based on Article 33 of the Statute of the Slovenian State Holding, and this is precisely written in the material. This provides that, following the entry into force of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the administration of the Court shall continue its mandate as the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Company until the appointment of a new administrative company appointed by the SDH Supervisory Board appointed in accordance with USDH-1. This is said to have been a provision, not within this government, but once the previous government has adopted or led the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act 2 procedure, that after the new Supervisory Council has been appointed in accordance with the new law, the new Supervisory Board will appoint a new board of directors of the company at that time, as the administration will also fall under the provisions of the re-election. Article 33 of the Statute, Mr Pogačnik, Article 33 of the Statute. This is indicated in the material, we have explained this several times, and the same questions are being answered again and again. We answer certain questions three times, four times or five times, and it is clear that these questions are additionally opened in the plenary to raise problems not because they would not be explained. The government will continue to actively manage state assets. Active management means that it will acquire or acquire voting rights in those cases where voting rights have been revoked. These are difficult procedures, voting rights are returned to all state-owned companies, and they have been returned to Triglav insurance company and Telekom in the last period. In the case of Petrol, Mr. Weber, they were never taken. SDH will actively manage businesses so that the objectives set by the annual SDH plan and for individual companies will be achieved. Privatisations are actively under way, the restructuring of companies partly run by SDH and part of the DUTB. Some acquisition procedures or certain ownership changes, which were also partially exposed to this initiative, also have very clear objectives, which are based on the strategy's provisions and on the provision of certain ownership anchors, subject to additional conditions to create additional value, are said to be potentially accounted for on the basis of such acquisitions on the acquisition of a premium which is linked to certain owners that have an impact. [[Incomprehensible]] As part of active management, the establishment of a reserve demographic fund and the conversion of Kad to a reserve demographic fund will also be carried out. This law is ready and will be presented for public discussion in a short time. The active management will also assess whether the conditions for supplementing the Capital Investment Management Strategy are met. This assessment must be harmonised, it is desirable that it is coordinated between SDH, which is the manager of this work, and between the Government, and it is clear that we will listen to other and parliamentary parties, inter alia, so that this governance framework of state-owned enterprises can be improved. I think that this shows an active approach to the management of state property in accordance with all principles of economy, transparency, responsibility for effective governance. There are individual issues that are particularly sensitive, such as human resources processes. SDH is fully responsible for these issues. The theory of how old boys return to a certain period or that some old structures take over is clear that certain assessments in this area are the result of, we can say that all over the world supervisory structures are mainly composed of seniors who have good management experience and this management experience can then be transferred to control and management of supervisory positions in companies. Once again, we do not want to defend concrete SDH decisions. Improvements will be needed here, and in this part the recruitment, nomination and then the process of appointing supervisory boards in companies carried out by SDH will need to be further refined and the optimal and best possible selection of candidates will need to be obtained. One partial review was carried out in the framework of the discussion held in the framework of the parent working body prior to this meeting. In this part, SDH will also need to be helped to improve these processes, to ensure the process and to ensure the desired results. The role of Parliament is also partly possible here, because Parliament has a direct view of the functioning of SDH through its representative, the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, who participates in the work of the SDH Supervisory Board. It can also contribute to improving these processes, to oversee them on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to provide suggestions, suggestions on how to improve these processes, how to ensure that in this more delicate work we are able to ensure the best staff and then also best corporate governance practices in terms of the staff composition of the supervisory boards and the administrations of public-owned companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u99	The text is also given by the representative of the Magi's proposer. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u100	President, thank you for your word. Of course, there was no answer to a number of questions. However, I am most disappointed when you refer to the fact that the President of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission may attend a meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. Please tell us that the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances does not have a voting right and that this actually has a difficult impact on the improvement of the business or operation of such a financial, organisational Slovenian State holding company. We are now just waiting for someone to say that the President of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, Mr Šircelj, is also responsible for the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding Committee. I think that this is extremely unrealistic and that we must be aware that we have repeatedly proposed and still believe that the opposition should have a place in the Supervisory Council, both in SDH and in DUTB, of course with a voting right. Dear Mr Dragonja, it must be pointed out that under the rule of Mira Cerar, the law on the so-called bad bank has also been amended. The main mission of the bad bank was the divestment of claims, and your government and coalition added an additional task, namely the possibility of restructuring companies, thereby establishing double management. On one side of the SDH, on the other side of the DUTB, which you yourself admitted. The government directly replaced part of the members of the Board of Directors of the Banks Claims Management Company and thereby imposed some responsibility, even though this board of directors was composed of some of the members you previously appointed, but you did not replace them. The fact is, all these doubts will still exist today. As I have pointed out, I am pleased that at least 6 members of the group today have somehow attached to these concerns and risks that we have highlighted, namely the proponents in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Group of Non-Aligned Members, with two coalition parties expressing a number of doubts about the effectiveness of State property management. It is likely that these results, the annual reports, will soon come to light in the way they are managed. There is no doubt that there will also be a large enough milestone when Banka Slovenije and the European Central Bank have to give their consent to the members of the Supervisory Board, which was recently appointed. You've been predicting for yourself who will be responsible. We'll see what he's up to then. The force of concern is also that our largest system bank has no strong leadership. He resigned as chairman of the board, and was temporarily appointed a new one. The Slovenian State Holding Council has set up the Supervisory Board and, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself, we have been able to come to the conclusion that some of these members who have been appointed have not met those basic criteria of the Accreditation Commission within the framework of the Slovenian State Holding Commission. This bank is ahead of serious privatisation and does not have leadership, there is no administration that would require how these privatisation procedures of our largest system bank will now be conducted. It should also be said that for the first time on this committee, the President of the Administration of the Slovenian State Holding announced the reasons why Janku Medji was not trusted in the assembly, so that the first supervisor, Mr Podbevšek, whom you dismissed as Janko Medja, would be too busy privatising this company, according to the SDH CEO. It will now be interesting to follow these further procedures. I think that both the government and the coalition will be ahead of an important decision. We are convinced that the government in the National Assembly should put in place a new strategy for the management of state property that would ensure more efficient, more transparent management of state property, and in particular that this strategy should clearly determine which buyers are eligible and which buyers are not suitable for shares sold both by SDH and DUTB. Personally, I am increasingly convinced that, by amending the law on the so-called bad bank, it would be even more important to supplement this strategy, to amend it, because I think that the relationship in the market with this amendment of the law has changed significantly and that this strategy, endorsed by the National Assembly and the coalition, is no longer appropriate. We are also convinced that the Government should take certain decisions under scrutiny taken by the management bodies of the Slovenian State Holding, in particular when appointing the members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, when selling the shares of Paloma, d.d., Adrie Airways and, of course, not least the last resolution of the previous management of the Slovenian State Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-15-SDZ7-Izredna-30.ana.u101	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Nobody. Then I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
