ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Dr Milan Brglez by 1 p.m., Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs. Susana Nice Šimenko, Mrs. Irena Grošelj Košnik, mag. Xenia Root Kramar, mag. Ange Logar, Mr. Jan Škoberne, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Miha Kordiš, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Matjaž Germany, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker by 13:00, Mag. Matthew Tonin until 3:30 p.m. and Dr. Franz Runk from 13 o'clock. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a partnership law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Jana Möderndorfer, who is given the floor to complement the explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u2	Your Honor! Today, we have before us the Law on Partnerships, which, of course, speaks very clearly about certain rights that same-sex partners and partners do not really have for many years, since we have, of course, determined what human rights are. The law was introduced one day after the referendum, in which citizens and citizens decided on the Law itself on marriage and family relations or on the law which reached for full equality, it is said that same-sex partners with all other partners who have this right under the law itself. The debate that took place at the referendum, which has made it more or less clear that in Slovenia society is not really ready to fully equalise the rights of everyone who, in fact, apart from differing sexual orientations, do not actually have any other desire for greater rights than others. In society, we decided by a referendum and made it clear that we do not like at least three things. This is, for the first time, that we cannot agree that same-sex partners adopt children. Secondly, that they have a law that has the same content as everyone else that we are or want to marry under the Marriage and Family Relations Act, but we want them to have it regulated by another law. Thirdly, we do not want them to have the right to have biomedical assistance in fertilisation. More or less, it is also clear that we have decided in society that we are not yet mature enough to accept such rights and, therefore, we insist that these things should be regulated gradually. That is why I decided, and one day after the referendum, I tabled the Law on Partnerships, which deals precisely with these issues in this way. I am sure that this law did not interfere with the Law on Marriage and Family Relations itself, and we did not intervene in the matter that we decided on in the referendum, which does not mean that we should wait now for how long, at least some advocates are convinced that at least one year to regulate these matters in a new way. With the amendment of the Constitution in 2013, with a constitutional law, with a very clear reference to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, where we have in fact removed the possibility or some kind of moratorium after a one-year treatment, and thus made it clear that such an application is still in force in the current Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, is no longer in force and is no longer applicable. Some opponents argue the contrary, but I think that the debates of such constitutional lawyers, experts and wider societies have clearly demonstrated, and not least, the reasons for amending the Constitution, as was the purpose of choosing this provision under the Constitution or Article 90. So there's actually no more dilemma here. But there is one much more and much bigger dilemma. When will the time come when we will mature and grant equal rights in society to all, to all the people who are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? That is why, of course, I am pleased with today's debate and the vote on this law. If he receives support, at least economic and social rights to that extent will be aligned with all of us, where they can be exercised by the same-sex partners. But I'm less satisfied because I'm going to have to wait a few more years for society to become so mature that we can even these rights out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you very much, for your word, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 21st session 5. 4. Addressed the proposal for a Partnership Law transmitted to the National Assembly for consideration by Mr Jani Möderndorfer. The law was also previously dealt with by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which in its opinion supported the law. The Commission sees the draft law only as an initial but urgent starting point for the final and comprehensive regulation of all rights under the Partnership and the unaffiliated partnership, including all those elements of family relations that are omitted in the current proposal. Mr Möderndorfer, the drafter of the law, initially said that the same-sex partners had been waiting since 2009, when the first decision of the Constitutional Court, which pointed out that discrimination, was a matter of equal treatment in those areas of crucial importance for their normal lives, particularly in the economic and social field. The proposed law does not address the issue of same-sex partners as he would have liked, but it is essential for Slovenia at this point in time to take a step forward in spite of the outcome of the referendum. The current legal regime regulates the legal status of the same-sex partner communities in the Law on the Registration of the same-sex marriage community, which defines the registered partnership community, such as the regulated community of two women or two men who register with the competent authority in the manner laid down by this law. However, the law in force is not suitable for regulating the situation of same-sex partners also because of the remaining decisions of the Constitutional Court, which in the previous two decisions has found that same-sex couples are in an unequal position with others, which is contrary to the Constitution. Hereinafter, there has been a debate on the key objectives and solutions that the proposal for the Partnership Law brings. In the debate itself, the Law-Legal Service took part in a discussion that highlighted some of the inconsistencies in the articles of the law, which were somehow annulled, corrected, corrected by the amendments adopted to this law. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as representatives of the Government did not oppose the law, and Mr Aleš Primc from the Coalition for Children participated in the debate! and Mr Miha Lobnik from the Society of Legebiter. As it has been said, several amendments were made to the text of the law which had been adopted, so that, in the final phase, the Committee, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, also voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Martini Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As you know, the Partnership Act before you is very similar to the bill drafted by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and has been put into public debate twice in two different governments. As a result of the proposed amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the proposal for the Law on Partnerships was not submitted to the Government and did not come into the parliamentary procedure. Therefore, the Government does not oppose the proposed Partnership Act. But I want to point out three things. First time. The current law on the registration of same-sex partnerships is unconstitutional in several provisions. In the three decisions, the Constitutional Court also found this to be the case, explaining that it is the same factual and legal basis for a community of both sexes and communities between women and men. Whether it's a closed or registered or not. Therefore, the important objective pursued by the proposal for a law is the new legal regime of same-sex communities in the sense of equalising the legal consequences between partners with those legal consequences, as the law provides for such a community of two persons of different sexes. This applies both to a consensual partnership and to the non-conclusion of two persons of the same sex if there is no reason why the marriage or the relationship between them would be invalid. Even in the view of the Government, there are no reasonable and real reasons why the situation of two long-term partners who have not entered into a partnership would be different from that of the non-legislative community. Another time. If the law is adopted and enforced, this will mean that partners of the same sex can exercise certain rights or fulfil certain obligations arising from the existence of their relationship, as is the case with partners of different sexes. In particular, this would mean that the partner is entitled to leave for the care of his partner, that the unemployed partner is insured by means of his or her employee partner, that the revenue and property of both partners are taken into account for the exercise of rights from public funds, that the partner is not required to testify in court against the other partner and so on. There are dozens and dozens of laws that do not allow equal treatment under the current regime. And the third time. In view of the outcome of the referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, in view of all public controversy, the discussions at the time of the adoption of the novel of the ZDR and during the referendum campaign, this proposal still maintains certain differences. This is a special law, which also preserves at a symbolic level a different designation between marriage and partnership, the proposed law does not interfere with the current regulation of family relations and does not allow the mutual adoption of partners of the same sex, nor does the law allow for fertilisation with biomedical assistance. In its opinion, the Government also drew attention to some inconsistencies in the law and amendments that would be necessary, at the same time pointing out the necessary changes to the home registry, which require a certain transitional period until the law is applied. All these comments have been taken into account and the amendments adopted by the National Assembly's home committee have also been duly incorporated into the law. Finally, let me stress only that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports all efforts aimed at equalising the rights of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and this law is one of these efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Today, we will renegotiate and decide on the rights and, of course, at the same time, the duties of the same-sex partners. There was a great deal of proficiency on the decision-making at the December referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The Desus Group opposed the referendum on minority rights. The law before us does not oppose the majority opinion of the referendum. It is without prejudice to the definition of the marriage or to the right to run for adoption, nor to the possibility of fertilisation with biomedical assistance. These rights, enjoyed by a wide range of partners, were at the heart of the opposition to the Law on Marriage, which they defended in the SDS and NSI, and in particular the actors in the campaign For Children go under the tactics of Aleš Primca. The amendments introduced by this bill were therefore not opposed at the time of the referendum campaign. Even the opposite. They promised themselves to draw up a similar proposal for a law that would regulate everything governed by this proposal of the Partnerships Act. If they did not change back then, the adoption of the law should not be a problem. Moreover, we believe that this is one of the rare opportunities of the National Assembly for us to be united and to prove how much we are effectively commanded by the Constitution to be equal and open to diversity. We therefore expect that a law that is not contrary to the referendum will be supported by all members of the National Assembly and will not serve to raise political points. The current Regulation on the Registration of the same-sex partnership does not provide for all rights and obligations enjoyed by married couples or couples in the extra-marital community. Newly, an employed partner may have the right to be absent from work and the right to compensation for income for the care of a family member if his same-sex partner is sick. The same-sex partner will be able to refuse testimony against partners in the partnership. As far as inheritance is concerned and the two decisions of the Constitutional Court are concerned, the proposal of the Succession Act is already in line with the constitutional decisions. With the regulation we have today on the parliamentary benches, we follow fully the position of the Constitutional Court that two persons of the same sex are living in the community of life on the same legal and factual basis as is the case with marriage. We also follow the last decision of the Constitutional Court of 26 February this year, which concluded that the Article of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community, which provides that this procedure can only be carried out in the official premises of the administrative unit, is inconsistent with the constitutional principle of equality. For diversified couples have the possibility of marriage elsewhere under the Marriage Law. The National Assembly also had to abolish this unconstitutionality within six months. In the Desus Group, we believe that Slovenia should have amended legislation on the rights and duties of the same-sex partners a long time ago, as it is increasingly clear that we are also lagging behind neighbouring and other comparable countries in this area. The new law will therefore extend the rights of same-sex couples to all fundamental, social, economic and legal rights that have not been guaranteed so far. We support the law in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! By the end of the 1970s, we had decriminalized the same sex in the Republic of Slovenia. We have been discussing the equalization of rights since 1989, but we still have no systematic solutions despite many attempts. If Slovenia was the first of neighbouring countries to regulate this area 10 years ago, and although bad, we are at the end of the line today, because most countries have already outrun us. After such a time, it is therefore essential that the rights of same-sex persons be finally settled. According to some statistics, same-sex persons represent 5% of the population, only 5% of the population. So it's a minority. a minority discriminated against on the basis of personal circumstances. The one that has been recognized for more than a decade under international human rights law as a personal circumstance that cannot be discriminated against. Because love is not discriminated against, neither should laws be discriminated against, but unfortunately that is not the case with us. The rights of partners in same-sex partnerships are governed by current legislation in a weak, opaque and unconstitutional manner. The analysis of the legal situation of same-sex partners has shown that discrimination is mass and systemic. She is present in over 70 marriages. Legislation that discriminates against so many parts of the population is difficult to recognize as it is a matter of systemic discrimination, which constitutes a grave breach of human rights. The prohibition of discrimination is one of the fundamental norms of international law. We are born without prejudice, pure in thinking, feeling, and openness to world and diversity. We raise prejudices, but it's those prejudices that discriminate against you. In the legal country of Slovenia there is thus an anti-constitutional situation which we are obliged to eliminate. The Constitutional Court has already ruled three times that the Slovenian legal order is discriminatory to the same sex-oriented, and if the same Constitutional Court is also moved and allows the majority to speak about minorities in the referendum. The Law on Partnerships regulates that between two persons of the same sex who enter into a partnership make it possible for each other to have rights and duties. This follows the findings of the Constitutional Court that the legal consequences of a community of two must not be based on the sexual orientation of an individual. The Constitutional Court has decided that the same-sex communities are essentially equal, factual and legal foundations of the community, and the European Court of Human Rights has already adopted the view that they are part of the concept of family life created by physical personal ties between the two partners, including the same-sex partnership. The proposal for a partnership law thus lays down the legal consequences of this community, but only in the relationship between the partners, both in the personal sphere and in the property field. The proposal for a law that is still in force with a closed/unconcluded partnership in legal effect is equivalent to a consensual partnership. However, the proposal does not regulate the relationship between third parties and children. Thus, the bill does not allow adoption of children, nor does it allow for fertilisation with biomedical assistance. We have thus taken a step back in the full equalisation of rights and removed from the table the provisions that have put our society on different shores. There is no more objective reason to deny same-sex partners access to the formal conclusion of a civil marriage partnership. Such a prohibition does not serve any legitimate social purpose or national interest. Such a prohibition is simply discrimination. We strongly oppose any form of discrimination by the Social Democrats, because we firmly believe that everyone has the right to enjoy human rights without discrimination, so we will support the law in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Of all the laws that we have to define so far, the Members of the United Left have decided the hardest way to vote in this law. This law brings very important rights to same-sex couples, whether they formalize their relationship or not. At the same time, however, it maintains discrimination in the field of biomedical assistance and adoption of children and, of course, also in the symbolic sense of marriage. In our opinion, it is contrary to the Constitution and also to fundamental human values. It is very clear that human rights are indivisible. If you truly recognize them, of course you fully recognize them. Human rights restrictions are permissible in normal society only in exceptional cases, where, in particular, the same-sex-oriented are not in any way allowed. It is normal for children to have fewer rights than adults because these rights are not capable of exercising themselves, but they need some special protection. It is the same with mentally disturbed people who need special protection. A justified exception is also a restriction on the rights of an adult who has committed a certain crime. Clearly, our same-sex residents do not belong to any of these categories. They're not adults who need a guardian. They're also not criminals. There is therefore no valid reason for the same-sex couples to deny the right of adoption or to biomedical assistance. The real reason for the restriction is the belief that they are equally oriented in some respects less valuable and their relationships are counternatural. However, this belief is not justified in any of the real characteristics of these persons, and it is therefore as unacceptable as the unacceptable prohibitions of racially mixed marriage and other forms of racial segregation. Like race, gender has its biological dimension and pseudo-science arguments for discrimination against same-sex couples are no more solid than pseudo-scientific grounds for racial discrimination. When assessing the appropriateness of this law, I must stop at the views of the President of the Constitutional Court, who declared that the child is not a human right. This is an obvious diversion, which has been found by many opponents of equality who do not want to openly admit their homophobias. Of course, it is not the job of the authorities to assign a child, a marriage partner or anything like that to citizens. This does not mean that the authority of someone a priori can prevent them from entering into a marriage or adopting a child if life’s circumstances allow them to do so. This law is unacceptable, as it is unacceptable that some women are not allowed to have a biomedical fertilization simply because they do not live in a patriarchal marriage or an extramarital relationship. All these legal frameworks, with which the government unjustifiably prevents an individual from living a full life. In the United Left, after consulting the organisations and activists with whom we introduced a new Law on Marriage and Family Relations in December 2014, we concluded that the social and other civil rights acquired by married and unmarried couples were so important that we had to support the law despite reservations. However, we will not stop at this, so I am already drawing attention to three scenarios that can take place in this area. Part of the political class will certainly use the adoption of this law to block progress. The excuse will be that the problem is already settled and that these themes separate us. I expect that none of us who vote for today will follow this logic. If there is no solution on the way to justice, we will try again within a reasonable time with full equality at the legal level, and I expect that the Government will not then stand at the side. In my firm belief, the restriction on rights in this law is so unfair that the Constitutional Court will also find that if it considers the matter substantively. According to our assessment, of course, it is much better for social progress to be equalised within the framework of a regular democratic process. We certainly do not see any reason for the judicial branch to continue to allow open discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! We Christian Democrats have written in the basic programme that we respect the marriage bond between husband and wife and support the family. People want a strong partnership on their way of life that can also overcome the greatest problems and trials. Parental partnership is the bearer pillar of the family. Its quality has a great impact on the upbringing of children. Marriage is a value for two people who want to be together in the long term, to share good and bad and to be available and to help each other. Family is the center and foundation of society. The family has an irreplaceable role for the individual, the community, the nation and the country. For this reason, special protection by the State or the entire legal system must be enjoyed for the benefit of the children. Christian Democrats, however, respect and stress that everyone has the right to free choice and to regulate his life with his conscience and desire. In our opinion, the proposal for a partnership law interferes with the particularly protective situation of the family by binding on the Marriage and Family Relations Act in most parts of the law. This opens up many possibilities for different interpretations and application of texts and articles of law. The process proposal is also problematic. The mandatory component of the bill is also an introduction and within it an explanation of what are the reasons for the adoption of the law. And these are the very reasons why we have a problem with Christian Democrats. The bill, which draws on the grounds for its existence in accusations of discrimination, homophobia and recasting, cannot be supported by Christian Democrats. We assume that the proposal for a law was tabled out of anger immediately after the referendum, which gave a clear signal to the rulings where the place for the family in our society is. From here probably came his offensive words, which he wrote in the explanations of the law. In our view, it is an hateful and exclusive speech, especially in the work, when it mentions the need to prevent the Coalition's legislative initiative for children! and prevent the State of the Vatican from interfering with Slovenian legislation. In New Slovenia, we expected that all civil society stakeholders would finally meet in a constructive dialogue after the last referendum and together find constructive solutions to achieve at least the smallest common denominator, and unfortunately this did not happen. Member Möderndorfer did not base his proposal on such dialogue. In view of the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal for a law is likely to be adopted, and this is why we have tabled and well justified an amendment whereby the Chief of Administrative Units, authorized persons and mothers can, for religious, personal, philosophical or other legitimate reasons, reject the conclusion of a partnership. The amendment was also extensively justified by the explanations of Dr. Mir Cerar's legal expert. In New Slovenia, we are very critical of the role of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which has failed and is not performing its tasks under the guidance of the Social Democrats. It is for the Ministry to create and open a space for dialogue within all representatives of civil society and to justify and propose a law on such common arrangements, but unfortunately the Ministry has not done so. Christian Democrats do not deny the same-sex human dignity and freedom to regulate their lives in a partnership community in accordance with their values. It is right to regulate the legal relationship between the same-sex partners in terms of succession, the right to absence from work due to the illness of the partner and the right to compensation for income for the care of the family member, the opportunity to visit the convicted party on the sentence of imprisonment and so on. The proposer does not take into account the outcome of the referendum and does not try to calm things down and open a dialogue to justify and propose a quality law. On the contrary, the proposal is based on a hate speech directed directly at Christians. Unfortunately, Christian Democrats cannot support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u16	Nice greetings, vice president, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us today is based on the text prepared by the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities during our government, and its adoption has not taken place. The new law, compared with the applicable law on the registration of the same-sex partner community, makes changes, we can also say substantial changes, namely that the community between two men and two women would not be registered, but would be concluded before the parent as a marriage union between a man and a woman, so the exact same wedding ceremony with everything that comes with the wedding would be different. It would eliminate inequality, except for adoption of children and treatment of infertility with biomedical assistance. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is in its decision of 2. Seven. 2009 decided that Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community, which provides for the right of succession, was inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court pointed out that the registered partnership is a relationship similar to that of a marriage or an extra-marital community. It is a stable link between two people who are close, help and support each other and that the legal arrangements of such a community are similar to that of a marriage or an extramarital community. Mutual rights and duties are defined, the protection of a weaker partner, the property regime between partners is almost fully summarised under the legal relationship, the same duty of survival. In short, a number of issues are being resolved, and we have not solved the basic problem with this law in any way. That is, we must not all have the same rights in our country. The Law on Partnerships does not touch on the issues that proved to be the most controversial during the last campaign. Therefore, it does not eliminate inequality in its entirety. Our country is still divided into those sexually oriented and others. Unfortunately, this law further confirms this. Despite the fact that we would like the decision envisaged by the amendment of the ZZD law to truly equalize the rights of all, we will support this law, because in our belief, at least in some way represents a step in the right direction, but we are still far from the goal, respectable colleagues and colleagues, if our common goal is indeed the full equality of all in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u18	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleague, colleague, nice greeting! Today we are discussing the Law on Partnership, which was submitted by Mr Jani Möderndorfer in the National Assembly only a day after the last referendum last year, as we have already heard. The bill introduces new legal arrangements for same-sex partnerships, both concluded and non-conclusioned. In doing so, the applicant shall, on the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 2009, 2013 and 2015, almost in all elements align the legal consequences between partners with legal consequences, as provided for by law for marriage and the non-legislative community of men and women. However, the proposal does not regulate family relations, so it does not extend or change the definition of marriage as a marriage between husband and wife, nor does it affect third parties, which means that it excludes the right to adopt children together and to insemination procedures with biomedical assistance. The government did not therefore object to the proposal, but pointed to some minor shortcomings. At the meeting of the home labour body, amendments were adopted following the above-mentioned warnings by the Government and, in particular, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, by which the text of the law was properly redrafted in such a way that, after the adoption and entry into force of this Law, the partnership and the unconstitutional partnership could immediately come to life with all the legal consequences arising from them. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal of the law, as we supported its consideration, although some warn that one year after the decision was announced at the referendum, the National Assembly should not adopt a law that is substantively contrary to the voter's decision, since the referendum in December 2015 rejected novelties which have been violated throughout the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. We do not have to agree with these warnings and indications in the SMC Group of Members. This law is in no way prejudiced by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, as it does not contain the same solutions as in the referendum the rejected novels. On the contrary, it follows the main arguments put forward by voters and voters who rejected the amendment at the referendum. The Law on Partnerships does not redefine genders, does not touch on the role of motherhood and paternity as such, nor does it raise any questions concerning the joint adoption of children or the creation of a family with biomedical assistance. In addition, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly points out that, by amending the Constitution, the legal provision on a one-year prohibition, which directly referred to the amended regulation in Article 90 of the Constitution, has lost ground and, pending harmonisation, the constitutional law applies directly to the purposeful use of the ZRLI. In addition, the Constitutional Court has already stated in the past that the relationship to the referendum is not absolute and that, notwithstanding this linkage, the legislator must eliminate the unconstitutionalities arising from the decisions of the Constitutional Court during this period and that it can also comply with the Constitution which it considers necessary in this area to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. As you know, in the SMC, when we considered the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in the National Assembly and in the referendum campaign, we came from the issue of interference with fundamental human rights and freedoms or the right to intervene in the personal freedom of another, to the inviolability of human life. The amendment under consideration was assessed solely by regulating the situation of the living community of two persons of the same sex, in the spirit of the constitutional principle of equality and international legal instruments on the elimination of all forms of discrimination. We have always stressed that the novel does not give anyone special rights based on sexual orientation, nor in any way does it prejudice the rights of third parties, in particular the right to adopt children, since we are confident today that we have an appropriate legal practice on the protection of the benefit of children. Indeed, it makes us feel a little uncomfortable because we believe that it is not appropriate to compromise on human rights in the referendum or to compromise on human rights. But it is more than clear from the debate on the working body that this law represents an attempt to form a post-spherendum consensus on the legal regulation of relations and the situation of same-sex couples. In the SMC Group, we believe that this bill after the referendum represents a symbolic message to society as a whole, that regardless of the outcome of the referendum, we need to recognise the same-sex partnership as an equal part of our social environment. Despite some concerns, we support the law and we want it to be adopted in the proposed form, because we believe that it is not a topic that could be removed from the political agenda for a few more years or simply leave it waiting for a different social situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today is April 20th, exactly four months from the 20th referendum. December, where at the referendum to reject the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, 63,51 votes against with more than 600,000 voters expressed the will of the people. The quorum was reached, the people clearly opposed the changes envisaged in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Before me, a colleague from SMC said that it was symbolically necessary, but it was expressed in the referendum, to give rights or to adopt legislative changes in the area of same-sex partnerships. Dear colleagues, not symbolically, but in particular you will undermine the will of the people, which was expressed exactly four months ago. So just two days after the decision and not yet after the official results, then independent Member Jani Möderndorfer introduced in the procedure of the National Assembly the law that we have before us today, namely the Law on Partnerships. In 2014, the Constitutional Law deleted the provision that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was bound to the outcome of the referendum and that the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, until harmonisation, was applied mutatis mutandis to the amendment of the Constitution, but that a one-year moratorium on the adoption of solutions rejected at the referendum remained on the legal level. Article 25 of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative clearly states: "One year after the referendum decision has been announced, the National Assembly shall not adopt a law that is substantively contrary to the voter's decision." Once again, today symbolically four months after the decision, the clear decision of the people is being trampled on what was achieved in the referendum and clearly expressed. At that time, the motioner Jana Möderndorfer used, if we can say, a kind word of discriminatory speech at the same time, in the interpretation of the law, which is an integral part of the law. Not to worry about an MP who was then unrelated or independent, but to worry about the coalition taking over today. If I read what is discriminatory here, given that the next point in the adoption of a law that speaks of discrimination will be. Dear colleagues from the coalition, please read page 8 and page 9 which is billboarded, underlined. He says: "First of all, it must not be allowed the Coalition for Children! which was the initiator of the referendum in order to take the legal initiative it has announced in order to prepare a proposal for a law to regulate social affairs for the same-sex partners. Not just because the coalition opposed the amendment of the Law in marriage and family relations and the referendum campaign built on prejudices, non-truths, lies, fears that it represented the interests of the holy seat or the Vatican State, which must not interfere in the internal affairs of the Republic of Slovenia... This is an integral part of the law, and today you are talking about non-discrimination, about human rights, while at the same time supporting such an explanation in the law. Of course, it also states that despite the outcome of the referendum something must be done. Such labelling is at least unacceptable to the proposer, and it is also worrying, as I have said, that such discourse is also taken over by the ruling SMC. In doing so, the proposal discriminates against the current extra-marital communities, as it provides for the same social and economic rights as the marriage and the extra-marital union together. The extramarital community of men and women will continue to be aligned with the marriage union only where the law specifically stipulates. In addition, the bill we have on the table does not seem to allow adoption of children into the same-sex community by saying, "You cannot adopt a child together as a partner of the partnership." In this case, it is a matter of deceiving the public and objecting to the will of the people at both referendums, which has clearly rejected the solutions which mean that the child would be denied the right to adopt a mother and a father." This is because the bill prohibits only the joint adoption of a child to the same-sex community. Given that the Slovenian legal order allows it to continue to be the adopter of one partner, such a proposal for a new law in the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 April this year. I am putting to the debate Article 8b and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Who wants to discuss it, please? Mr Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Of course, as a proposaler, it is right to comment in at least two of the stated facts behind the views presented by the New Slovenia and by the SDS, especially because some things need to be made very clear to the Slovenian public and clarified. First time. Members and Members of Parliament are public officials, and whenever we detect a hostile speech, we are obliged to report it. Which, of course, means that if Nova Slovenija points out this, I suggest you file an appropriate complaint against me under the Penal Code of Article 297 because I encourage an hate speech. This is the only way we're going to test whether your words are true or not, especially if you explicitly find that out. If there's anything on your bright justice, please, if you do this, because it's time to clear up these hate speech once. The same goes for the SDS, which, along with New Slovenia, I'll say, sets aside the very explanation of the law itself. Now, hand to heart, alone as a Member of Parliament, and I hope that this applies to all my colleagues and colleagues regardless of political orientation, you agree with me that the Vatican cannot and cannot interfere with our legislation. Because if you do, then please let me know in this part that I'll know more. Third thing, remember, one of the representatives of the church made it very clear in his interview that the Vatican is closely monitoring and watching what is happening in Slovenia so that a story similar to that in Ireland would not happen. And in this part I have very clearly warned in my explanation why I consider it as it is written, and I am still behind these words today. But remember, the explanation is just an accompanying text, and the law will apply. Please, if we go to the dictates of law, to individual articles and to there we will actually be able to engage in dialogue and see if the law is suitable for adoption or if it is contrary to the Constitution or contrary to any regulation in our country or in conflict. Finally, let me just say the latter, you have mentioned the moratorium and the current Law on People's Initiative or the referendum and the people's initiative so many times, I suggest that you read once again the very precise explanation for the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution in 2013. We discussed this in this Chamber, some even sitting here today, and interestingly, none of them were opposed to these changes. Not one. And we all understood this law, the constitutional law, correctly at the time. That's why, of course, everything else is today, and I can only find out about it. It is true, however, that there are ways to verify this provision of Article 90, and I therefore propose that, as long as it does not, we respect at least what this National Assembly has already adopted and is in force, which is an amendment to Article 90. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Today's bill will certainly eliminate certain unconstitutionalities that are currently taking place in the same-sex people. These are the unconstitutionalities that have been received solely because of their personal circumstances, which, of course, is totally unacceptable for the SMC Group. I am aware that, of course, we are very conservative about the issue of sexual orientation as a society in the debates because, of course, sex as a natural and human race is still a taboo in our society in certain debates. It is very difficult to talk about sex, even though I believe that the love of two adults, sexually mature persons, is, of course, also affecting some other levels that are not exclusively instinctive. Since sex is taboo, of course we also have difficulty discussing the rights of persons who are discriminated against because of sexual orientation. In order to do so, of course, man must only listen to the debate that took place during the last referendum, where, of course, as part of the public, we were given different more or less justified or, of course, less unfounded arguments. From this debate, which has taken place, it has been very clear which fundamental public disagreements have been avoided by the law we are considering today. He avoided them on purpose. These differences were the role of motherhood and paternity, as a result of which, of course, the adoption of third parties, i.e. children, and the redefining of the sexes. The latter, of course, has never been properly substantiated. This law, which we have on the table today, governs other rights that have never been challenged or addressed as problematic by the public in the debate. On the contrary, the law regulates those rights which the public as a whole has recognised as discriminatory and, of course, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is right to enforce them. In this context, the proposal of the law naturally strengthens some social consensus in attempts to regulate the legal relationship and the legal situation of the same-minded persons, i.e. the limitations and obligations arising from the partnership relationship in the areas of social life. In this way, the institution of the rule of law is also strengthened by the abolition of all those requirements under Article 60 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations before the Constitutional Court, as the Ombudsman also announced. As far as the amendment of the New Slovenia Group is concerned, at least I can say it is contrary to the principle of equality before the law. You know very well that it is the conclusion of a marriage or partnership for a legal procedure which has very little to object to conscience for moral or ethical reasons, because if the amendment of the New Slovenia Group is in force, then staff members who are entrusted, on behalf of the State, with the process of entering into a partnership may also have the moral right to refuse from some moral reservations the conclusion of a relationship between straight-minded couples. And then what would we have? So please do not refer to Dr Cerar's opinion in the New Slovenia Group because they simply excluded him from the context. The way they explain it, it just doesn't hold. Otherwise, I understand that Members of the New Slovenia Group have some moral reservations when it comes to discussing this issue. I totally understand that. I don't understand any other things. Given how Members of the New Slovenia simply want to optimise the public sector, I do not understand that they are making amendments at the same time, because at the final stage they could lead to some results because public servants would receive wages and stay at home on the basis of some moral reservations and would not do anything. In fact, I do not understand this from their point of view, and I cannot support such an arbitrary interpretation or understanding of the institutions of conscience. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all in the hall and to those accompanying the meeting! I will support the law because it means eliminating discrimination on what we generally agree on, that is, eliminating discrimination against same-sex communities when it comes to their relationship, the relationship between two people and the relationship between them. So I see this as one first step towards the complete elimination of discrimination, by no means, and in this I agree with the previous speakers who have spoken about it, no, it will not be a complete elimination of discrimination, but we now have a situation like this. With regard to the proposal of the Law of the Participant, i.e. the Law of the Coalition for Children!, this proposal is not formally properly tabled, this is the text which has been sent to the President of the National Assembly. And we can't even talk about this as a formal proposal for a law to regulate the situation of same-sex communities. Little wonder, though, is the United Left’s view that you are thinking about whether it is a difficult decision or whether this law would be supported. When you proposed amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and the full equality of same-sex communities with ordinary communities, we adopted this proposal, we did everything possible to have this proposal implemented. The decision of the Constitutional Court was that this arrangement could not be notified. Pika. The decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected, but we cannot let the next 10 years go by, be the next battle and leave things the way they have been. Discrimination at least at the level that is possible in society must be eliminated and we have also decided to support the proposal of this law and to set the first step in order to address the gravest violations, the gravest inequality. We have decided to adopt this law for this reason. There is still an open way to advance, but in the future, to arrange for the complete elimination of inequalities between the same-sex partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I was most surprised by the presentations by the parliamentary groups of those coalition partners that had already been in previous governments, which even had a government and spoke of the unconstitutionality of the Law on the Registration of Partnerships. So far, as I have told you in previous discussions when we discussed the Marriage and Family Relations Act, you have done nothing. And now you're beating yourself on the chest about how you feel about human rights, about how you handle these things. I will point out once again that, during the time of our government, the Law on Registration of Partnerships was passed, and later on on our side, you did not support this proposal for amendment in the light of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Even then, since 2010, and since 2008, you have done nothing about it. Let's drop this. We've discussed this. My colleague Jani is talking about making an hate speech, but he knows well that he is protected by immunity, that if an MP applies, it is a little different. What is written, stamped, underlined, can be read by anyone. If the services of the National Assembly have also read this, if the President of the Government has read it, if the Ministry has read it, it may also be called upon that Member using such a speech to explain the law, to declare it, or at least to warn it. That you support this, Mr Möderndorfer's coalition members or colleagues, when you might be able to distance yourself from what it says in here, that there was a campaign on lies, discrimination and I don't know what. You didn't say a single argument against us when we asked you about the adoption of children after the fourth section of the Marriage and Family Relations Act. Not a single argument to reject what we said at the time in the campaign against adoption. You didn't object to an argument. You're not. And today you're telling us that we lied to those who were campaigning. Once again, that law accurately specifies adoptions and then it may be slightly reversed. To be clear in the interpretation of the law, “in spite of the will expressed in the referendum”, we will now do something. Like my colleague Murgle said, "that's the first step." And there will be no other stairs, because there will be a big jump. Immediately after the referendum, you announced on social networks the replacement of constitutional judges according to the referendum outcome. At that time, words began to appear about the need to replace, of course, according to ideological belief, constitutional judges. We can expect that the new constitution of the Constitutional Court will see this law as unconstitutional and that later, because it will quickly adopt, with a large leap without stepping, legal provisions that will be exactly the same as that proposed in the referendum. It's exactly the same. That's also what colleague Murgel said it was the first step, and then we'll build on it. To talk about the fact that this law only solves what is most urgent; here I have to agree with the United Left, why they did not go into total equality completely, all, no discrimination, all equality, all, all. I agree with them here. Why didn't you do it? Why? What's the reason? You'll probably say something in the debate. What it says, of course, is that the same-sex partnership community cannot adopt a child together but can be adopted individually. I am saying that do not deceive people with an argument that adoption into the partnership community of same-sex partners is not possible. Don't you dare! Don't hold back because you've been talking about the bill and giving it to people all the time, talking about weddings, and adoptions aren't possible. They're possible. Tell me. However, they cannot adopt together, as stated in Article 8. Well, why are you deceiving people again not to take matter from the referendum? You treat the same matter in this law exactly the same, exactly four months after the decision at the referendum. You don't care much about people's decisions. As for this amendment of New Slovenia, we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Now, here's the explanation for Mr. Cerar, your party boss, you say they don't, the only and holy truth is what you say. The only and holy truth. And now Mr Cerar's remarks are not valid – they are taken from the context. Then give the whole text, tell us where it is taken from the context, explain how this objection to conscience and so on does not apply. Always, the only and holy truth is your truth. But to deceive people into deceiving by this law that you are taking the matter that was expressed in the referendum, that is what we are now inventing, because your only sacred truth is this: adoption is not possible. Say clearly and loudly: adoptions are possible, there will be marriages, adoptions are possible and will be in a partnership community, not together, but individually. When, according to Mrs. Murgel, will the next step be? Because I agree with her that the first step is the first step. When it's next, let me know. You're gonna wait for this marriage to be unconstitutional, and then you're gonna do the same thing you did at the referendum? Morale and ethics, and so forth, are your Spanish villages, especially the will of the people. And that's showing up more and more. And I am sorry for those Members who must put pressure on the button for this law against the objection of conscience. Tell the truth about this marriage, let me know what's possible under this law. But the marriage was crumbling. in all articles it was repaired by the ZPS. In all the articles. Yes, Mr. Prikl, we'll agree, no. Scrooge. All the articles are amended, the articles are deleted, I don't know, in the end we got this thing so little together, czech, it's almost as bad as the decree in the municipal world. But I don't usually go down, which is usually what Mr. Möderndorfer drops into our records of laws and articles, but here I have to say, every article of the amendment, the ZPS at all. You didn't give the financial structure what that means. This was also said by the Department of Health Insurance, and the Government also said that there was no financial structure, not knowing what the costs would be in relation to these matters. But such a law is happily adopted. Well, it's no problem what it means for health, social welfare, as far as it's from the budget, nothing. Nothing. If it's 10 euros or it's a million or it's half a million, because it doesn't matter, let's do it. First step. But what's it gonna be like in the fall, not another year after the referendum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Replica, Dr. Jasna Murgel. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec is doing exactly what they tell us. He's deceiving. And her truth is the only truth. All I said was, you referred to me, you wrote on that facebook, is that we're changing the judges of the Constitutional Court. That's what we're gonna decide here. Is it true? This is what we're going to decide here in the National Assembly, and that's what I thought. Everything else is the product of your imagination and the imagination of those who cooperate with you. This is what we're going to decide here in the National Assembly. You can't deny it. This year and next year. I have neither written nor thought nor ever done anything to influence the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, nor will I, because I will always respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court. Second, next step. I said, and you misunderstood me, that we would try to make this the first step or I thought that we would try to make it the first step, because I personally believe that this law does not fully eliminate discrimination. So we'll try, but I don't know what she'll be like. But I didn't say that I know exactly that I have a crystal ball, that this will actually be accepted, I don't know, I can't influence it, I don't know what will happen. But my personal conviction is that discrimination by this law, despite its adoption, will not be completely eliminated and that is why I will strive to make it. Pika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The speaker, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Actually, to be honest, I hope it will be as soon as possible, I think we have two hours and 45 minutes before the end, so that we can shorten these pains, because I can see that you have one last move with some pointless debates, and let's say one pair. Too bad because a colleague of Godec Yes, she's there, she's gone to the other side. Look, the financial consequences of the law. [[…]] You know, this means that this law clearly records the financial consequences. What are the indirect financial consequences? Excuse me. I'll give you a comparison. Even if a simple law on marriage and family relationships were to be changed, you cannot identify the indirect ones, since this logic also means that a newborn child also means an indirect financial consequence for a health - care business. What's wrong with you? What are you talking about? It's all nonsense. Such things by this logic mean that no law that affects the indirect financial consequences should be adopted any longer. Is this only true for same-sex partners and same-sex partners? Let's listen to what you're saying. It's pure homophobia. You only find non-compliance for one segment. But everything else, of course, means something else. Then the next thing that is very important and also needs to be cleared up. Colleague Godec was not a member of the previous term. And it is obvious to me here that I have announced the application of Article 297 of the Code of Penalties on hate speech, when, of course, it is impossible for a Member to sue for the spoken words in Parliament. Colleague Godec, in the previous term, was prepared to amend the law, where we wanted to abolish immunity for Members of Parliament. Do you know what happened? Here your colleagues and colleagues have made it very clear: No, that is not, either the whole immunity or nothing! And of course they knew it was impossible, and of course it would never happen because they were afraid that the hate speech would come out of immunity. And now I'm offering you, I've got this marriage ready, we're putting it in. Will you sign it? You want it? I'm just curious. I want to see that day. I'll do it, I'll be happy to see your words. The next important thing is, above all, support. When we amended the Constitution, one Member or Member of Parliament in 2013, I paid particular attention to the SDS, there was no one against the amendment of Article 90. Not from the new Slovenia. But today, all of a sudden, big words about what to do with the referendum and what not. Take another very clear explanation, which, of course, all of you have voted for, and very clearly states that such principles as the one-year moratorium of the referendum, which says that no law is adopted, are said to have not received a green light for the law itself, must not be applied in Parliament. Has this institute ever been used? No, because it makes no sense. What's been shown in practice. And another little thing for those who don't know, or at least for the Slovenian public, is the only oasis of the country in Europe that we've had so much stupidity written in the constitution. The only one. More than plainly speaking, no one knows such nonsense. Since it is clear in itself that you cannot and must not go against the will of the people, this does not mean that the National Assembly must no longer respond to the mistakes that are in the system, and must now wait for one year to be silent and will only correct mistakes. Today, with this law, we are only correcting what is generally in favour. In 2012 from New Slovenia, Matthew Tonin here says very clearly about this stage if – I repeat, if you regulate the law by regulating it and not by law on marriage and family relations, if it has another address, if there is no adoption and if there is no biomedical assistance, it is the fertilization that I support this law. Today they come with a new formula, an objection to conscience, which knows that you simply do not need it through. You know, if we use this formula, which was proposed legally and legitimately by Nova Slovenije with the amendment, then we no longer have the rule of law. Because we will simply enforce our conscience in all areas. And it just can't hold. That's definitely not the theory. It is interesting, though, that the objection to the conscience is established in only one area, why not in all others? Why on that? I say very simply, people still don't understand what everyone really means today. Do we have an objection to our conscience because we disagree and are in fact discriminatory up to two who want to conclude a partnership, or do we have an objection to the procedure? Where is the objection to conscience now? Because if we have an objection to conscience in the first part, it is said that we have something against the same-sex partners, then these dimensions are worse and wider. Then such a worker can in fact no longer do any work on behalf of the State, can in any private place, on behalf of the State, certainly not. However, if there is a problem with the procedure, then suggest a change of procedure, as the procedure is likely to be illegal. And this is a key problem that we need to essentially have in mind when we talk about the Partnership Law. So much for now, I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! I certainly think it is important that we adopt this law today. I am pleased that it will also be accepted by the United Left, although not entirely by their own measure, but they understand that it is better than nothing and that this law, however, corrects those essential injustices that are now committed to the same-sex partners, is an equalization of economic and social rights with other partners. I certainly agree with the position of our Group of Members, but I do not have to agree with some of the views expressed today in this debate. This is that, as a colleague from SDS said, the underprivileged will of the people is expressed in the referendum. This is certainly not the will of the people to be trampled on. As we recall, it was the will of the people that this law, which fell at the referendum, should not allow the adoption of these same-sex partners and the redefinition of marriage. That's not what this marriage is about. Adoption. I would like to say something else about this adoption because it is not exactly the position expressed by Mrs Jelka Godec. In any event, this law refers to the adoption of one of the children who already have another partner. I think that it is clear to everyone that if two partners decide, of course, the same-sex partners conclude a marriage or an extra-marital community, and someone has a child from before, it is clear that another partner of that child can adopt if they live in a community or marriage. Therefore, I think it is right to say this to the public, because the public is accompanying these meetings and our debates, that they know that this is the only adoption, not the adoption of a child whose biological parents are neither of these same-sex partners. You may recall that at that time I, too, opposed or expressed my dissatisfaction with adoptions that did not allow for old parents. This is a second question now, but I have thought a lot about these adoptions and the current solution seems perfectly correct to me and it is right that it is so written in the law. In addition, I would like to stress in particular this amendment on conscientious objection proposed by Nova Slovenije. I think it's totally unacceptable because I don't know why a parent would say that, and I'm not marrying this couple. It's not like, for example, a gynecologist who won't perform an abortion. It's understandable to me that his contract of news is possible. But certainly not with the marriage of two same-sex partners. This is then again some discrimination, an expression of this parent, a discriminatory attitude towards these two partners. Then I could also say, yes, I won't marry a diversified partner, so maybe because you marry out of favor or not know, but maybe one of them is a criminal or he's done something bad, I don't know. This is a very stretching question, and I absolutely don't think it belongs to this law. I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u35	Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u36	Ms Levičar, when we talked about adoptions, you or the other Members of Parliament, that they are now possible adoptions, you talked about biological parents, so that one is biological and then a partner adopts this child. I wonder if it says in this law that two same-sex women can't, so either for each other or first, say one, adopt a child who isn't biological. Which isn't biological. I'm not talking about biologicals. So the marriage of two partners, male-male, female-female, because anyway, one adopts a child. Now you're telling me this is just another question, I think you misunderstood me. I'm talking again, adoptions are possible. As the third paragraph of Article 2 states: "A partner of a partnership cannot adopt a child together. But you can take him after the ZZDR each for yourself." Just like they nod in the coalition. So don't tell me they're not possible, Mrs. Levicar, adoption. They are possible, including children whose parents are not biological parents in the partnership community. The coalition MPs are nodding. Now, if they haven't properly explained the law to you, ask them again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first thing I would like to do is to understand here in this Chamber what discrimination means in same-sex marriages and adoptions. The European Court of Human Rights has never ruled in any judgment that this is discrimination. And the fact that you're here repeating how discriminatory we are is not the case. Nobody wants to be discriminatory and nowhere has it been decided that this is discrimination, not on the basis of the European Court of Human Rights. In order for the referendum or not to be a referendum, one year after the referendum voted, at least your fellow Members, who are the real learners, Mr Möderndorfer, should know that this is still the case. Since Article 25 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative still stipulates that the National Assembly must not regulate areas contrary to the will of the electorate expressed in the referendum. And of course article 25 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. You too should look at what you accuse other Members of Parliament, in what way and what it says in all the articles. Since the law is not just one article, the law is all articles and, of course, colleagues who are the right teachings, you know that part of the law is also an introduction and an explanation. A few years later, when it comes to examining why a marriage was adopted, an introduction and an explanation for why that law was adopted at the time when there was a treatment for certain problems. You, the one who's the one who's the one, you know that's the way it is. And now to our amendment. In the New Slovenia Group, we ordered a study assignment on conscientious objection. It's accessible to all, I'm sure you've all studied it, at least those who might otherwise have professionally in your daily life or who you're professionally involved with. We already know the objection to conscience in health care today, in the military and gradually instituting ourselves. The objection to conscience according to Dr Cerar is as follows: "The Treaty of Conscience is therefore a moral duty by its fundamental or authentic nature. The law, which is also willing to listen to various objections to conscience, thus shows its humanity, as it saves an individual from some, even the greatest internal tensions that an individual may at times cause between morality and law." I only read the part. You said we were exempt from context, but these are Dr. Cerar's words. According to him, the objection to conscience is said to be the highest form of democracy, because you are allowed to do so because of the individual's internal pressures. And this is where our amendment goes to Article 8b, so that it is possible for the heads of administrative units, for the mothers who make such connections, to avoid such situations, and for all, even for those who make such a connection, they would not have the sense that anyone would reject it. I'm sure things can be settled, but we're talking about the highest form of democracy, the objection of conscience. Some countries, including the Netherlands, after this research on conscientious objection, take this form. That is why I do not understand, I do not understand the modern centre's Party, which talks about democracy, about ethics, about the respect of the individual in society, so that, of course, in this area, he is moving away or making it impossible for him to object to his conscience. I think that the adoption of our amendment would be a big step for democracy in our country, so that we all feel that we have some legal security, security, and that we can live by our own principles, moral, religious or any other ethical principles. And accepting our amendment would show that that's what you want. Once again, it was said, it would be outrageous to object to the conscience. Today, we know the opposition in health and in the military. We wouldn't have discovered anything, and we also know what the cases are on these two. It is said that there is no reason for non-support or rejection of the opposition, who, after all, is also trying to settle matters in this country and even more, should ever have been settled. This is where all the criticism goes to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the Minister. The bill has already been regulated several times under its leadership as State Secretary or as Minister. Today, I am listening to the Secretary of State say that the three decisions of the Constitutional Court are still pending. This is where you have to stand. I personally claim the responsibility of the minister. This should be done as soon as the Constitutional Court has decided. Why isn't it? I don't understand why he didn't. Despite only one year of government, which has tried here, nothing has happened in these years in order for this area to be regulated for them, for same-sex partnerships. Here I think it's a responsibility and welcome to the Minister's interpretation, because it's also part of her guilt. Unsettling, caring for all the same needs of citizens, this is also part of the responsibility of Minister Anje Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you so much for the president's word. I must first express my joy that today, however, we will obviously, after a long time, adopt a law regulating the rights of same-sex couples. Solving this problem, if I may express myself a little poetically, he's already got a pretty beard. The beginning was, of course, what is Godec's colleague, but I am sorry now that he is not here in the room, that certain things I am trying to explain myself, he is right, he started with the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships, which has proved to be no longer good, that he is no longer fit. Finally, a number of constitutional decisions by the Constitutional Court on this subject were that this law should be corrected. About a year and a half ago, the Government prepared the Law on the Partnership Community, which is practically identical to the Law on Partnerships that we are considering today, but from a well - known set of circumstances, it did not see the light of the world or go into procedure. In the meantime, there has been a change to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and yet today we are in the process of adopting a law on partnership. If it's scribbled for someone, of course I can't say that. It is true and it is not the first and I fear that it is not the only law on which the Law-Legal Service will have many comments. I think this is a little broader – reaching a consensus between the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the government's legislative service. In the final stage, when it comes to comments on marriage, it is not meant to be substantive, it is not said that the law would be unconstitutional or anything, but it is largely for certain nomotechnics – but I do not want to underestimate this legal term – which is then made with amendments, of course, a lot of them, in proportion to the number of articles, but then, of course, the matter is settled. I was a little disturbed by the debate "this is the first step, the next steps follow, they will be small, they will be larger, they will be crucial, they will not know what they will be like". It's an important step, it's the adoption of the law. I have repeatedly said in this National Assembly that I understand and believe that I do not understand the mistakes that law is a living matter. Legislation and each individual law is a living matter and in its implementation path it shows many times that it is not the best, that it is not the most effective, that time brings something new. We will then talk about things, proposals, ideas for improvement, complementarity and so on. At this point, I think, personally, and this is also the position of Desus that this law is optimal because it solves some key issues. What's he saving? The main point is that the partnership is defined as a new society of two people of the same sex, men or women, because we talk too often about male, of course it is also a community of women. The proposal for a law aligns the two persons of the same sex in all aspects with the living community of women and men. The partnership, it seems particularly important to me, in all legal areas, has the same consequences as marriage. What is more, if you remember, Desus was somewhat detained at the ZZDR, and in the final stage we did not vote together or vote, and now it doesn't matter who did it, somehow according to our conscience. We think that is essential, and this is also the final summary of all the parliamentary groups, and, finally, the referendum campaigns, where everyone has said some things, should not be the subject. Some of these things, which are not the subject of this law, I will now say. A man would expect that today will not be our-yours, there will be no ideological duel, but that we will confirm the law, virtually unanimously, and move on. So, there's no talking about three things here. There is no talk of the definition of marriage, no talk of adoption and no talk, so this law does not touch on the rules governing the process of fertilisation with biomedical assistance. This law recognises the legal consequences of the unconstitutional partnership of two persons of the same sex, thus the position of two partners who have lived for a long period of time and who have not entered into a partnership shall be governed by the same rules as the non-marital community in the Family and Family Relations Act and not in that law. And such a community has the same legal consequences between them as if it were to enter into a partnership, as is the case with the relationship between marriage and outside the marriage community, by reading corneas if that makes it easier for anyone. With such a legal regime, the proposal follows fully the position of the Constitutional Court, as I have said before, and which is also essential for the functioning of the rule of law, and it would be right for this to be settled and not today, not by this law. That the community of two persons of the same sex is concerned with the same legal and factual basis of the community as is the case with the marriage. I was also optimistic about the debate on the Labour Committee itself, the family, social affairs and the disabled, and I was a little afraid that this debate would be too gallant, too tense, maybe it would go from practice here and there, but of course it would not go away. Why was I afraid of that? Because representatives of various civil society initiatives have participated and I must say, the debate has not been as long as I expected. There was a longer debate in the law, which we will discuss at the next point, but somehow, if I recall correctly, it was concluded, they have found, I will now state the names, colleague Lobnik and colleague Primc, Mr Primc and Mr Lobnik, that in 85%, 95% even, you see, in 95% of the solutions under this law, they agree. And then I really don't see the reason why this law could be one of those who would share our society. I really don't see that reason. Of course, I don't want us to get along properly with this law and this matter, but I do wish that we do not talk about three, four and more different and three times, five times in the Labour Committee and also in the National Assembly, and we do not discuss three, four and three different laws that regulate practically the same matter. I'm talking about the Family Code, I'm talking about the ZZDR, I'm talking about the ZPS, which is the Partnership Community Act, which then didn't go into procedure, and now the Partnership Relations Act. Of course, I would like to have fruitful debates about some other laws that crucially determine the existence of people, their position in society, and indeed this law – and therefore it is right for us to adopt – to regulate certain fundamental human rights and in the final phase of freedom. As a summary of my entire debate. I am pleased that this law will be passed today, in those three points we were a little apart, fertilization with biomedical assistance, definition and adoption, and above all adoptions have been very much shared, there is no talk today, there will be no speech. This law does not regulate it, but it regulates all other, material, inheritance and so on, including social rights and so on. It's the right thing to do. It is right that we throw open the tables of the undecided or judgment of the Constitutional Court that speaks of the discriminatory nature of the law and look ahead. But if, of course, this law is to be amended in a year, two, three, five or more, on the basis of arguments, ola, here we are, we will change it. The Registration Act was the first step, a very advanced law at the time, apparently not optimal enough today for the challenges of this time. And if it appears in the Partnerships Act that we need to change anything, which is not going to go on the path of reducing human rights and especially children who are the most vulnerable group, then of course we will make certain changes. In Desus, of course, there will be full support for this law. I am looking forward to withdrawing it from the agenda and to implement it optimally in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The speaker, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u42	The question was whether it was a gradual arrangement for one day to arrive at a perfect equation. Yeah, the answer is yes, otherwise it can't be. But don't forget one fact that when we took the first step with the Registration Act in 2006, and then, of course, here some of you mention that no government has ever tried or tried to regulate anything since then, it seems to me, if not literally a lie, extremely unworthy to say anything like that in this House. First, the matter was first tried to settle with the Family Code, and it fell to the referendum. For the second time, she tried to regulate the drafting of the law and, of course, the fall of the government of Alenka Bratušek caused the marriage to stop. With the new government, the partnership community law was essentially being prepared and, of course, it stopped again because of the introduction of the law of the United Left, which proposed its law. And with the law where we went to the referendum, of course, the procedure stopped again. So, don't say that the thing wasn't trying to work out, which is a lie and a blur. Secondly, what seems more important to me is, of course, to let us know the following and to remember what some people like to forget very much. The Ombudsman has made it very clear that if such a law as we have on the table today will not be adopted, she will submit a constitutional assessment of all rights that are and go to and deserve the same sex partners. In the event that the law is adopted, it is likely to submit only at least three or four opinions. So don't say it's some secret, I'll say, from behind some maneuver that will happen on its own and that these are our plans. Even the Ombudsman, who has a high legitimacy, has been elected to the National Assembly and, of course, has an annual report, which has also been adopted by all of us, has a clear and clear statement of what he will require. So to be aware that this is some sort of gradual arrangement, there is no longer and, let's stop it. The second thing that seems far more important to me is, of course, an objection to conscience. See, this problem highlighted by New Slovenia with the amendment, see, in America Republicans have been trying to spread one and the same story a number of years ago, and individual federal states have been distributing and adopting laws at the level of the country with objections to conscience for various reasons. For example, one of the most famous examples is, when you look out, not at the state level, but at the level of a private initiative, of course, is the Stutzman case from Washington, D.C. in 2013. She didn't want to give flowers to the same-sex partner for the wedding. Of course, it was in court because of the complaint, it was very clearly rejected and even the penalty was paid and it had to be made a public promise to sell flowers to everyone, regardless of the type of wedding. Flowers. I'm talking about simple things on purpose, so they're understandable. The next case was when private pastry chef Jack Phillips from Colorado refused to make cake for same-sex partners for the wedding. The same thing, in the same case, was rejected. And the next case, they didn't want to take pictures of the same-sex couple at the wedding, and they were punished, and they had to promise to do it again. Because it's clearly eccentric discrimination, not the marriage of same-sex partners, but of same-sex partners as individuals. That needs to be explained. And now, if we go back, don't think that there have been no such cases in Slovenia. Remember the 2011 initiative when, in the Society for the Liberation of Animals and Their Rights, which, in addition to the Association for the Development of Peaceful Agriculture, proposed to the Government that it also incorporate into the legislation an objection to the knowledge of hunting, but this simply did not happen. I am deliberately pointing out other cases, so that you will understand that this is not only about same-sex partners, but it is generally about the definition of conscientious objection. And if we mention Dr. Mir Cerar, who was torn out of context, I will also show you why he was ripped out of the context that spoke about this principle, what it means to object to conscience, but you forgot to read another part of the definition that he mentioned very clearly in his text. This is, "if each of us could at any time, for personally justified moral, philosophical and similar reasons, renounce obedience to law, then legal regulation would soon be over. Both the Constitutional Commission and later the Assembly, as the founder, have therefore decided to impose the right to object only conditionally. Article 46 of the Constitution states that the objection to conscience is admissible in cases established by law, unless it restricts the rights and freedoms of others.” In this case, as proposed by Nova Slovenija, this is very clear and clear that it is a violation of the law. And so to refer to Dr. Cerar in this case, it is unworthy, of course, if we do not take the whole context. But I know it's convenient for you and your hand. But let's get one thing straight, it's not about procedures, it's about people. And today, those who speak on behalf of Christendom about procedures rather than about people have a serious problem. That's what someone said two thousand years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Martina Vuk has the floor as Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! Just over a year ago, when we were also talking about same-sex couples, about their opportunity and their right to admit that they have the same rights as multiple couples, we said a lot of things, we looked at all the same-sex couples, but today, after one year, I find that the obvious memory fades, that although we talked for a year about the law, that for over a month the pre-referendum campaign, that very broad debates and themes had opened up, that we had forgotten about the basics, of the history of the law that regulated the situation of same-sex couples, we find out why, and forgive the words, for the devil, this has not yet been settled, why no one has ever proposed any law that would regulate it. And now we have to go through history again. Although Ambassador Möderndorfer briefly said, it is not possible, however, to ask this question over and over again. And I will remind you of the history of handling these matters. And if we start with the adoption of the ZRIPS, that is, the Law on Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships. In 2009, the family code began to be drawn up. The Family Code, which has been fully regulated by family relations, was its main purpose, which has substantially differently regulated the procedures for relations between children and parents and similar matters and, inter alia, otherwise regulated the marriage and introduced the partnership as a union of two persons of the same sex and established certain rights. 2009 preparations have begun. The law was adopted in 2011. More than one year after the formal adoption and during the proceedings, the debate on this law, the content itself, unfortunately nothing about the relationship between parents and children and the regulation of family relations, but only a few articles. And in 2012 a referendum was held. At that time, we had two decisions of the Constitutional Court. And they would be realized when the law entered into force or when the family code was applied. However, the will of the people at the referendum was such that this law was never enforced and never applied, 2012. 2013 was the decision not to give rise to a new family code, as there was a one-year moratorium at the time of the adoption of the family code, that it was precisely due to the broader social consensus to adopt a special law that preserved the different designation of this community or union from which adoption was excluded and excluded from the possibility of fertilisation with biomedical assistance, so that the relationship between the same sex partners could be arranged to recognise such a relationship, that an unconcluded union as well as the constitutional court had regulated it, and that we could move forward. And when the public debate was concluded, the government could only carry out ongoing business. For six months it was only possible to carry out ongoing business and therefore this law has never been introduced into the parliamentary procedure. It was then established, a new government formed, and immediately at the beginning of its mandate, the Partnership Community Act was put into public debate. And even before this law was introduced into government procedure, a bill was introduced, a new law on marriage and family relations. And we've been talking about this novel for over a year. And if you will remember or if I refresh your memory of those discussions from March to autumn last year, when we here in the National Assembly discussed those laws or matters related to the law, there have been quite a number of calls, also here in the National Assembly by Members and Members who opposed the novel ZZDR, public calls through the media, writings and the like. Why? Why did the government decide not to oppose the new ZZDR, but when it did prepare its law, which was widely accepted and if it were to introduce that law, the Law on the Partnership Community, so that it would be supported to complete this story and to be able to devote itself to more important matters? However, when we said at the time of the public debate, however, there was no such broad social consensus on the grounds that they cited themselves, raised some fears that had not followed in any way from the law, it was counter-argument that we absolutely pretend that there is certainly now support for that law and that if the government were so smart as to introduce that law, then this law would be adopted. So let's avoid and look for some new reasons why we don't work things out, why we can keep talking about same-sex couples, same-sex couples, and so on, when we say it's a very small group of people in this country. And yes, you're right, all those who said, "Would it really be different?" Since we now have a law that is so much the same as the government's proposal, this law has now been introduced and today it has been examined and the arguments are in fact very similar to all those, all the different laws that have addressed this topic so far. These are the same arguments if we can call them counter-arguments and I'm wondering who it really suits to keep talking about the same thing. Do you really believe that this corresponds to those relatively small groups of same-sex people who, I believe, are already satisfied with the fact that they must continue to expose themselves, that others point them out, that they keep pointing at them, and in fact they never come to have the same rights as diversified couples, whether they are married or not. I think this is a very important question, and today is an opportunity for this matter to be concluded. That the law should be adopted, that the law should be enforced, that it should be applied, and then that one year later we should say, okay, let's see what really happened. Let's see if the law has really invented two times or three of the same sex-oriented numbers. Is it true that same - sex couples do prevail on one occasion? Don't forget, because I know I keep exposing this, but still, we're talking about people living between us today, here and now, regardless of the law in force. We're talking about couples that even exist, they're already, they're already between us. Even the current ZRIPS – The Law on Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships, adopted by the Janša government as your own underlining, acknowledged that these couples must be able to have some formal recognition of their relationship. What are we really talking about? Or that the circle of rights must be severely limited, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has said that there is no reason for them to treat each other differently? He said that three times now, but he'll probably say four, five and six. Here is the answer to the Minister's responsibility and how I should have acted by now if it had not already been answered with that history and history that I have told. Constitutional decisions shall be taken directly. The Constitutional Court has also merely said that they apply directly to amendments to the law. Therefore, these rights, which were decided by the Constitutional Court, as regards the succession of registered partners with respect to non-registered partners, are already directly applicable to the conclusion of the marriage or to that registration or to the place where they can be registered. As, if I may remind you, the constitutional law amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution also applies directly. Constitutional law is the way the constitution changes. And this constitutional law has, in addition to the first part in which it directly changes the articles of the Constitution, the second part in which it says what is being applied directly to the amendment of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Directly. What is used directly? This constitutional law is directly applicable until the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative is amended. That's how it works. Then, when we talk about the objection to conscience, there was a question on the ground about what this objection to conscience would actually be raised. So what are we objecting to? Do we object to the moral, ethical and otherwise contentious view of this parent, an officer or a chief, a chief of the administrative unit, as to whether it seems morally ethical or otherwise controversial that two persons who are in the same sex want to enter into a relationship, or is it ethically disputed only by this procedure, which may also be famous and different? What would be the issue of conscience here? If we remember the current ZRIPS, it allows registration, it also allows procedure, and it also does not allow any objection to conscience anywhere. If we look at the procedure ourselves. You know, the registration is done by reference and referees in the administrative unit. It's part of their regular work and tasks. A parent is not a job, a parent does a special voluntary education, obtains a certificate that they can be authorised to manage to act as a parent, are paid additionally in the context of overtime or the time in which they do so. The Commissioners shall be paid additionally, only the Chiefs of Administrative Units shall not be paid specifically for this and shall be deemed to be their regular tasks. Even if you look at the practice, some chief says, unfortunately I don't have time on Saturday, you come and then they take their place. So it really needs to be answered in practice, what we are talking about here, because this is an important matter, and if this is accepted, it is also an important guide and an important practice to move forward where we will continue to enforce our consciences. However, it is also necessary to consider, in view of the description and explanation of the Constitutional Court, where they are justified and where there are no compelling reasons for the distinction between diversified and same-sex couples. It is important to ask why there is no objection to the conscience of the parents, of the authorities, of the chiefs of administrative units regarding the conclusion of a marriage. Maybe another sentence about adoptions themselves. The law is without prejudice to the current regime. If we look again at reality, the life we live and the laws we cannot accept are isolated and we cannot read in isolation about the entire legal order, the issue is that this law does not govern adoption. This law even explicitly excludes bilateral adoption. Why does he explicitly rule it out? Because the Law on Marriage and Family Relations states that marriages can only adopt children together. Therefore, if it is directly used that now those who have entered into a partnership on rights and obligations are counted as spouses, this is explicitly excluded. It's clearly written so that there won't be any problems. But if people need to be told again, and I can tell them, same-sex families live among us, they are already, they are already two people of the same sex and the children are in this family and this is a recognized family. It already exists. In no way does the proposed law interfere with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you. First of all, let me just respond to a few words that have been said. My colleague Murgel said she was surprised by the United Left position, because in some ways it was a difficult decision for us. It was in this position that I explained why this was a difficult decision. Of course, I agree that we cannot leave people living in same-sex partnerships in some uncertainty, in some legal void for ten years, but that still does not mean that we can agree that human rights are something we can share. This, of course, gives rise to reservations, and I think that our reservation is still justified. You also said that the Constitutional Court's decision was that such an arrangement was not appropriate. The decision of the Constitutional Court was merely procedural and decided that the procedure was, in some ways, inappropriate, but not the substance of the law itself. Respect should only be taken here in the second part, as defined by the SSKJ, as respect for and compliance, but we cannot respect this decision of the Constitutional Court within the meaning of the first, the main definition offered by the SSKJ, and this is a very positive attitude towards anyone because of its moral validity, value. Here I do not think that the Constitutional Court has shown this moral validity, which is also their primary commitment and basic task. And from this comes the answer to my colleague Levicar, who said that we would be happy to see the United Left support the law, even though it is not our measure. It is not our measure, it is precisely this indivisibility of human rights and all those people living in same-sex partnerships who will still remain at least partially discriminated against. It is unfortunate, however, that today's debate mainly reflects on the more conservative side of this House the mere continuation of what we have listened to right through all of this history mentioned by some. In short, I would define this, in a way, as at least partial gloomyness. In short, even all the words that have been uttered, the promise that all that disturbs them is that it is the same relationship as that of diversified couples, to include adoption and so on, they are blown up today. Nor is the fact that this arrangement now withdraws precisely this, the symbolic value of the marriage, the possibility of adoption not enough to support this law. And this is just proof that we will not see the end of this gloom and I think that all these words, which are repeated, are eaten again every time, and I think that this reaction to the final equation will continue for a long time. Of course, part of this gloominess is also in this amendment proposed by NSI. On the one hand, this amendment is absurd, and on the other hand, I would say it is potentially unconstitutional. My colleague Möderndorfer has already quoted Article 46, and I will quote him once again, which, of course, sets out what the right to object to conscience is. "The objection of conscience shall be admissible in cases established by law, unless the rights and freedoms of other persons are thereby restricted." If we give the official a chance to object to a partner's conscience, that's exactly what we're talking about. This is an eclectic definition of a violation of Article 46 of the Constitution. Someone who is in an official position will decide from his own convictions that he will discriminate against another person. And I think it's already some basic condition that no one can support this amendment. If we are bound by the Constitution, we cannot support such an amendment. And that's a fact. Moreover, I think that the opposition to conscience is something that is useful in cases where a person is asked to do something extreme. The most eloquent example is, of course, an objection to conscience in serving military service or military duty. Of course, it goes there in extreme cases that a person has to go into some kind of fight, where he can potentially kill as well. And there is, of course, an objection to conscience to something that is perfectly logical. In the case of mothers, however, it is the same as saying that, I don’t know, a teacher of biology can object to the conscience because he doesn’t want to teach evolution from his religious or other beliefs. It just doesn't make any sense. I think there's enough argument here for not supporting such an amendment. That's why we won't be in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I have to say, apparently I'm still very naive, even though we've been sitting here for a good year and a half in the National Assembly. Indeed, I really believed what was being discussed in the proposal for amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. I am now speaking precisely about this because the Secretary of State has already mentioned it. On the left hand side, there were a lot of concerns about the adoption of this law, precisely because it touches relations with third parties because the problem of adoption is because and therefore this law, which we now have on the table, governs only and only the relationship between same-sex partners, and you still have exactly the same impressions and exactly the same reasons for not supporting it as you did at the time. [[…]] It's exactly the same. Well, those reasons aren't right. And to still refer to this and to discuss things that this law does not touch at all, I, as I said, am obviously still very naive because I expected a different debate, because I expected you to say, yes, that's what we wanted, just as you spoke at the time, and we have no problem with that, and we will now support that. And it's not like that today. And Mrs Dimic said today, and I quote, "that we all feel that we have some legal certainty and that we can live by our principles," she said here today, of course, regarding the objection of conscience. But that's exactly what I'm saying, I want everyone to feel that we have some legal certainty and that we can live by our own principles, everyone, from first to last. Of course, you are now happy to refer to Dr. Cerar in your explanation, and you have also stated his statement, which concludes: “The law must not go too far here. The objection to the conscience can only be allowed in law exceptionally, because by the wider legal consent of such an objection, the right would commit its own suicide.” And I think if we're already talking today, who's starting here now, and who's going to take some steps, and hopefully they'll continue, that's exactly what Nova Slovenija said in her flyer in front of the referendum campaign in 4. Points: “It does not allow an objection to conscience to those who disagree with the law for personal, philosophical, religious or other reasons.” And now watch what's in the armor? “for example, mothers, teachers, social workers and the like”. Where are we going? We will come exactly as colleague Möderndorfer pointed out today when teachers will refer to this when the florists refer to it when the waiters in the restaurant refuse to serve the same-sex couples as the guests. Then where do we get to, I wonder. So, where does this thing end? And absolutely, absolutely, these cases are to be interpreted narrowly, especially as regards the public sector. In particular, public servants with certain powers representing the State are expected to respect legislation. Whoever doesn't have to do it and doesn't want to do it doesn't want to do it, I don't think it's appropriate for a public servant. And the leadership of every employee must be the constitution and the law and the principle of equality, and so forth, that I do not let go at all, because I feel that all this is said. In our Group of Members, we absolutely do not object to the objection of conscience if it does not affect fundamental human rights and freedoms. And here they are. And I am also joining Janie's opinion, I really hope that today is just the first step, that these people who are discriminated against, really get their rights as quickly as possible, and that this procedure will somehow continue and that we will be able to have some consensus and that we will openly acknowledge that it is discrimination and that they are second-rate citizens and that this is simply unacceptable. I will also conclude with a piece of the opinion that the Council of State has written in its opinion. The National Council sees the proposal of the law only as an initial but urgent starting point for the final and comprehensive regulation of all the rights of the partnership and the unaffiliated partnership, including all those elements of the family relationship which are omitted in the current proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must start by saying that I will support the amendment tabled by Nova Slovenija. Much has been said about this amendment so far, and I will not go further into the content itself, because I think it is clear that if I say I will support this amendment, it is very clear why I support it. I will, of course, respond to the rest of the debate that has taken place here today, very broadly, about the law that is proposed. This was discussed by all the parliamentary groups, each Member practically had a say so far, and discussed this law very widely. I think it's only right that I don't get interrupted by accident, so I'm warning the Vice President in advance and I'm asking. First of all, I am convinced, personally and also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that by introducing this law, it is an abuse of the will of the people expressed in the referendum when it comes to voting on a similar or almost identical subject that we are discussing and talking about today. There are certain things that are left out here, but the key things are not. I think that the majority of citizens at that time voted very clearly and very clearly in this referendum that they do not agree with either the approach or certain solutions proposed in the law, namely the Family Code, and they do not agree that, as soon as the referendum has been voted, they would have tabled an amendment to this law. It is known exactly how these things are going, and there has been a lot of talk about this today. But the coalition and the government obviously do not tolerate the defeat they experienced at the referendum at the time, and this seems to me to be a complete nonsense, the fact is that the Slovenian people are uncompromising, very clear, with the vast majority saying that they do not agree with such solutions. And the coalition, the government is trying to bypass by this law exactly what the electorate at the time, i.e. citizens and citizens, rejected at the referendum. That's right. Since she failed with one key goal, in one story to solve a complex problem, she now went on to step by step, because she realizes that there is no possibility of going back to the same approach as she did when she tried to implement something that is sacred to the Slovenian people, Slovenian people and Slovenian people will never just leave to some groups, in a way that is, say, a family, equal in this society. It is amazing that this coalition and this government, in fact the objective of this coalition and these governments, is to support the privileged parts of this society, including the gay organisation in this society, which I believe is becoming the most powerful organisation in our society. Now you don't have to leave the National Assembly, because those who are in pain, what I have just said, will, of course, leave the parliamentary bench. This gay organization has also become the key to all the networks of our society, the most powerful. You can say whatever you want. Take a look around, check the positions of the people, and you'll get some information that's important. I will not talk about individual people because it would be rude, unfair, but I have reservations about these people because they abuse the system, the subsystems, the National Assembly, the Government and everything that is crucial in this country, so that they can achieve the key, desired goals of life they have set themselves. That's not normal. In the end, we will be left with those who are concerned about living in this society equally, not privileged, and the rest of us living as poor people in this society, of course we will insist on adopting solutions that will allow proper and normal coexistence in our society to all those living in this country, and we will by no means agree that some who are privileged will continue to be privileged and abuse individual institutions, individually investing in laws and through legislation will further strengthen their power and position in society. We're not gonna land like this, at least I'm not. I don't think the Slovenian Democratic Party is. I have a very important question here. Whether there are same-sex partnerships in such a situation and in such a state in our society that we have to spend almost a third of the time of this government and coalitions to solve the problem – even though I do not see such a problem as you are trying to stage – of the same-sex partnership communities, while on the other hand we have significantly more problematic problems in this society, which are equally discriminatory. The lady said today that by means of this law we are solving discrimination against same-sex partnerships. If this is the top topic and the key theme of this society under the circumstances, I must say that I must be really very worried and I am really very worried and I will now point out why. All those sitting here in the government coalition are right — and the government — to listen to this and start dealing with the essential problems of this society and not those that are not essential. I'm not saying they need to be saved, but they're not key. Far from being the key! I can't believe where this government coalition and this government and all these socialist-communist governments went. I don't know if your film's been completely ripped off. [[…]] You're acting, I'll say, with marginal matters contrary to those key things. You don't have to nod so much, ask the Slovenian people what they think about it, because you will soon see this opportunity in the elections. 120 thousand unemployed, 290,000 people below the poverty line, 160 thousand recipients of the Red Cross, 54 thousand recipients of social assistance, 410 thousand people at risk of social exclusion, 206,000 pensioners at the poverty line, 48 thousand recipients of minimum wage Are you not discriminated against? [[…]] And for these people, you don't bring any law, no solution, nothing to the National Assembly, and you're dealing with the things we're talking about today. Can you imagine where you went? Where did you go? Aren't you embarrassed in front of the entire Slovenian people? It is not awkward for you to sit here in Parliament and discuss almost a third of the time for same-sex partnerships, regulation of the status of same-sex partnerships, while on the other hand we have such a problematic situation in this society. How could a person here not be disappointed, sad that at the moment Slovenian society is the key same-sex partner community, but on the other hand we have half a million citizens and citizens practically at the threshold of poverty. And they're discriminated against to the extreme limit because they can't stop two kilos of bread a week. Go look at people who have €230 pension or €400 or €500 – for 40 years of work of €460 pension. Isn't that our society's problem? That's not the problem with us sitting in here? But the problem is the same-sex partners, the problem is they can't go there, I don't know what you're saying today. That's the key to society! This is how you want to save the future of Slovenia. And he can't trust you, look, not even a three-year-old child without trusting you citizens and citizens to run this government! They have indeed made a catastrophic mistake here, and I am sure they will never do it again. Listen to me, everyone sitting in Parliament. People wake up. Even the regime media won't help you, believe me. Not even this, I'm going to say, manipulations, pigs that I've seen on RTV 1 the last time, that I was going to throw up, that you're trying to manipulate political parties and you're using everything that's possible in this country to make a right-hand fight between right-centre customers. This is what you do to those who have received an order, a payment for doing so, just to break the right side or right middle, so that you cannot perform qualitatively at the next state elections. You're doing this, and it's all pre-cut. Shameful! Instead of dealing with what I read here from these papers and to solve this problem, not by any means trying to break the right middle or right centre party. I know exactly that and I must say it very openly and clearly here in front of the entire Slovenian public, from now on you are encouraging, you are making a riot, and then, when there are national elections, there are no left-wing, no guarantee, there will never be a vote for the right-centre or right-centre party. None, never. That is a fact, and we all know it very well. All of this is what makes me terribly sad that we are dealing with an absolutely rich problem, but we are not focusing on what is essential and priority for this country. I prefer jobs. That's a priority for me. What discrimination is going on here. If you're not left-handed, if you're not good with any left-wing stories, you can't get a job anywhere. Go take a look at the Febd SD, the Centre for Social Work and so on. Now things are starting to reveal a little bit about how this feud works at home, which is under strict SD cover. That's distasteful. And then another fevd, if we're talking about SMC, you're supporting these pigs that we're monitoring, what's actually going on at SDH, at the Ljubljana Bank, and not talking about DUBT now, the connection of the Factor Bank and so on and so on. These are the fundamental issues of this society and we are dealing with same-sex partnerships and here we are wasting our time on Cuba. Don't be really embarrassed in front of your Slovenian people! When the Slovenian people look at you here, they should come here, and – look, I really don't know what – take everything out of this Parliament blindly, because we don't have the right to sit here, really, because we're doing everything else, so you're doing everything else, except what's crucial to solving the problems of citizens and citizens, because we've been chosen. I'm talking about key issues. When this government, this coalition, solves the key problems of this society, there will be no problem in being able to deal with the same-sex partner communities, no problem, but knowing what the priorities are and you are not able to solve them. Unfortunately, you're not capable of them. Unfortunately, you're not capable of them. And then you abuse the media and I don't know what you're doing there so I don't talk. A few days or so ago, I don't know, a month ago, I was saying that EUR 4 billion is disappearing from the state budget at the annual level. Doesn't that seem important to you? Four billion will steal, those who hold their stand in a direct or direct way, and we are dealing with the same-sex partner communities here! Does that seem normal to you, please? What information and what meeting, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the Government and so on, took place after we received this information very widely? And so on and so forth. Look, really, I think the matter has gone too far to deal with the things that need to be solved, but first we must decide to solve those problems, the key things that are really necessary for the future development of our common country. Once we understand this, we will begin to act this way, and we will also work qualitatively to resolve what we have been elected as Members and Members of the Assembly of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Sasa Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u52	Madam President, I ask you to warn the debaters that they are somehow sticking to the themes of the agenda. Today we listened on the side of our colleague Pojbič about SDH and on the New Ljubljana Bank and on the centres for social work. Today we are discussing the law on partnership. We are discussing the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group. All the debaters so far have somehow stuck to at least the basic topic that we are dealing with today, unlike Mr Pojbič, and please warn him not to throw all the voters in the same basket. If Mr Pojbič was elected by voters who ranked human rights, the SMC Members certainly did not vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. You beat me up a little bit, but that's not why. Thus, we are in the amendment to the 8b membership of the NSI Group of Members. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I was thinking differently, and I'm going to have to respond to Mr. Pojbich. Mr. Pojbich, I don't know how privileged they are now, according to your assessment, how privileged a gay organization is. I'd be very happy if you could tell me how you see this privilege. Or is it by not even having basic rights? I would really recommend that in these bad two years you replace this one and only debate you have and know, it is really boring. You can't always talk about the bank hole, about the people who are hungry, about the laws that we adopt, and they're deemed unnecessary, while we have so many and so many unemployed. Let each one at least read a marriage, look at its contents, and focus on its contents. That's a little funny now. Perhaps it would be very good if you would stop threatening us about what will happen in the next election. You know, it's clean and completely unnecessary. You have repeatedly said that in Slovenia people have authority, I agree with you here. This is how people decided to vote, and the next one might be different, and we're at peace with it, at least I am. Whatever they decide, it'll be fine. If they elect you instead of me, of course they will have to listen to this one and only debate many times more, but it will be perfectly fine, it will be their decision. We certainly assess voters how credible we are, how credible a party is, and on this basis they will decide. And if we are no longer in Parliament, that will be the case. You've often wondered if we were embarrassed. Yes, Mr. Pojbich. It was very embarrassing for me to tell you that I was ashamed because people were watching this debate, and you know, I'm ashamed to be sitting in the same room as you. I'm on the subject. Today we are talking about the law on partnership. All those who believe in the Constitution, in particular in Article 14 thereof, and all those who believe, regardless of the Constitution and regardless of the legislation adopted, in equality and condemning any discrimination, today we have a lump in our throat. I've got it myself. Despite today's consideration of the bill tabled by my colleague Jani, I must say that I do not like it. I don't like it because it regulates things in half, it's not complete and it's not systemic. However, we rejected the proposal, which was systematic and which fully regulated matters, to give the same-sex couples all rights and obligations at the referendum. We have a compromise today. Once at the referendum, not the only one, it was the populism, the deception, the manipulation, the lies, but today we have a second chance. I'll take advantage of her, even though I don't completely like her. Why? Because I'm aware that right now that's all or the most we can do and what we can do. I don't understand why we're still getting involved and why we're talking about a problem that isn't or shouldn't be. Is it really not enough? Isn't this topic really chewed up? Yes, Mr Pojbič, it really works like we're spending a third of our time on this subject, but it's because of you, otherwise we'd have been saved a long time ago. Today it is no longer possible to talk about family redefinition, parent number one or two, adoption of children is no longer possible, there is nothing that bothered you at the time. You still think it is necessary to add salt to the open wound and, in fact, through these discussions, to humiliate people who are waiting for non-discriminatory legislation to regulate their rights as we all have. I think it's high time we took one step forward after a good 15 years, not back; and yes, to put this topic off the table. The bill is supported by the Government, supported by the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, supported by the Council of State, supported by the majority of Members, and truly inappropriate to talk, say, about public servants and the right to object to conscience. Our Constitution allows for the right to object to conscience and provides that it is admissible in cases established by law and does not restrict the rights and freedoms of others. Do you really not think that such an objection would affect the rights of others? Why should someone have trouble making a partnership? Why? What's the matter with him? What could be the problem? People of the same sex already live together today, want to be equal in some economic, social sense and you really think it's appropriate to deny them these rights and you think that this is not discrimination. It was a very good question for fellow Janje to ask, and for someone else, where such a thing could be concluded. Or is it true that someone will not want to serve drinks to the same - sex partners? Or maybe not there, I don't know when a teacher might want to ask a child who is sexually oriented or who is his parents? Where does all this lead us? I really don't know if you're aware that you're walking on a thin year and that you're actually telling people by your implementation that same-sex people are some kind of problem, because otherwise I don't understand why anyone would even think about objecting to conscience. As far as the public sector is concerned, where, of course, mothers belong, it is right to point out that anyone who is not prepared to comply with the legislation is probably not suitable for a public official whose main guide must be the Constitution and the law. Head guide. If we allowed every public servant to act on his conscience, there would be chaos, legal unpredictability. Is that what we want, do you want? We've had a lot of debates on this subject. Aleš Primc said, "In the civil initiative for family and children's rights, we support the rights of same-sex couples when it comes to adult rights, as well as the rights of children living in same-sex communities." Iva Dimic said: "Christian Democrats regarding the novel of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations we have always publicly warned that we do not oppose the regulation of the rights of same-sex couples." But today she will vote against it! She says she wants us to meet on a minimum common denominator. On the other hand, Aleš Primc said that the law supports 95%, so you do not consider it a minimum common denominator. It is all a total distraction, hypocrisy to read Cerar and to miss out on perhaps the most important part, which says, "if each of us could ever, at any time for personally justified moral, philosophical and similar reasons, renounce obedience to law, then legal regulation would soon be over." And let go of that sentence, and there's another one. Jelka Godec: In the SDS we support the rights of same-sex couples when it comes to social and natural rights between adults." But today will be Alice Godec against! Ludmila Novak Nova Slovenija certainly wants to regulate the status of same-sex communities. She will now vote against it. You all want, you all support, then let's just do it one more time. Unfortunately, words don't count much, but actions. Now is the time to show whether you are serious and how sincere these support and desire are. I find it hard to believe that you and the Prejudice gave birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbich has the first replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u56	Madam Vice President. I apologize to Mrs Girl and to all those who have misinterpreted me when I explained how I see a particular problem. I was talking about the specific problems of this society. If the Member of the Girl and the Coalition and the party from which the Girl comes do not understand this, then it is logical that this government and this coalition react as it reacts, that we do not have to list once again, 120 thousand unemployed, that we have a third of the people and so on who are discriminated against. And we are talking here about those problems that are not at the moment crucial for the survival of this country. Mrs Girl, you will obviously never understand this; whether you live in such a capital-strong family or how, I don't know this, but then it can't be clear anyway, because you've never tried these things on your skin and then you'll never know what it means to have 230, 430 and 530 euros in pensions or even wages. You'll never know. I wanted to, and I am, and I want to talk in this National Assembly about the key problems of this society, not to deal with irrelevant things when we talk side by side to those old ones. I am not saying that these are completely irrelevant, of course they are important. The problems, including the same-sex ones, need to be solved, but they are not nearly as problematic as the ones I was talking about, that at this point this government and this coalition should spend one third of their mandate to achieve the same-sex end-to-end happiness, satisfaction and so on. It seems to me that this is not crucial at this time, but this problem must also be solved. But priority should be given to solving what I said: unemployment, low pensions and so on; what is crucial so that the Slovenian people can survive. If you feel that this is less important or you do not understand it, unfortunately such a coalition and such a government has absolutely nothing to look for. You better pack and go today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u57	There's no replica to the replica. Second replica of Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u58	I'd like to ask Mrs. Girl to state my name, if she's quoting me, as it should be. That, please, would have been very nice after this time, because this person you quoted doesn't exist in the National Assembly. But as far as I'm concerned, if that was my last name or last name you mentioned, I have to say, yes, that was probably my statement, if you quoted me from the tape, I don't deny it. But I'm talking about this law touching again chapter 4 of the Marriage and Family Relations Act. And once again, don't fool people, Mrs. Girl, we're talking about adoptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The speaker, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. You know, when Pojbich comes by, I always have to think seriously about what he was going to say. Not to underestimate him far from this, but because he uses the same thesis; only certain subjects in this country are important, the rest is secondary. Who in this country has ever reported this to anyone? O.K. Those who know know, know, those who don't, but have time to think. I really don't mind Mr Pojbich, because I can see that the idea is still dawning in him. There's nothing wrong with that. That's actually good. However, there is something to know; immeasurable hatred – and one of the fundamental rights if we are to deal with all the social problems that we have and the economics, it is. that we must first stop discrimination. First of all, we must respect these fundamental values if we are to go after the others. Because you know, Mr. Pojbich, you've forgotten one thing. The gays, whom you so distastefully like to talk about as second-rate citizens, are citizens, pay taxes, are poor among them, are unemployed among them, and have all kinds of problems and problems, as are all of us together. So please, let me think about it sometime before you say anything. So we don't get too embarrassed in life. In fact, if it's a gay lobby, because you have it so, I'll say, problematic, first tell me who it is, that we'll know what imaginary group we're talking about. Because I know quite a few gays among you, so they have problems because they don't know they're still in the lobby, because they have their own interests. But let me tell you, if this lobby is so strong and so hateful and problematic, how did it not solve this problem from 1998 until today — if they are so powerful? Let me explain, I don't understand! Because successful lobbying — those who were in this room — was one of the most powerful lobbyists and the disabled lobby — achieved some kind of results. The gay lobby seems to suck. It doesn't work because it doesn't work. Twice in the referendum, repeatedly in law, the right hand always owns, even in the European space, a kind of right to deal with gay issues in its own way with its prism of eyes. Do you know when the problem will be solved? When he's in the National Assembly, I'm not going to talk about this anymore, because that means he's going to be saved. I want it more than you do, at least I've shown more. You have a problem with that. I wonder what it would be like to have a gay hug once. That's the day I want my heart. But, O.K. Look, we're gonna have to line up. Today we are talking about certain issues on gay issues and specifically the Partnerships Act, which will regulate only socio-economic rights. Nothing else! Everything else is, I'll say, manipulating, misleading, and I'm sorry, Mr. Pojbich, it's terrible for me because we're only going to have to deal with this in half. But, at least something; let yourself have so much dignity that as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, who represents not only the place where he was elected, but represents all citizens and citizens, among other things, you will not believe, nor will gays. And give the same rights, because people are because they grow up from a small one, they get to know each other and they run into real problems that you probably haven't had in your life. First, they get rid of them because they show their differences, then they have prejudices before them through the school system, the education system, the social system, not to talk about family problems when parents reject them. Then they come before the fundamental right to want to be with someone they love and love and only want to make a partnership with him, and you see the whole god, the devil behind you, because it's gonna take something away from you. Are you gonna have sex with them or something? Are you going to share property with them or will you not know what you're going to do with them? Give them the right to regulate those who are concerned only with them, for nothing touches your rights. Tell me one right that touches your rights! Mr Pojbič, this is rude and unworthy of the Member, what you are doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbich has the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In this way, as Mr Möderndorfer has now done, I think it is very difficult to replicate, but it seems important to me that he has also said some inaccuracies, because I have not spoken obnoxiously about gays, I have said what I think about this group of people; I have said very publicly but not obnoxiously. If you've seen an abomination in this, it's your problem, not mine. I didn't even see it that way. I think that people, Mr Möderndorfer, at the referendum four months ago said very clearly how and what about this issue. Very clear! The will of the people, which you often like to talk about, and even now you have spoken among yourselves, is sacred to me. It is a world for me; as a Member, as a politician, regardless of which party I come from, it is a world. For you, Mr Möderndorfer, there is nothing sacred except personal interests, the interests of such and other interests as you are trying to impose on some others. Why these interests are as different as you say they are from mine and you know the answer to this question only you and I will not deal with them because it is neither my business nor my desire. I do not want to go into your personal matter, I have told you for the last time that it would be nice to discuss some things, that if I do not go down and talk about you, then speak with dignity, dignity in the National Assembly and this dignified and dignified and not to go down to the personal level instead of discussing the content. [[…]] I was just discussing it the way I was. And it is right that I am discussing, as I think, and you are not discussing, as I think, but I would ask you — we have already talked about this in person — that you will not go down to the personal level and you will not always hear the name and surname of Marijan Pojbič. How can I hear how I didn't even mention you in my debate, and you can't handle it? Who is now the one who is impatient who is troubled — me or you? Tell that to the Slovenian public. I'm not troubled because I haven't touched you in a single word, not in a single word, not even mentioned you. I wouldn't mention Miss Girl if she hadn't mentioned me five times inside her own debate. Because I think it's stupid to go to a personal level. If we're talking about a political group, a party, not a personal one about people, that would seem normal, fair and responsible to me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u63	Replica [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u64	But you decide, whatever you decide, I've been talking about important issues. [[…]] I am sure that these questions are for citizens and citizens [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u65	Replica, three minutes [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u66	These questions that I have been talking about are essential and one hundred and one hundred times more important than those that you've been talking about. [[…]] And at the same time, I've stressed and I'm done. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u67	Mr. Pojbich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u68	– yes, I conclude with this sentence only – that this issue that we are talking about today must be resolved, but let us address the issues that are most important in this society at this time and which have escalated most. [[…]] When we solve this when this government solves this and this coalition, then we can solve these things at the same time, not spend a third of our mandate on [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u69	Mr Pojbich, replica [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u70	same-sex partnerships. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much. That in the SMC Group, as I said before, we do not rank human rights, that some seem a little more important to us, some little less important or that the status of some citizens is a little bit more important to some of them.This simply does not hold up, we will never agree to such ranking in the SMC Group, and for this reason we support the partnership law. [[…]] Instead, we are hunting for adoption, to recall that this law, of course, indirectly regulates the rights of health care, health insurance, pension, disability insurance, as a consequence, also touches on the criminal procedure, the general legal procedure, the judicial procedure, the rights provided for in the Housing Law and the Bond Code. I would like to say that, given that the law, as we have repeatedly explained in our discussions, Members of the SMC have explained that, of course, we do not touch on the role of motherhood and paternity and, consequently, do not adopt third-country children or third-country children. So — what is essential to clarify? Any individual, when fulfilling certain conditions, may adopt a child, i.e. a non-biological child, if, of course, as I said, he meets certain conditions. A person can do this not only today, but he has been able to do it for the last 40 years at least. However, the same-sex partnership cannot enter into the adoption procedure because it is only allowed to have a male-female marriage. The fact. Thus, this adoption procedure does not and does not allow this Partnership Act. It doesn't allow it! Thus, given that this law actually offers some important solutions to deal with the very specific situations facing same-sex couples every day, and given that it is extremely accurate in terms of the political debate or political resolution of the status of same-sex persons, it seems to me that it is extremely right and at least it should be due to our previous discussions, that is, the discussions of colleagues from the SDS, the New Slovenia and other parliamentary groups, at least correctly, to those debates and also to some principle of human empathy, that we should unanimously support this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Jasna Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much again. I cannot say that I personally and in our Group of Members consider the issue of human rights to be very important. That's what we decide today. If we look only at our constitution, we have general provisions and immediately behind it human rights and fundamental freedoms. Article 14 speaks of equality before the law, Article 14 of the Constitution. So, this is, if I speak a little in the afternoon, top theme, one of the most important topics that we can have in our country at all – equality before the law. Human rights are one of the most important subjects. If we remember a little bit back when Slovenia came into existence when it gained independence, it was precisely because in the former Yugoslavia they did not respect human rights in a consistent manner and that is why Slovenia also created this constitution, which contains these human rights and is very important and the principle of equality before the law is one of the most important principles. Now, with regard to where development is going in the world, the development of interpretation, where the interpretation of this equality is going to develop, I would just like to recall the judgment of the United States Supreme Court last year concerning the marriage of the same-sex partners. Some, even on my left, like to refer to the values that this country also represents and somehow to those investors and all and value, how important economic activity is and I don't know what. It would be good for us to follow the example of Slovenia — this is my personal conviction — to at least read what the Supreme Court of the United States judgment says. What, though, did this court consider in this judgment about the equality of marriage between same - sex partners? The Court found that marriage is the basis of our social order and that there is no difference in this principle between same-sex and diversified couples. Watch out, U.S. Supreme Court! The U.S. Supreme Court found this and said, quote, "restricting the right to same-sex marriage to same-sex couples may have been natural and fair for a long time, but the unconsistency of this restriction with the central meaning of the marriage and the right to its conclusion is now more than obvious. It must also come to the realization that laws that rule out same-sex couples from the institution of marriage create the kind of stigma that our society should reject by our fundamental nature. The right to a marriage is fundamental from the historical point of view and from the perspective of tradition, but rights do not come only from ancient sources, they also come from a better and more informed understanding of how constitutional imperatives define freedoms that are of exceptional importance in modern society. Many who view same - sex marriages as wrong reason their conclusions on similar and honorable religious and philosophical precepts. The implementation of same-sex marriages does not want to devalue their beliefs or their own; however, when their personal opposition becomes a valid law and public policy, their consequence is that the State itself becomes the one who excludes, humiliates and stigmatizes those whose freedom is denied. The same-sex couples are following the same legal treatment as diversified couples, so denying this right would be an evaluation of their potential and denial of their personality." This is a translation of the text of the judgment of the United States Supreme Court adopted last year in 2015. I hope that this will also be our direction, and that we will also eliminate definitive discrimination in Slovenia. I salute this law. I will say again because I think that what is possible at this time is in our legal order, and that is why I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. I apologize, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, first of all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much. On the contrary, I was previously told that I misunderstood someone and that I always have some problems with Mr Pojbich, who is not in the hall again, because he just comes and recites it. I could be at least that correct if he was dealing with this topic, but at least that topic would be in there. The fact is, on Twitter, I read the following article: "Mr. Pojbich, I am gay and you speak very contemptuously and I feel humiliated that you talk about us in the National Assembly." So it is not a question of whether I misinterpret this; it is a question that the community no longer understands what some Members and Members say. Excuse me, once again, let us understand that gays, lesbians, and a few other groups are, which we will talk about in the future, people bleeding under the skin, with the same needs and with the same rights. Who gives us the right to judge them, to have different rights? Who gives us that right? I'll say Christianity. Oh, God doesn't even have that right! Not even God, but we'll take it into our own hands!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! We have been challenged several times and, last but not least, we are also talking about the amendment of New Slovenia on the objection of conscience. Let me say that in New Slovenia we have made a difficult decision to vote against. Opinions were shared and, in fact, from this point of view, the exceptions to the things that we had opposed in the past could even be supported by the law. None of us speak abusively of the same-sex people, but the greatest reason why we will not support this law is you, Mr. Möderndorfer – Dr. Möderndorfer said the last time – who keep us enlightened, enlightened, enlightened, reminded of what human rights are, what is ethical, moral and right. Please! If I were to support this law, what would I support? I would support what Mr Möderndorfer wrote and underlined with the oil press, not just because of the fact that the Coalition is for children! its opposition to the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and the referendum campaign of building on prejudices, non-truths, lies, fears that it represented the interests of the holy seat or the Vatican State, which must not interfere in internal affairs and so on. What did you tell me with that? That I'm a liar, that I'm delusional, that I'm xenophobic, and that I represent the interests of the holy seat and so on. And then you expect me to support this law so that Members of the New Slovenia will support this law. I tried to explain: well, the law is one, the introduction, the explanation of the other. No! No! We, too, have competent lawyers who have said that explanations and introductions are important. If they weren't important, they wouldn't be, because they're expressing some intention, the purpose of this law. And you say, I don't know, 394,000 or how many voters who voted in the referendum against being gullible, being naive, believing they're lying, being xenophobic, dark people and so on. That's what you're reporting. You filed the law the next day after the referendum and the law introducing the one-year moratorium – it still applies. So you've also filed it for the purpose of forging political points, which you're somewhere reading to the Children's Coalition, and now you're using this topic yourself. As for the objection to conscience, when the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities proposed or put forward their proposal for public debate, we also cited this possibility there. Mr Vatovec spoke of our gloomyness, this is called North Carolina, we know that it is the Federal State of the United States of America, South Africa, Canada, Scotland, the Netherlands – the very Dark States by your definition. And why did we make that suggestion? I'll tell you my own experience, but don't think I'm fighting for you now. Since 2003, I have been authorised to enter into marriages. I do it with joy and I do it on the request of various couples and many times, but I don't want to talk about bragging, it happened to me that they said, "This was the first civil wedding that really seemed like a real, nice ceremony." Because I did this with my heart, with my soul, with the desire to tell this couple something honestly about their future marriage. That doesn't mean, but I know, even though I have the same respect for all people, that if I had to make a different relationship, it would be hard to do so with a heart like that. And they would be the least deprived because I could make this ceremony formal, I would read that general speech that the administrative unit has prepared. I always say my speech; what I think, what I feel, and I do it with my heart, not for money, because it's not enough for a hairdresser. These couples would be the most disadvantaged, and I believe that there are so many people in our society who would be happy to do that, and they would do it nicely and allow them to do it the way they want it, and that it's beautiful. If we are talking about public servants, see, even in medicine, there are public servants or in the public sector, and they have a chance to object when it comes to abortion and similar matters, even when serving a military term, we had a chance to object to conscience. So from this point of view, I think it's nothing wrong, because countries are, who have this possibility of objecting to conscience, because it's good for these people. Look, we have different values, and I will believe that you are to respect human rights when you also respect this diversity. For me, all people are equal, but we have different opinions on marriage, on same-sex, and we have this right and we have the right. But respect that, too. Now look, when we consider this next law, and we will talk about this advocate of equality or how it will be said, but here I am really afraid that freedom of speech will be reduced, because we see that there are different approaches and different opinions on what hate speech is. For us Christians, after a long and grumbling period, there are many things to do with us, ranging from xenophobia to hostility, gloominess and not knowing what else to do, and if we tell us that marriage, marriage value or anything like that, we are already xenophobic, dark, and I do not know what else. That's what I'm really worried about when someone takes the right to decide on the freedom of someone else's speech, which is why we already have the Penal Code, where you can sue someone and the court will decide on it, and there will be some advocates, some inspections will decide on it. However, Mrs Janja Slug said that second-class citizens were equally targeted. That's what she said, I never said that, and I would never defend it, or I would always object. However, if we have already talked about what the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities should do, I think it has a lot of work to do, after two years parents or scholarships are waiting for answers when they make a complaint to decisions, do not get an answer, but many times it is their lifespan when they have no money or they have to pay back scholarships, even though they have made complaints and are not resolved. Then not to speak of parental rights, but the father who killed the mother of his children still has the parental right. We know how many such cases there are in Slovenia. So, the ministry is not doing its job, this is not the most important topic, I want to get rid of it, but, Mr Möderndorfer, not in the way you want to solve it, because you are cooking political points at the expense of the same-sex people who really need to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u80	Mrs Novakova, look, I appreciate and respect you, but please, I am not teaching you anything and I am not enlightening you. If that's how you feel about it, it's your perception, not mine. But it is true that in my family they worked in enlightenment, and perhaps there is something else left for me to like to endure some of my conduct toward others, whether they will accept it or not. But you yourself know as a teacher whether you really accept this knowledge or not. And it's a matter of personality, how it forms. But I won't agree with that work, you know, when you speak for the Christians. I am a Christian myself, so that this will not work together, you know that you throw everything into the same basket because I do not fit into this basket of Christians who would defend values like yours, and I do not read them to you. Well, that's got to be different. I don't read, and I don't blame anyone for having a different opinion. However, the fact is that in one thing, regardless of our global view, we have to adopt certain solutions that will, in the first place, respect for Article 14 of the Constitution, and that we will not make a difference between us. That's what I'm talking about. And far from giving you any offense! Not at all, I will continue to respect and appreciate you, even though you will not vote for it. But as far as the political points are concerned, believe me, I'm not getting a single vote because of this law, away from it. Because neither those for whom this law is written is satisfied, nor those against it. And if we're still looking at the result of the referendum, believe me, I'm a doom for that. That way I don't get credit for something I can't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u82	I must say that it is probably the main or one of the main reasons that Mr Jani Möderndorfer has tabled this bill with such anger. Once again, this proves a bold, underlined text, written with anger, egotism, also proves this text. I am very sorry that such an interpretation of the law, which in your opinion equates all rights of same-sex partners with the marriage of husband and wife, can come to the National Assembly with such a text. And, yes, the proponent, you teach us that if we advocate motherhood and fatherhood, homophobics, that if we defend our position, you mark us as not what we are all. From what it says in here, liars, cowards and I don't know what it's all about, it's inappropriate for someone who's going to be the same candidate or part of the proponents on discrimination. [[…]] This is unacceptable, however, for such a text, bouldered, underlined on 22 December 2015, two days after the referendum, to come to the National Assembly. I pictured you writing it in anger, ideologically, with all this text, that now we're going to show someone a little less than 400,000 people what we think of them. And to allow yourself then to interfere politically with the referendum's proposal, as Mr Primc announced immediately after the referendum, and you write that, as his previous actions show, he will build his political agenda on discrimination, homophobia, opposition to the rights of the smaller, recalculation or elimination of secularism, etc. You mark someone in advance, what his program will be like, how it will work! And then here you are talking about human rights, non-discrimination and so on! I am very sorry – here I have to agree with Mrs Ludmila Novak – when you get such a text in your hands, it is difficult to read the law and read it with that background, that it was written with anger, egotism and ideology. This debate also tells us today that we are homophobic, that we do not know everything – just not the proposer, but everything on average. I won't allow it! If I advocate motherhood, paternity, I'm not homophobic. And that the secretary-general, the secretary-general, would say, "You have just all those who agree with the bill." Yeah, what's the rest of us? The Ministry tells us when, who's right. That's a literal quote from your statement today. Why was no law or bill adopted by your government or your proposal to equalize the same sexes? Since this has always been pushed into some laws, CSDs have been used, CSD reorganisations and so on to do so. But you didn't have me not to tell you what to do with the marriage itself. Oh, no! You just pushed somewhere to hide it and use other things for these things. And no, the Ministry can't tell us who's right, who's the one in the National Assembly who advocates the right things. As it is, I think the proposer also found out, everyone can defend their opinions and you can't talk to us from the Ministry. As regards the fact that public servants who do not respect the Constitution and the law cannot operate in public administration. I agree. Then go ahead. The Ministry of Education does not respect the Constitution or the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court at ZOFVI said: private, public schools, one year – it is more than one year, the minister does not respect it. So I won't keep counting, 'cause then I'll be out of the dark. In this way, Mrs Janja Slug, who has spoken this, should take a little look at the parliamentary dishes or at what the SMC has been supporting. To return to the ZZDR; of course, we return because we talk about it in this law. Then you can't say we can't – now let's leave this ZZDR. See, if you are told in Article 2, paragraph 2, that such a relationship has the same legal consequences in all legal areas as marriage, unless this law provides otherwise. So it's about the ZZDR. That's why we're going back to ZZDR, so that's what we're talking about. Look at your colleague from Desus, how confused she was when I told her that she could be adopted into a partnership community, a same-sex partnership community. The lady was completely confused. Obviously, I don't know how you explained in the coalition that you told her that biologically, but otherwise not. Of course, in the debate itself, you said you couldn't go together, but you could do it alone. Well, I'm not just talking about biologicals. So look, colleague Jasna, I mean, I have to say that in some things I agree with you, even if you stand up for things to go on, even in other areas, and so there's nothing wrong with you that you're so, I'll say, fighting as you said yourself you'll take it further. Nice. But I'm gonna go back to that tweet anyway, because I have to tell you because I didn't have a replica before. In fact, he was mentioned in the context immediately after the referendum. Twitt was like this. One gentleman or colleague, someone, or yours, wrote, "We know who's to blame. The Constitutional Court, you in the D.Z. that you supported, you were gold. I appreciate you more than one of the left-hand parties who didn't even want to join the campaign." And then your answer, Mrs. Murgel: "O.K. I feel guilty that we failed. I know it's not my fault, but it's my fault. I really care. Thank you for that comment. We'll work on other things, too. One year goes by quickly, we replace the judges of the Constitutional Court." That's what I was talking about in the first debate. To replace the Constitutional Judges on the basis of the referendum, because it was a statement. And then you told me I was making it up. That was right after the referendum that day. Changing constitutional judges on the basis that you were angry because you did not go through a referendum, changing constitutional judges, the next step, a possible step – I am not saying that there will be, but a possible step – this law is unconstitutional and will adopt a law that will be exactly the same as it was at the referendum. It's a possible option. But I'm saying you're talking about switching constitutional judges right after the referendum. Unacceptable! But that's the expression of what you think, probably. Maybe too fast. Since I didn't have a replica before, I had to say that it was right after the referendum. Whatever the opinion or whatever it was - but this is your effort to make the Constitutional Court different in this area. And we return to these human rights, as has been said in the debate, and to quote the Supreme Court of America. When we talked about this at the referendum, we were marked in one way or another that America is far away and I don't know what kind of cases we're giving -- the same cases that the applicant said about the florist and the hairdresser, or I don't know what. The same cases, they laughed on the board, and they giggled. We were talking about an American court. We have our own courts, we have our own ZDR. However, the ECHR stated clearly and loudly: marriage is not a human right, the child is not a human right. That's what I'm talking about. Not about the U.S. Supreme Court, but about our courts or the ECHR, which is closer to us, to which we refer and not to the U.S. Court. I must say, the proposaler expresses in his proposal a great deal of anger, a great deal of resentment, because the people did not listen to him. And that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u83	The replica has Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Now once again, the strategy of SDS is: Repeat, repeat, repeat, until it becomes true, not what I think is true. Yeah, I wrote that, that sentence, but the interpretation is yours. It was after the referendum, he did, I wrote, "We're changing judges." We're changing judges here in the National Assembly. Is it true? Yeah. And that was what I was thinking. Hang yourself, everyone, and I don't know who else will take this statement. Find me another thing I did sooner or later to influence the Constitutional Court! One sentence alone can't reflect what I'm doing, what I'm thinking and what I'm going to do. Please stop putting words in my mouth or anywhere I say or now you're telling me what I meant. It is possible that because of the awkwardly written sentence it was understood that way, but I have explained it more than once, I have not, will not and will never intend to influence the election of the Constitutional Court in any illegal and illegal way – please, if I may, Mrs Jelka, say to the end what I have in the replica. Well, I'm not, I'm not, and I didn't mean it, as you understood. This is your problem, not mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State – I know you're coming back – dear colleagues and colleagues! We have an extremely sensitive social issue and sensitive social issues ahead of us, at least we in Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats expect to be resolved by some dialogue and consensus. It's not going to work here, at least it shouldn't be about speeding up, who's going to be someone, who's going to show bigger muscles in rhetoric, waving hands, or with more underlined and bolder texts. This is a very sensitive social issue that Christian Democrats want to tackle in concrete terms for at least 10 years. Yeah, I'll say it again. At the time, at the time of the 2004-2008 government, on the proposal of the Minister of New Slovenia, Mr Janez Drobnič, we adopted in the National Assembly the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership – after many years of left coalitions, which said that this must be resolved, etc., and no one saved that. We then, honestly, had quite a few problems in our electoral body so that we could explain why this issue needs to be resolved and solved. Not ideally, because we are not ideal people, we are not an ideal customer, but we understand that this issue needs to be resolved within our legal system, within our constitution, and here I don't care about a lecture on regulations in the United States. This belongs, perhaps, to some law college, because there is some money to make, but we are here to accept Slovenian solutions for Slovenian society, ladies and gentlemen; taking into account what colleague Jelka Godec has already said that we are members of the European Union, that we have decided on this membership through a referendum because Slovenia's membership in the European Union represents our fundamental value and political framework. Last but not least because we have a European Court of Human Rights, and not least because this court has said that a child is not a human right. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment, which we have tabled, has been carefully considered and I think we have written in explanation the best possible, this is the text presented by Dr Miro Cerar, current Prime Minister. Yes, there has been a talk about this and I think it is still necessary to talk, a pity that we cannot bring him here today, that the proposaler could probably do to tell what spirit he, Dr. Miro Cerar, wrote this text regarding his opposition to conscience. I'd like to be criticized myself now, but you're probably going to criticize me, but you're going to move back to America again as a colleague of Dr. Jasna Murgel, and as you'd like to refer to Frančišek more than once, no one has said that on a visit to the United States, Holy Father Francis visited that mother who was in prison because she didn't want to perform the marriage ceremony between two same-sex partners. I am also an authorized person for the conclusion of marriages in the Lendava Administrative Unit, which means, in fact, a wider one, and yes, even if a young couple asks me to do the wedding ceremony, I will really try with a special address, etc. So I'm doing it heartily, that's, honestly, some kind of honor. I'm sure you could find loving people who will make a loving marriage between two same - sex partners. I probably wouldn't be able to do it as heartily as, if you'll excuse me, colleague Möderndorfer. Why don't I have this chance to say, look, I won't, I can't, I can't, let someone do it better? Why, ladies and gentlemen, should we adopt some laws to coerce people? Why? Marriage, one way or another, you know, it's not tax money. You can use the tax box to push some innkeeper, who sells five sparklers a day, so he'll have to get the equipment and so on and so forth. This is a matter of much more sensitive questions. I have before me today, December 20, 2015. In fact, I have 623 thousand people in front of me, Slovenes and Slovenians, who are different, whether political parties, civil society, civil initiatives have mobilized and invited to vote. 623 thousand, of which almost two-thirds, no 63%, voted against the law tabled by the United Left Group on Christmas Eve 2014 in the national assembly procedure. Yes, 24 December 2014! For me, the referendum is one such powerful democratic instrument that I cannot afford or think for a day after the referendum that another, a different solution must now be put in the National Assembly. I know for the honest purposes of Mr Jani Möderndorfer, the proposer, that is, the fair purpose in his political spectrum, the political orientation that this is – what he has also said honestly – so I say fair purposes – he has rightly said that this is only the first step towards full equality. That's what this is about. I also find it hard to understand, I don't know, that maybe you didn't explain what you were experiencing that night when you saw the results, of course, off the record, on December 20th, that you pulled it out of the drawer – because you already had it written, the authors are, you can think of who, you're a signatory, you're the proponent – that then the next day you put it into the state assembly procedure. And of course, it is necessary to look not only at the articles, I always go brother goals of the law, the purpose of the law and so on and I will not repeat now what my colleagues and colleagues have already read, what you have already read on page 8, which you have even underlined, even wrote with a fat press where you have actually brutally attacked a civil initiative For Children!, the Coalition For Children is going!, in which many members of New Slovenia, loyal members, will not go to any other party if you are concerned, and that you have actually assessed that the referendum campaign was built on prejudices, non-truths, lies, fears and that it represented the interests of the holy seat. Yeah, talk about recycling and so on. You probably didn't hope, but you forgot to write Muslims who are the family of the world. That family that Francis says is fundamental, too. That it's the foundation. And when you begin to disrupt the foundation, you disrupt society. Not to do this in the case of Slovenian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u88	Two of them have already declared that they are in charge of marriage. I am also an officer in charge of marriage, but I will be happy to conclude such a partnership, and I also believe that gay couples, lesbian couples who want to enter into a partnership, will first ask about a parent or an attorney, whether he has any interest or not, and will turn to him and ask him if he can conclude their partnership. Now, since it's already been said three times, four times, look, there was no soot that night, there was no anger, there was no anger, none of what's going on in your heads, and you want to blame me. True, the computer knows morbidity and understatement, and by doing so we want to give some important weight to what we have said. And today, I tell you, the Vatican has meddled directly through the Slovenian Church in the referendum and I've only said what I mean and what I'm sure of, and interfered with things that I don't think are good and wrong, and with that, of course, it also shares, I'll say, Slovenian society. The second is about Mr. Primac and the association or civil initiative for children! Look, personally, I've already told you many times, and I'll say it again: it is unworthy that those who are against the same-sex partners and do not want to give them the same rights, that he will also regulate their rights, and that he will eventually be a saint and a proposer, how is it right to handle this? But he can propose, but I will always be as a Member, and if I have this option, of course I would object to such a way of working. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The objection to conscience, as explained by the New Slovenia Group, is simply exaggerated, too wide and follows simply certain inconsistencies that could in any way endanger the legal order. This is really what Dr. Cerar wrote about, whose statement was taken out of context – both colleague Ludmila Novak and, of course, colleague Horvat. If, of course, Mr Horvat were sitting in the hall when we discussed this, he could have heard it and could have gotten into his debate, not that he came two minutes before his performance and actually started the debate today from the beginning. When we talk about ethical abstinence, we need to understand that doctors have the right to have this objection because they make a statement to save their lives, and therefore they have the right to object when they are told that they have to do abortion. However, if a pregnant woman is at risk of life, the doctor does not have the right to object to her conscience. It's also with the soldiers you mentioned. True, a soldier has the right to object to the fact that, of course, he takes a weapon and shoots someone, he has the right to do so. Why? Because ethical prisms need to understand how life is viewed. We cannot, however, talk about the objection in some of the procedures for the conclusion of partnerships or marriages. It just doesn't work that way, and we've already explained why it doesn't work. When she was already a colleague, unfortunately she was no longer in the Chamber, she said that the possibility of this proposal being unconstitutional was not true, because the bill actually respected the Constitutional Court's decision of 2009, 2013 and 2015 and also in certain segments solved the issue of the sixty-members of the other laws, which could potentially be unconstitutional. [[…]] Thus, of course, the law itself cannot be unconstitutional. When we are talking about a bill, we are certainly talking about a law that in a way represents a message to society that there is a consensus about the status of the same-sex persons and that it is simply no different than then we accept at least the points on which we agree. Because the simple community of LGBT exists in Slovenia, it exists, it will exist, and it is currently waiting, because it currently has no rights, which we are talking about today. No, it's not. To some extent, the bill will respect some point, at least those around which, unfortunately, it has led to this, we need to agree. Let's at least respect that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr Joseph Horvath, I hope there will be no abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u92	No, it will not, I never abuse procedural proposals, Madam Vice-President. However, I would just like to ask you, Madam President, to remind your distinguished colleague, Saš Tabakovic, or to ask him who is more sitting in this Chamber; or the Member in the back seat, number 90, Josef Horvat or Mr Saša Tabakovic, who would like to tell him further on this occasion that the objection to conscience is human rights. We can have marathon debates here, I don't have time, and I don't want to abuse the procedural proposal, but maybe sometimes some meeting on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to respond to that cheap populism that we're used to by my colleague Pojbič, now he's trying to discredit the debate on this law in some way by the fact that the government here – and I'm not playing her devil's lawyer – does not deal with important topics, with poverty in particular I think that every time we step up and point out who has led to this poverty. [[…]] Remember who sold state property between 2004 and 2008 with the help of the government and the Soda. Let us also recall the pension reform, which also partly helped to ensure that pensioners are in the same status as they are today, and in another government when the infamous ZUJF was adopted. In short, these were all good points for being where we are today, that we have 300,000 people on the threshold or below the threshold of poverty and so on. So talking about how nobody else but the SDS Group is dealing with poverty is nothing more than a hypocrisy. What did they do to at least correct the mistakes they made? At the time of the adoption of the Budget Implementation Act 2016 and 2017, we proposed to raise the minimum income to EUR 385 in the United Left. This would, of course, contribute to improving the standard of living of people living on the edge of society. This is what we have proposed by getting the money to raise the level of corporate income tax to 20%, as we have also proposed. How did they vote in the SDS? Of course not. So much concern is expressed then in action for those who are poorest. I would also like to mention which government has reduced the corporate profit tax from 25% to 17% – of course, the first and second government of Janš. Now, colleague Pojbič also said that economic growth is the best recipe against poverty. Economic growth will not help poor pensioners, the long-term unemployed and those who are unemployed. Aid to these groups is possible only with social benefits. Economic growth also does not mean reducing poverty. We saw this at the time of Janša's first government, when between 2007 and 2008, when the so-called economic miracle occurred, the number of the poor increased by 16 000, so that these are enough eloquent data. But if we go back to the amendment. A colleague of Ludmila Novak said that as an attorney, she could not make a relationship with her heart, in short, a partnership, so to speak, to an same-sex couple. I think it's just saying one thing and that's it, I'll be very honest that you're not fit to do this job. Reference also to the Republic of South Africa. Let us remember that they had apartheid there by 1989, so I think that the standards that apply in such a country would highlight the following, the conclusion of a marriage, the claim of marriage or the partnership in this case, which we are currently considering, is a civil contract. [[…]] It is something that is decided after and subordinated to the Slovenian legal order. Here I would point to Article 7 of the Constitution, the State and the religious communities are separate, so that the argument of reference to a religious and other philosophical belief in the case of something which falls under the domain of the State is totally inappropriate. The conclusion of a relationship is also something that is the activity of a parent, an officer or a chief, and if he has certain reservations, he is not obliged to do this work, but in such cases he should in fact not carry out this work and find another job or other profession. And I'm going to repeat that argument why not support this amendment. The objection to conscience is a right which is enshrined in the Constitution, but this right is not unconditional and has a very clear condition in the Constitution: if it does not prejudice the rights of others; and the amendment of the United Left Group interferes with the rights of others, in short, in the case of two – New Slovenia – I apologize – interferes precisely with the right of two persons who wish to enter into an same-sex partnership.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u96	Please warn Mr Vatovac that he cannot decide in general whether I am fit to marry or not. I've been given authority by the Chief of Management, over a hundred couples I've reported, always asked for new ones for their reasons. Apparently, they think I'm appropriate, and he can't just do it, even if I said I couldn't do it with my heart.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u98	Madam Vice-President, I ask you to remind Mr Vatovec that if he speaks and mentions certain information here, which is not correct, he should, if he speaks, state precisely. When he spoke of the Janša government, 2004-2008, let him say that when Janša's 2004 government adopted the leadership of that country, there were 96 000 unemployed, and 2008, when Janša's government completed its mandate, there were 56 000 more. For 40,000 new jobs took place between 2004 and 2008, during the reign of Janez Janš. The second thing that happened was that in 2008 it was the first time there was a balance sheet, 2007-2008, of the budget. At the time, public debt was around €6-7 billion, but now it is 33 or I don't know how much. Please, Mr Vatovec, mention some things for the first time in Parliament, and to me who is four mandates, and I ask you nicely to check what you are saying and not to say some nonsense and some things to your mind and to speak about the SDS over and over and over again. The SDS has done something for this society in its history, the United Left — and people will ask themselves what they have done until now, except that they are not fighting at the convention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 8b and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you. I'll talk about both of them by 9/11. We are only trying to do one thing with the amendments, and that is to shorten the process of implementing this law. In the original proposal, this deadline was 6 months, with an amendment to the Committee extended to 9 months. I think it's some unnecessary extension of this deadline. I think that within six months, the ministry would be able to coordinate everything that is necessary with regard to the register of origin by trying to do what we have heard today during this debate; in short, to arrive at at at least a partial equalisation of these rights a little earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We cannot support this amendment within the SMC Group because the Ministry has already explained that it cannot actually process this in a way within six months so that it can be enforced after six months, so the time limit remains for nine months. After all, why make it easy to support some amendment for some fundamental reasons, if then the law in reality cannot be implemented, as we all really want. This amendment, unfortunately, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on protection before discrimination under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! The Protection against Discrimination Act replaces and updates the 2004 Act in force on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. It is a general or roof law which provides for protection against discrimination because of any personal circumstances in different areas of social life. The fundamental purpose of this law is to ensure the appropriate organisational autonomy and independence of the action of the advocate or advocate of the principle of equality. At the same time, the law also updates existing legislation on protection against discrimination, identifying personal circumstances and areas of social life, identifying discriminatory acts and serious forms of discrimination, providing for sanctions in cases of infringements of the prohibition of discrimination, establishing powers and powers to promote and exercise equal treatment, identifying the inspection powers of the applicant and thus ensuring adequate protection against discrimination, taking into account the requirements of the European directives, determining the possibilities for non-governmental organisations and advocates to participate in judicial and administrative proceedings, which will contribute to greater efficiency in practice. In the debate on the draft law, there were warnings or indications that the law had arisen under pressure from the European Commission, not on the basis of the opinion of the Government or the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and the equal possibility that it was necessary. One of the important objectives of the law is to bring the Slovenian acquis in line with the EU acquis, since the Republic of Slovenia has received an official notice from the European Commission due to alleged irregularities in the transposition of the three directives into the Slovenian legal order, namely the establishment and operation of a body to promote equal treatment. If the Commission continued the proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Communities, we would be threatened with daily penalties. However, it should be recalled that the current government, after 12 years of searching for or coordinating more or less appropriate solutions, has managed to ensure sufficient political will and to decide that in the area of protection against discrimination, we need an independent and independent body which will carry out its core tasks with power of attorney, providing independent assistance to victims of discrimination through awareness, inspection and participation in judicial proceedings; conducting independent studies, research, analysis and monitoring; publishing independent reports and drawing up recommendations; and exchanging available information with relevant bodies of the European Union. So what does the law specifically bring in practice for the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia? The law clearly prohibits discrimination because of any personal circumstances. However, discrimination means any unjustified unequal treatment, distinction, exclusion, restriction or omission based on that personal circumstance and whose purpose or effect is less favourable to the treatment or position of a particular person. In Article 2, the law obliges State authorities, local authorities, authorities of the national self-government communities and holders of public powers and legal and natural persons to provide protection against discrimination or equal treatment of all persons in all areas of government decision-making, operation in legal traffic and in their other activities or behaviour in relation to third parties. What is important to stress is that, therefore, for the existence of discrimination, there must be a specific legal or contractual relationship between the discriminated person and the causer, e.g. worker-employer, service provider-party, doctor-patient, teacher-student, tenant-borrower, of course, everything also applies in female dictionary form. The law also establishes a procedure that protects persons from discrimination, such as proceedings with the defence counsel, proceedings in competent inspections and judicial proceedings. Dear Members and Members! I am convinced that with the Protection against Discrimination Act, I lay new and more solid foundations for eliminating all forms of discrimination and for shaping the practice of dealing with cases of discrimination at different levels in the counsel, inspection and court. In everyday life, we can all be victims of discrimination, so we must all strive for equal treatment regardless of sex, nationality, race or ethical origin, language, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity or sexual expression, social status, property status, education or any other circumstance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 21st session 5. 4. examined the proposal for a law on protection against discrimination submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The Council of State or the Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, as it has been said, has considered and supported the proposal of the law. The proposal for a law on protection against discrimination is prepared with a view to regulating the status of advocate of the principle of equality. It is a matter of harmonising the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Union in particular with regard to ensuring the proper autonomy of the body to promote equal treatment. The proposal also raises the clarity and understanding of non-discrimination legislation, added and updated individual provisions resulting from the shortcomings identified so far in the practice, development of law and policy in the field of non-discrimination. According to the proposal of the law, the advocate of the principle of equality shall be transformed into a single state authority, following the example of an information officer. He will have the position of State official appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the President of the State. Following the new regulation, the Ombudsman will have the power of inspection and, on the basis of the initiative, will be able to deal with cases of discrimination and issue regulatory decisions in the event of irregularities found. The proposed solution to the Ombudsman's regulation takes into account the requirements of the European Commission and the proposal of experts and experts in the field of non-discrimination and human rights. The draft law also takes into account the essential substantive comments made by the current advocate, who advocates the view that the complainant must be a state-owned body. The bill also amends the system of protection against discrimination with a view to creating conditions for effective legal protection and the emergence of legal and judicial practice in the field of non-discrimination. There was also a very long and interesting debate, including a constructive debate in which all invited guests participated, including Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, who, of course, also supports the bill's proposal. Mr Aleš Primc, representative of the Committee 2014 presented his position and the current advocate, Boštjan Vernik Šetinc, presented his position. The representative of YHD, the Association for the Theory and Culture of Handicap, Ms Elena Pečarič called for respect for and protection of the real needs of persons with disabilities, their rights, and the requirement to ensure, without compromise, not only formal but also effective, effective, need and adequate protection of persons with disabilities from exposure to discrimination. On the proposal itself, they also had comments from the Legislative and Legal Service, which we have taken into account with the amendments that we have drafted and adopted for this purpose. In line with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the necessary amendments and the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u108	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Protection against Discrimination Act is a new law replacing the applicable legal regime in this area. The proposed law significantly updates the applicable standards regarding protection against discrimination on the basis of any personal circumstances in different areas of social life. The fundamental purpose of the new legislation is to establish an organisationally independent body to ensure the independence of the advocate of the principle of equality. Work on a newly established independent body will therefore provide independent assistance to victims of discrimination, public awareness, potential victims of discrimination will inform what discrimination is, advice, independent studies, research and analysis and so on. The applicant will not be a criminal body, so he will not be able to issue the fines himself in the event of the infringements found, but will refer and refer the matter to the relevant inspection services responsible for each area. The law provides for a precise definition of the personal circumstances and areas of social life in which equal treatment of persons or the prohibition of discrimination is ensured, in particular in the field of work and employment, education and education, training, access to goods and services, social protection and social benefits, as set out in the Directives of the European Union. This law provides for the protection of each individual and individual from discrimination, irrespective of gender and all those matters which the Secretary of State has already stated, in the exercise of rights and obligations and in other legal relations in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil and other fields. And no, this law does not want to silence any critical civil society, as we have been told, nor the opposition. On the contrary, a respected opposition! We argue that the opposition and civil society are the most crucial to the proper functioning of the democratic system. For democracy and prosperity, the community does not have to function if there is no strong opposition and if there is no critical civil society, at least we think that way and we are convinced of social democracy. However, the firm position we advocate for the Social Democrats is that discrimination is unacceptable, like discrimination, of course, all those who discriminate must also be persecuted, because it is an phenomenon which is not acceptable in Western modern society based on European values, individual freedom and acceptance of differences. Social Democrats advocate respect for the differences and acceptance of the specificities of each of us, because it must become an integral part of learning and understanding of others for their actual acceptance and not just passive admission. We advocate and enforce the concept of acceptance and respect for diversity, which not only permits but strengthens positive differences in human character, in human culture, nationality, sex and other definitions. We understand tolerance as acceptance and respect for human uniqueness, while at the same time as the primary principle on which solidarity and partnership are based. In this recent debate, we have heard too many times that human rights are something that is irrelevant, that we should not devote ourselves to and that we have other problems too. The adoption of this law, which protects against discrimination and introduces measures to eliminate discrimination, is therefore very important for the Social Democrats. That is why, of course, this law will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u109	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the United Left have decided that we will only support the law if the amendments we propose are adopted. If the law is adopted in this form, the advocate of the principle of equality will have insufficient powers to effectively combat discrimination. If we were to conclude by case law, there is virtually no discrimination in Slovenia, which is already statistically impossible. Therefore, we simply do not have effective mechanisms for detecting and sanctioning discrimination. As a result of the widespread increase in intolerance, in particular to foreigners and same-sex people, the work of the public gave the impression that ordinary citizens do not need this law and that it is intended for someone else. This is, of course, far from the truth, as the following examples show. The general view is that one of the major problems of Slovenian society is the recruitment of associations and acquaintances. The fight against clientism is the password of all the last governments. Few people think that every time someone hires someone because of party affiliation or political belief, they discriminate against candidates who do not. In view of the fact that 500 candidates have applied for individual jobs in the public sector in recent years, it is clear that discrimination threatens more and more job seekers – purely ordinary citizens. In the area of employment, discrimination against women, especially women of childbearing potential, who are not employed by employers due to pregnancy, is certainly also a problem. This is also not a problem of a small group of marginals, but an obstacle that can be encountered by any woman in Slovenia. Of course, society is only as equal as the people who are on the side of this society for various reasons. In particular, these groups need an effective advocate of the principle of equality. In just these days, the media reported cases of deleted people living in Slovenia, and they still do not have a recognised status as a permanent resident, let alone compensation. This shows the persistence of discrimination, which has persisted for 24 years, even though it has been banned by both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. There are also unacceptable practices of segregation of the Roma population in the field of education and resettlement. In 2011 there was also a reasonable suspicion that one of the Ljubljana kindergartens had a national classification of children. So, however we turn around, there is virtually no one in Slovenia who would not be a potential victim of discrimination, but at the same time we have groups that are particularly affected. In addition to those already listed, I must mention the disabled at the end. In our parliamentary meals, a Member could not normally work on a wheelchair, except in other institutions, where disabled people, too often forget, come not only as customers, consumers, but also as workers, employees. The law was slightly improved in the second reading. According to our assessment, it is still inadequate in three points. First of all, there are still human resources problems. The Secretary of State made it clear that with the envisaged staffing structure, the advocate would not be able to control the area of adjustment for the disabled. Secondly, the problem of effective remedies remains. The fact that we do not have judicial practice is not a coincidence, but a consequence of the fact that individual actions are simply not successful, should therefore be given the right to bring an action in the public interest. And thirdly, there remains the problem of proof of purpose. The fact that we do not have judicial practice is also the result of an overly demanding evidentiary procedure. For the victim of discrimination, it does not matter whether he suffers harm because of pretentious behaviour or because of abandonment. As is the case with a worker who cannot retire, whether the employer has not paid contributions knowingly or unconsciously. The funding is entirely in the hands of the Government, we have tabled amendments to the law to the other elements. Without these additions, we won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u111	The text is by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, for which Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u112	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we oppose the introduction of a new Ombudsman institution against discrimination. The new office will represent a new cost for the state budget. The proposer foresees 200 000 euros a year for the operation of this institution, which is a lot of money. How much they could grant state scholarships to students who did not and will not receive them! It is problematic, as we have pointed out at the parent board meeting, to save the cost of pooling two public funds: the guarantee of maintenance and disability and the development of staff and scholarships spent on this new Ombudsman body against discrimination. In early 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on discrimination against Christians in Europe, which highlighted the problem of Christians being discriminated against in the workplace and in the public on the grounds of their beliefs. Representatives of the Slovenian National Assembly at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe did not even vote on this resolution at that time. So much for Slovenian representatives of the National Assembly in the Council of Europe. So much for the worry of the ruling coalition on protection against discrimination. Of course, with the Committee's consideration of Christian Democrats, we have convinced ourselves that this law is not intended to address this issue at all, but rather the other way around. The law contains elements that will help the present left government to silence and discipline those who disagree with its ideology, and this is primarily Christian. This is proof that the coalition is two-faced in regulating this area, even because the coalition members at the parent committee meeting have peacefully rejected all our amendments to the law that have gone towards improving and normalising solutions. Among other things, you refused a completely simple amendment to be the headquarters of the Maribor office. Isn't this discrimination against the second largest city in Slovenia? We also proposed not to allow exceptions to discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation, religion and other personal circumstances. Unfortunately, this proposal has also not been acceptable to you and you have left a loose judgement when everyone is free to judge what is and what is not discrimination. We have also proposed a reduction of extremely high penalties, and you have also rejected that. Again, we have tabled an amendment to the National Assembly, which deletes the circumstances of sexual identity and sexual expression, since the applicant has not even explained what these two concepts mean. They should also be circumstances that are not permanent and on the basis of which they could assess the existence of discrimination. It is also important that the coalition MPs have not voted on the proposal for a public presentation of opinions that could give a broader view and response to civil society and politics on a proposal for a law. What are you afraid of? That the public will be informed of your intentions? Christian Democrats are proposing that the area of protection against discrimination be regulated by assigning one or two additional employees and additional powers to the existing Ombudsman. In our view, this body has a specific purpose, similar to that of the KPK, to discipline differently-minded citizens. Also financially, with incredibly high penalties. New Slovenia has proposed several amendments to normalise the law, allow for freedom of speech and conscience. We believed that the coalition had a good intention in dialogue to regulate the area, so that it would really protect the weaker. Unfortunately, though, it is really an ideological attack on other thinking citizens. Members of New Slovenia will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u113	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group we support the adoption of the proposal for a law on protection against discrimination, because we believe that it definitely updates and to a certain extent complements the marriage solution so far. With regard to the substantive upgrade of the law on protection against discrimination, I should stress that, in our view, the proposal could also address some issues that have proved questionable in a more concrete and consistent way. We understand the preparation of the bill as a matter of law, with which we align the Slovenian legal order with the European Union's legislation. We certainly think that the system of protection against discrimination itself is changing in order to create conditions for effective legal protection and to develop legal and judicial practice in the field of non-discrimination. It seems important to us that the draft law regulates the status of an advocate of the principle of equality as a single body to promote equal treatment. In principle, we also agree with the solutions that the status of counsel is regulated in a comparable manner to the regulation of the status of the information officer. In this regard, we had some dilemmas, but most of them were explained in the debate. Following the new regulation, the Ombudsman will have inspection powers and will also be able to issue regulatory decisions in the event of irregularities found, and we therefore expect the new independent institution to take a step further in the area of discrimination against representatives of national communities and other vulnerable groups, which are unfortunately still very exposed to such abuses. We have also been actively involved in the debate on the adoption of the bill by our parliamentary group, as we have also discussed the bill at the Commission's meeting for National Communities. We are pleased to note that our proposals were taken into account in the second reading. Article 1 of the text is thus supplemented by a proposal for a law providing for the protection of each individual and individual against discrimination in relation to the language, which was lacking in the original version of the proposal. It is clear that both the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international legal instruments on the protection of human rights and freedoms and on the protection of national minorities clearly provide for the provision of human rights and freedoms in addition to national or ethnic origin. Accordingly, there can be no doubt that any discrimination based on the nationality of the national minority must be prohibited, the use of language or ethnic origin. In this regard, we also stress the correct orientation of the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the law, which, as discrimination, also prohibits the public justification of neglect or contempt of persons or groups of persons because of the circumstances set out in Article 1 of the bill. However, our proposal, which referred to the addition of operators to promote equal treatment, was also accepted. On the basis of the proposed law, in addition to national authorities, local communities and holders of public powers, self-government national communities will also create conditions for equal treatment of all persons within their respective competences. We believe that this supplement is very important and can also mean added value both in raising citizens' awareness and in working with the advocate of the principle of equality. We will support the bill in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u115	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The representative of the Group of Minority Communities certainly knows what discrimination is and what it is to be a victim of discrimination. I hope he does not know on his particular case, but I am certainly pleased that the position of this representative of both representatives of minority communities is positive and that they have stressed that this law is intended for victims of discrimination and not for any ideological fight against anyone. Today we are actually discussing two important laws that warn us that we are not all the same in society despite the birth of the right to equality in practice. The first was the previous partnership law, and the second was the law, the law on protection against discrimination. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees us equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, prohibits discrimination in the provision, exercise and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms regardless of any personal circumstances. It is a personal circumstance that we do not choose and cannot change ourselves, so it is also so important that this is not the basis and must not be the basis for discrimination. The legal order must in principle be immune to personal circumstances and the laws must apply equally to all. This right, which contains a constitutional prohibition of arbitrary discrimination, is also a general legal principle, without which it is difficult to imagine the existence of any democratic legal order. The American Declaration of Independence of 1776 already stipulated that all people were created as equal, and the French Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights declared a good decade later that people were born and living in freedom and equal rights and that social differences could be based only on the general interest. Today, the principle of legal equality has become one of fundamental constitutional principles, and so it is also with our constitution. The proposal for a law on protection against discrimination is an important step which, on the basis of European and national practice, will allow the change of the system of protection against discrimination with a view to creating conditions for effective legal protection and the emergence of legal and judicial practice in the field of non-discrimination. We have repeatedly mentioned that in our case law in the field of discrimination is almost non-existent; and we agree with this – a flaw and this law, we expect, will contribute precisely to the creation of this legal practice, the case law in particular, and in this case we will also be able to call for interpretation of important legal concepts and standards, which are also regulated by this law and by some others. The area of discrimination is very wide and diverse and the problem is not to report discrimination. Victims of discrimination bear a heavy burden and it is right to provide legal protection against discrimination for all. The purpose of the law is, this is important to note, not mainly the prosecution or sanctioning of offenders, but awareness and assistance in preventing and eliminating discrimination. My predecessors have said what are the essential changes brought by the law, namely, the most important, the status of advocate of the principle of equality, which will be more in line with the acquis of the European Union. Slovenia is a member of the European Union and, as I have repeatedly pointed out, it must, of course, respect the acquis of the European Union and comply consistently with the Directives - Regulations in one way or another - of the European Union and bring them into its legal order. It is important to stress that the law on protection against discrimination essentially replaces the existing law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. Some definitions of discrimination are being complemented by something essential new, essentially revolutionary, and it is also important that this body now advocates the principle of equality independently and some important changes, but the law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment already exists and we replace it. If we do not adopt this law, we will act contrary to the legal order of the European Union and we will pay much more than we will pay for this advocate to act and to implement this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u117	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. In opening, I must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposal for a law on protection against discrimination, because we are convinced that this is another attempt by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition to silence the opposition and civil society, which disagrees with the decisions and solutions of the Government and the coalition, which go primarily to the detriment of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Although the purpose of the law seems to be good to me, since we are all committed to eliminating discrimination in all areas, a more detailed analysis shows that it is primarily intended to silence critical civil society. The law introduces broad definitions of discrimination which cannot be interpreted clearly and their application depends primarily on the Ombudsman's arbitrariness against discrimination established by this law. In addition, the law imposes a reverse burden of proof, which means that the alleged offender will have to prove that he has not done anything without having to be proved by the guardian that he has acted in a discriminatory manner. A legal remedy will not be possible against the Ombudsman’s decisions on a particular case, although it will be possible for the Ombudsman’s views and statements to be publicly cut down on the honour and good name of anyone. Nor will we support the proposal for that law because the Government, as a proposal, refers to European directives that would require the State to establish a stand-alone body to prevent discrimination, which is not true, since such an authority can also operate within different agencies. We will not support this bill either because the government and the coalition are saying that this body will be independent. I wonder – what if it is called the National Assembly, which is a political body? It is quite clear that the body will be completely political. And if we monitor the current staffing of the coalition and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it can be quite clear to us what independence of the body we can expect. Nor will we support the law because it is established as a self-employed body with new employment in the country and public administration, despite the fact that in the country we are aware that this sector of the country is highly exaggerated and that public administration in our society is significantly too rich and very poorly effective. The establishment of a guardian under this law is absolutely unnecessary, since these powers of the Ombudsman could be conferred on the Ombudsman. The resources allocated by the State under this Act to the functioning of this autonomous body are: material costs, office materials of EUR 3 000 500, operating costs of EUR 5 000, operating costs of EUR 10 000, second material costs of EUR 6 000 500, research, studies, analyses – the custom of this government – EUR 25 000, awareness and information of EUR 20 000, paid by the initial employee or advocate of EUR 50 000, Deputy/Representative of EUR 38 000, Senior Advisor of EUR 24 000, Adviser/Alder of EUR 18 000, together at the annual level of EUR 200 000. Despite the fact that we have more than a third of citizens and citizens living below the poverty line in our society, that we have more than 120 thousand unemployed, over 4 thousand homeless, 160 thousand recipients of the Red Cross, 54 thousand recipients of social assistance, 206 thousand pensioners on the poverty line, 48 thousand recipients of social assistance, over 30 billion state debt, close to a billion and a half years of interest to be paid by the State for the loans paid annually and so on, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition made up of SD, SMC and DeSUS parties are allowing additional burdens on the state budget or Slovenian taxpayers. For all these reasons, we certainly do not have to support or support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u119	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In opening, let me say that the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law on protection against discrimination. The area of equal treatment is very sensitive and at the same time a complex area which has so far been somewhat under-recognizable, in some ways not sufficiently protected, and sometimes too much has been said about it, and too many times has been taken into account in practice. With the law that we have now begun to discuss and will be discussed, and we have already discussed it in a very long debate and discussion on the working body, we are getting much more than we have today or as we have had so far. The law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment according to its content follows a more modern understanding of the policy of regulating the problem of discrimination. In the first place, it is certainly the autonomy of the body that ensures that our citizens and our citizens in all areas of social life can feel and must feel protected from all forms of discrimination. In this part, our legislation is aligned with the legal order of the European Union, because according to the new advocate of the principle of equality, it will be a completely independent state official who will no longer work under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, but on his own. It will be guaranteed independence in both its status form and its financial autonomy. The most important thing is functional independence in its operation for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. This item also includes the powers of the authority arising from the Directive of the European Union. It is a broad range of options for action, such as providing independent assistance to victims of discrimination, essential, essential to us, essential importance, awareness, information, public information in the potential dangers of all forms of discriminatory behaviour and, last but not least, assistance to victims in specific cases. In order to continue the process of improving the quality of life, it is certainly important that independent studies, research and analysis be carried out in relation to discrimination, the publication of independent reports and the making of recommendations on how to address any identified shortcomings both in legislation and in particular cases of unequal treatment. In the second set of improvements to the existing regime, the new law improves individual solutions and definitions. The clearer and more precise legal formulation of prohibited practices will have a positive impact on more effective judicial protection in cases of violations of the principle of equality and thus on a higher level of protection of human rights and freedoms. In our parliamentary group, we especially believe that those groups that are more vulnerable to discrimination can be more protected, especially older ones, people with disabilities, those who are slightly less educated, not least those who do not come from the centre of the country. In the Desus Group, we see this law as an added value or, if you want, an upgrade of the current rules that systematically or sectorally touch the same treatment of all regardless of the type of circumstances which expose someone in relation to most others as different. If we want not only to plague but to completely eliminate all forms of discrimination, support for this law is the only right way. However, laws and this law are not the only mechanisms and only mechanisms, the only means of eliminating discrimination, the unequal treatment of people. If we sincerely want equal coexistence between all people regardless of the differences that exist between us, we will have to make a mental leap in the heads of many of us. As it is said, the law is not the only tool, but it is a good tool, a good way to go in the right direction, so we will support it in the DeSUS Group with the desire to be properly implemented and used daily in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u121	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 May. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present! New Slovenia has already tabled several amendments, as I said in its position, and we have taken this matter seriously, responsible, but this bill, which we have today on the table, has been drafted to the best extent possible. Unfortunately, however, not all our amendments have been tabled, so today we have tabled an amendment to Article 1, which deletes the word "sex" and "sex identity". I can say that with the explanation given by the applicant, somehow still, I think we are spinning in the field of gender theory and related NGOs and government organisations, because its explanation was based, of course, on non-governmental organisations and on a side which is aimed primarily at gender theory. But I now have another question for the proposer here today, I probably expect an answer from the Secretary of State: How will it be decided whether discrimination is based on sexual identity and expression? How? Because according to the definition of Legebitre, the sexual expression changes. The sexual expression is changing. The gender term should mean, by definition, changing feelings, how will a sexual expression determine whether the matter has been discriminatory? [[…]] I think it's a matter of being hard to judge when we're talking about a sexual expression of sexual identity. [[…]] And once again, what we have pointed out in our position is that you will take all things into your own hands with this law and judge according to what suits you. And that's the greatest fear. Fear for all citizens and fear for the preservation of some democracy, because laws must be clear. But not based on some sexual expression and sexual identity, which according to the definition read by the Secretary of State and also found on Legebitre's website, means changing feelings, identity. You're something, you're something tomorrow, you're something this morning, you're something this afternoon. On what grounds? What will be the key indicators on which you will or will be judged to have been discriminated against? We are talking about discrimination here, and I also ask that all those representatives sitting in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe today tell me why they did not vote on the Council of Europe Resolution on discrimination against Christians proposed in 2015 on discrimination against European Christians. This is not the first resolution not supported by Slovenian representatives of the people in the Council of Europe, and I think it is also necessary to have answers from our representatives in this area. However, they are representatives of the Slovenian National Assembly and of course Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u123	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that the Protection against Discrimination Act itself, if we adopt it when we adopt it, represents an important acquisition. I do not understand what is the reason for fear, given that we already have the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment, which also knows the Advocate of the principle of equality, otherwise it is within the Ministry of Family Affairs, but it exists. And all these institutes that you're saying are undefined and I don't know how it's going to be now with this law, that it's going to be a fight against, you said yourself, political opponents or whatever you imagine, already exist: discrimination is already indirect, direct discrimination, harassment, advocate. This law only improves definitions, and Directives are more consistently transposed into our legal order. This law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment has existed since 2004. He was changed once. I don't know if there was any fear back then that this would be some kind of tool to fight against political opponents? This law is essentially intended to protect victims of discrimination. And that's all he wants to achieve with this law. I remember when I also studied him myself when I was working in a college with the protection of human rights, and at that time we found that this should be changed, we have not yet endured this, especially this institution of the advocate of the principle of equality, that it is not independent enough. And now I am very glad that I have the opportunity here to participate in this legislative process to deal with this. And the European Commission has made it clear to us what we need to complement. Civil society also participated in the process of adopting this law, and we had the opportunity to hear from their representatives on the Committee on Social Affairs, Labour and so on. And I think that this fear is simply unnecessary, even because these things already exist, there is a law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. Above all, I think it is important that the Advocate of the principle of equality, please use the term Advocate of the principle of equality, as it interferes with the Ombudsman. The content is important, but it is the Advocate of the principle of equality and the Advocate of the principle of equality is the one who can determine whether discrimination has occurred if it is alleged to have been committed by individuals and legal persons and also by state authorities. The Ombudsman, however, can only determine whether the violation of human rights has been committed by a state authority, the State. And the essential observation of the European Commission, which is overseeing the implementation of the European directives, is that the material being transferred was that this body, our advocate of the principle of equality, is in fact not independent. And this claim that the Commission did not give, because it did not give precise instructions, and the directives do not specifically state that it must be a self-sustaining body, but that the directive brings the State itself into its internal legal system and transposes it depending on its legal system. So if we have a body that's in the body, an agency, anything, in our legal order, and it's bound to follow instructions, say, a minister or a chairman of an organ, then it's not independent. And with us, no other body would meet this criterion and repeat the exercise through the European Commission, which would tell us that this body is not independent, which would be true. That he is loved by the National Assembly — yes, but what does the National Assembly do with the Ombudsman? She loves him, too. What is this political body now? I don't know where that came from. I have personally advocated the independence of this body. It is comparable, for example, to the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, and I do not know what even greater independence from politics could be guaranteed to him than that he was favoured by the National Assembly. I don't know. Then you tell me what you'd suggest. If we do not comply with the European directives in their spirit, their essence, as requested by the European Commission and has already, as has been said, reminded us and then followed the procedure before the European Union court, would be paid. We'd pay pens. We'd pay a lot more. I'm asking for peace so I can speak. So we would have paid the compensation and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u125	Quiet back there!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u126	would not give money to students, not to poor people, not to anyone, but to the European Union. [[…]] Here I absolutely believe that this is a necessary condition that we will have to meet sooner or later in order to ensure the actual independence of the advocate of the principle of equality. Next. The new law complements material provisions, i.e. the content of the prohibition of discrimination. The Committee on Social Affairs has had a contentious sexual harassment, which will now be regulated in a new manner. This same text, the same text, is on the prohibition of sexual harassment in the Labour Relations Act 1, adopted in 2014. No one had a problem with that. I don't know. And now it is only transferred to a more general level to this law on protection against discrimination. Article 7 of this Labour Relations Act states: “Sexual harassment is any form of unwanted verbal, non-verbal or physical behaviour...” and to avoid repeating, the same article is the same, the same text. And I have to say, this was endlessly funny on the committee for, I mean, some members of the committee, especially from SDS, what this sexual harassment is now, because it is written in the explanation of the law that it would be “hot views”. Of course, the content of each article is that the case law and here it is important, as I have already said in my position, that we come to the case-law, but to get to it, we must have even qualified people who will initiate or assist them to initiate proceedings, because the judicial procedure is a demanding procedure. And we have a case law. Here I hold in the hands of three decisions of Slovenian courts dealing with sexual harassment. The Supreme Labour and Social Court, the 2011 judgment, mentions that the court concluded that the defendant was the victim of sexual harassment in the workplace by the first defendant, in the way that “the latter often touched her, hugged her and spoke slanderous words to her, invited her out and to the sea and once kissed her”. That's not funny. These are the living situations of harassment identified by the court in a particular proceeding. Next. We still have our verdicts. So there was a certain case law. Again, in 2011, we have a judgment, the Labour Court, because this is based on the Labour Relations Act and the article I have already mentioned, the court found that “there has been an act that the defendant was received at a time of dispute by the superior employee of the act to approach her, to show her half and to expect her consent to sexual relations”. Court practice. Nothing funny. The specific life situation in which harassment occurs and has victims of discrimination, harassment is a form of discrimination, has a legal remedy against this discrimination. I won't mention it anymore, but there is a case law here. As far as the explanation of the bill is concerned, this explanation, which is part of the proposal for a law, may be taken into account when the court decides on it, is not the clear content of a certain article, the court may use this explanation of the law to determine what the legislator intended, but absolutely for that reason, if the dispute arises, it is not bound by it, it is bound by the law, the constitution, the laws and so on. The applicant has taken over certain items which he may have found in court practice. So it's about unwanted behavior. I wonder, dear colleagues, now there are no colleagues here who have laughed so much at this explanation of sexual harassment – Would you like to win, even if it were harassment? Of course not. Would that be acceptable? Of course it's not acceptable. They laughed on the Social Committee. I didn't say it was you. No, of course it's not acceptable harassment. And this article in the Prevention of Discrimination Act provided for an arrangement for unacceptable, non-acceptable harassment. The case law has already developed in this area and will develop and the court will determine whether or not it was harassment in a particular case. Of course, I am pleased that we are against unwanted sexual harassment, which has been under way since 2014. If we are discussing a specific case of abusive speech, which is a harassment, we also have an example in the National Assembly. And this case is repeated, it's repeated several times. I'm sorry that a colleague who was walking here, but he didn't sit down, but he also mentions me when I'm not here, and on committees where I'm not a member. Member Beznik is on 16. 2. On the Committee on Home Affairs, I said that I retweeted the statement "We know who they are and what they are, they're just multiplying like rats and allowing themselves more and more." And then he gave his assessment, quote: "Then the critical public in Slovenia, the Slovenian people," he meant to me, he dedicated this statement to me," which gave you an education which gave you the opportunity of a doctorate who gave you the opportunity to become an MP in this country who showed his tolerance for another nationality, to others, you name them and agree that they are rats." That's what Ambassador Breznik told me. And then one more time. 4. 2016, the Committee on Culture said, he mentioned to me, "This is about the former judge, Dr. Science, and the worst part is that she condemns people, critics of power, those who have accepted her as a genocide fugitive in Srebrenica, who could have made a university in this country that she has doctored in this country and in this country could have become a judge." The same thing happened again 13. 4. to the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. Member Breznik first told me that I said something I didn't say. That tweet wasn't mine, I retweeted it and barked, even though I agree with a certain person's statement that certain people multiply like rats, I'm not saying they're rats, it's a comparison, I could say, I don't know that there's as many as the Russians if it were in context. I did not agree with the statement that would be directed against anyone and based on his ethnic background, I did not mention any nationality, I mentioned only someone who expressed his position on Twitter and that it was comparatively multiplied as a rat and not that I would now mention that he was of some origin, but I spoke of a certain involvement and it was an anonymous one, after most anonymous attacks on Twitter and it was personal insults and those insults were primarily directed at my ethnic origin. So, I did not demean anyone personally, but at least the Slovenian people and I did not mention, no Slovenian people or SDS were mentioned in that tweet. Apparently, Member Breznik chose a method of repeating that the lie repeats so many times until it becomes the truth. But it's not true, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Messenger Beznik obviously knows who wrote those tweets that attacked me and in which I was mostly insulted by anonymous writers. He probably concludes that it was my political opponents or even the SDS, I don't know. That tweet did not mention who multiplied as something. So I didn't read anyone anything based on ethnic origin. Why did I repaint that tweet? How did it start? It started with a tweet that showed me as a woman in a burka – it was an act, it was a harassment; I am describing a concrete case that is happening constantly in the National Assembly – that tweet started like this and then I responded to it by presenting me as a Muslim dressed in burka, and that I would return as such to the court. It was alluded to my ethnicity and to my being a woman. So if this isn't harassment, please. All in all, it's important that it all started out as an insult to me personally. Member Breznik has no right to present my statement to me in this context and then mentions my ethnic background that I am not from Slovenia, that I am not Slovenian, and that I must be grateful that someone has given me something. We were elected by Slovenian citizens, ethnic origin when it comes to elections, is only important when it comes to the election of representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national minorities. In short, you are trying to – yes, but now you have come – publicly urge me to attack the Slovenian nation, which is obviously a false faction, and you are personally attacking me, Ambassador Breznik, because of my ethnic background. For this reason, obviously, you should not dare to be critical of some political option at all, and you should not express your position on this. Therefore, with such statements, Member Breznik, you mock the notion of discrimination and tolerance and insult me as a person on the basis of my personal circumstances, my ethnicity. Your statements are humiliating and insult my dignity publicly at a meeting of the working body of the National Assembly. Why am I bringing this up? Since this means harassment in accordance with Article 5 of the Law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. What does this Article 5 say? “Desperation is an unwanted conduct based on any personal circumstance that creates a frightening, hateful, humiliating, shameful or offensive environment for a person and offends his dignity.” So, you think I should feel bad and less valuable because I just came from Bosnia. I demand that you stop this, Member Breznik, or together we will find out what harassment is after this Act on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. You can also look at the Bond Code, what is this requirement to stop violations of personal rights, you can look at the Penal Code and here, yes, of course there is immunity of a Member, but the National Assembly can also take it away. There's something else I'd like to say. If that's so, because I've been reviving something, then everyone you've been reviving, say, you take John Janša or some other tweets that may have been offensive, you've committed a crime. If this is claimed, I do not know, this is confirmed by Member Breznik. If, Member Breznik, you think it is in my case, even because I have not declared it, but I have only reprimanded and barked, if you think it was a crime, then choose, announce, file a criminal complaint, you are also obliged to give it and it will be determined whether, before the prosecution, it was an hate speech. Because if I'm a co-conspirator, if I've been retweeting or barking, then we'll see what legal practice will be like, and if it even has the elements of an act of hate speech that I've retweeted, the court will find out. And I don't allow you to repeat the same thing over and over again here, that I committed an act of hate speech with that reptile. No, no, no. That's not true. And you won't achieve that by repeating it. But there are other legal alternatives that I can use, and if you don't stop doing that, I will use them. I gave you the legal basis for what was done with these statements. Slovenia is a country for all citizens and citizens, regardless of nationality and other personal circumstances, and this law governs this. It is also the country of all inhabitants of Slovenia while they live here. For example, the rights of those who are from other countries of the European Union and who have their place of residence here can, say, participate in local elections. So it is not all for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I stand by myself for living here without discrimination. The extreme forms of discrimination are segregation, genocide, fascism and so on. The Protection against Discrimination Act is one of the guardians that such terrible forms of discrimination would not occur at all. However, we must begin with ourselves to accept and respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. We in the National Assembly can improve it by adopting legislation to prevent all forms of discrimination. We also believe that we are obliged as Members to avoid hostile speech regardless of our parliamentary immunity. We are also obliged as the National Assembly to adopt such legislation that will prevent and eliminate all forms of discrimination. This law is meant to do so, so I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u127	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! First, I should say to Mr President that I think we should warn my colleague clearly about what we are discussing today and that what she should have said to Mr Breznik could be said at the point of the agenda when we were talking about the enemy speech. So I would ask you, given that you are always consistently warning us opposition Members that we come from the agenda item, that you are doing the same in the case of your colleague, who comes from the largest government party. Now, here's the other thing. I listened very carefully to the views of the parliamentary groups, in particular the coalition parliamentary groups, and all those who represented the views said that this was an extremely important law. Which, of course, I personally agree with. To talk about discrimination or the fact that we know different forms of discrimination and that as much as possible must be done, particularly in raising awareness that different forms of discrimination do not occur, therefore, the adoption of such legislation is of course important. However, we need to know how we deal with certain subjects. And in our view, the Ministry's approach at this point is wrong. And I'll explain why. Even earlier, given the fact that this law was said to be important, why there is no minister for work with us today in such an important marriage, the family, in order to clarify the clear positions. I know that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the replacement of the Secretary of State is the same, but I believe that the one who is formally headed by the Ministry and is responsible for the solutions that he brings to this National Assembly that he should be here today. But Minister of Labour, there's no family. Since colleague Jasna Murgel spoke very widely, even though we are talking about an amendment, a concrete one proposed by Nova Slovenije, I will also dare to look a little more broadly at the law we have before us. In our view, some things are misdirected, in the wrong direction, especially when we are talking about an advocate of the principle of equality. However, there are some cases which are not defined at all in the law relating to the protection of discrimination. It is said that actual discrimination is not answered in any way within the articles of the law and I will later tell you which part of me personally disturbs me. For a very long time, we have been alerting and working on whether an advocate of the principle of equality should become an independent body, such as the Ombudsman or the Information Officer. I personally believe that, given the financial situation that we have in this country, which is not pink, and also the social situation of individuals, when we have more than or about 300,000 people below the poverty line, it seems extremely irresponsible to form a new body at this time, which will require about 200 000 euros a year. This seems irresponsible and unacceptable to me personally. Not because it would be an irrelevant topic, but because these discrimination-related issues could be resolved within the Office of the Ombudsman. And several times this is where the debate went. I must say that, even as President of the Commission on Human Rights in recent years, I have discussed several times on various occasions how the status of the advocate of the principle of equality would be most appropriate, even from a financial point of view, particularly in the situation, as I have already mentioned, in which we are. And it is our opinion that we should resolve this within the Office of the Ombudsman. Why? Because this field of guardians already covers and, in addition to everything else, has a proper administration to handle these matters without problems or problems. Even in the annual reports of the Ombudsman, there is a constant emphasis on the problem of discrimination, and we do not need another one in this, or even in this particular situation, when the financial situation is such as to create a new status authority, independent. How independent it is, it is questionable how it is put, because the Ombudsman is also questionable politically, when, of course, on the proposal of the President of the State, we then confirm it in the National Assembly. It is also supposed to happen to an advocate of the principle of equality. He was to be proposed by the President of the State and then confirmed by the National Assembly. In short, the Commission or the Ombudsman has sufficient capacity to cover this area and has all the administration available, has four Deputy Human Rights Ombudsmans. Everyone's covering their own areas. One of them is the area of discrimination. And we really don't see any reason for such authorities to be duplicating each other in any way. When we talk about this law and the advocate of equality, we should also know that, despite the speaking of all the powers he has, the advocate of the principle of equality will not have criminal powers. What does that mean? This means today that, while he may be able to point out irregularities, he will then inform the competent inspection services, but again they will be those who will judge whether something is justified to act as an offence or not, whether or not it will go into criminal proceedings. The advocate of the principle of equality should also become an independent body because we are advised by various European institutions, the European Commission. And you, in the coalition, whistle at a lot of things that come from Europe. You're very strict here. Probably because you like to set up additional agencies and some additional services, but even if they cost you, instead of doing some good work, with some really good organization within the already known status structures and offices, these issues that you are solving today with the law on protection from discrimination. Personally, however, it seems very important for us to be responsible for these issues, and ultimately for the money of citizens and citizens. That is to say, you are introducing this today, as you say, also because Europe is ordering you to do so. But Europe also says that because fascism was mentioned earlier, Europe also says, or the European Parliament, that it is necessary to condemn all three totalitarianisms, which you like to forget, not only Fascism and Nazism, but communism as well, but you are quick to do so. We have tabled a resolution of the European Parliament on European consciousness and totalitarianism several times in the National Assembly, but you are not able to confirm it, even though your fellow Members at the European level have confirmed it, even those coming from the left. This resolution has been endorsed. And the President of Parliament likes to refer to it more than once. The president of the government too, when it suits him and when it suits him. But when it comes to action and say, it is true, it is necessary to condemn all three totalitarianisms, because they deeply affected the Slovenian nation and also Europe, of course, but now we are talking about the Slovenian socio-political space, and nothing happens, but you are being misled. You're changing. Even when we talk about what needs to be done for a five - year - old burial, you are also deluding yourself. You're saying what you've done, but when we're talking about these issues on the Human Rights Commission, we have conclusions that make us all commit to finally burying our dead and you're against it. This happened on Friday at the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. You voted against this – because now my colleague from SMC is sneezing me, you voted against it – to investigate the actions committed after World War II during World War II on the war against the war of the war. You voted against such a decision. Now I'd like to explain something else about the law itself. This is a request for reasonable adjustment. A number of individuals have written to me on the question that they are concerned to note that the proposal for a law on protection from discrimination does not contain a definition of a requirement for reasonable adaptation. I understand now that Mr. Han doesn't care, I understand that because his client [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u129	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u130	Yes, I'd like to ask you. I would ask you, Mr. Han, to ensure [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u131	Quiet, everybody. We're here to discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President, for warning him. [[advertising from the hall]] I would ask you, Mr President, to tell Mr Han that such behaviour is entirely inappropriate on his part. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u133	Please stop. This is my colleague Irgle speaking, she has a word, I have not given a word to anyone else in this House, so please, colleague Han, do not interrupt. Irgle's colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Therefore, I am referring to the fact that the law on protection against discrimination does not also contain the definition of a requirement for reasonable adjustment, although this is one of the fundamental elements of the protection of persons with disabilities against discrimination, at least rejecting such a requirement constitutes one of the forms of discrimination. I think that the other Members have also received a similar record, but it seems to me that no one has pointed out these very important things, which, by the way, the advocate of the principle of equality, which has not yet been set up as an independent body, but the current situation, as they say in the principle of the Advocate, is gravely unconstitutional, because the demand for reasonable adjustment is not properly and sufficiently regulated because it does not protect all persons who should. This is also pointed out by disabled organizations. What does that mean? This means that I will be more specific about what this discrimination is about; it is about discrimination against a particular group of people, in which case it is a group of blind people. In the domestic legal order, for example, they point to the Constitutional Court’s judgment requiring the right to use a brace, i.e. Braille, in a court of law. But that's not even possible today. On these issues, however, the Ministry is working on it and it is an important issue. The Ombudsman also draws attention to this in his annual reports. They also point out in the disability organisations that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of April 2014 on the exercise of electoral rights due to the physical inaccessibility of voters is not respected. We still don't have that. In our opinion, this law would require much more consideration, but we should consider what is also responsible at some point. The key objective of the law is this change that advocates of the principle of equality are positioned as an independent body, now, if it is independent, another issue, but as an independent body. However, we continue to insist that the most appropriate form would be under the auspices of the Ombudsman, because even when we look at the state's financial situation, the Ombudsman covers the area of discrimination in one way or another, and therefore has four deputies. I would ask you to reconsider these questions and make a responsible and wise decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u135	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I will be very brief because I have been a trifle more extensive, in the very presentation of the position of the Desus Group. The law before us is a law of added value. As I said, this is not the only way to eliminate, perhaps we all have a position and a sincere desire to completely eliminate all forms of discrimination. Some of us can feel them between us. I must say that formerly colleague Murgel did have one very, and I have listened to her from the beginning to the end, a very emotional performance and I can only regret that they are happening to her or that she understands some writing in this way. Perhaps, though, these electronic media are not the best thing, perhaps a better old traditional method would be – to sit down for coffee to discuss if we have different views, different concepts of certain things. I wish that — now, whether it's gross naivety or planning, if you want — you wouldn't need such and similar laws at all. Then we would be on the right track to be truly tolerant that we do not have the desire of anyone from such or otherwise to eliminate him from life, to discriminate, to harm him and so on. You know, many of us in the National Assembly can also feel discriminated against because we don't all come from the center of the country and we have or have had or will have a much more difficult condition that we force some thing to survive or whatever. Plus, at the previous point, we talked about discrimination or potential discrimination based on sexual orientation; about religion, we may not have talked enough about religion and so on. I support and will always support such laws that will focus, for their purpose, on their sincere desire to eliminate what is negative. This law aims to eliminate what is negative for its main purpose of eliminating all forms, all forms, not to list them now, because I will certainly forget any discrimination, unequal treatment of individuals and individuals. Maybe that's the case – based in Maribor. Great, I wish it was the seat of everything in Maribor. I'm serious. And, of course, somehow opportunistic on the committee itself, of course, I couldn't, I didn't want to, and I would never vote against such a decision, although, since colleague Dimičeva, who is a very fair girl, was already on the committee with a smile when she proposed such an amendment. In fact, I do not see any added value here, if the Advocate had the principle of equality in Maribor, I really do not see. However, I will continue my efforts to bring another institution to Maribor, not least some ministry, but eventually some stronger economic society, even though it is harder to intervene. You know, we're halfway there somewhere to transfer the holding of Slovenian power plants as a seat in Maribor. I repeat here once again, I apologize for the short discussion, this is not about interfering with the HSE political decisions, but just a seat, saving some 100,000 euros on an annual basis. Now in this particular law, this seat in Maribor transfer to those four almonds and thus make an added value for Maribor See, this is not it. Better give meaning to Maribor and do not discriminate in other ways. 200 000 euros will cost this whole thing. This is not a trifle, of course, but because, in some ways, the Ministry of Labour is already dealing with quite a few people, we have, after all, an advocate who is already working at the Ministry itself, but some European Union regals are talking about being independent. And if he's more independent, if he's outside the Ministry, okay, okay, okay, I'll buy it, because if I don't buy it, but I will have to, I mean I don't talk like Uroš Prikl, if we don't buy it, the plural, the first person of the crowd, we're just going to have to pay a fine, because we don't guarantee in some way such independence, the independence of the defender's institution, as Europe expects, and which, finally, is everything, now I don't know how Finland has been assured by virtually all countries. Let's just do this. There are also some other independent institutions: the Ombudsman, if we go to the financial aspect of the Court of Auditors, including the State Audit Commission, and I don't know, there is a whole bunch of one institution, but there is one more. If this is a condition to take a step forward to give equal treatment added value to eliminate discrimination. It was a question of independence if it was called the National Assembly. I really don't know if he'll be more independent if the street calls him, whether he's more independent if the government calls him, or whether he's more independent if SDH calls him. I think it's the right way to call it the National Assembly. After all, representatives of the Court of Auditors are appointed by the National Assembly, the Ombudsman appoints the National Assembly, a whole bunch of different individuals who are important for the establishment of this country, we appoint in the National Assembly. I think so. In fact, we could say that with someone, and I'm not going to discuss here what kind of majority we should name them, because then I'm afraid I'd never be named if we asked for a two-thirds majority. Like I said, it's support. If only laws meant that we would actually be good, excellent and respect all rights and do nothing wrong, we would not break before the letter of the law, and I believe that all ministries involved in the process of enacting laws would somehow squeeze the last atoms of power out of themselves into the lager of some 250 laws and that this thing would be resolved. Nor will this law be a miracle stick, will it wave with it, and will it discriminate against no one, not by religion, not by sexual orientation, not by geographical origin, not by sex, nor by sex, and by what I know, in hospitality, by rarely speaking, I fear that I could be discriminated against among the first. [[…]] So, of course, the law is. Make sure that it is carried out as it must be carried out. Above all, the final appeal, the leap in the heads of many, if not all of us, and not to anyone who would not want him to do to us or her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u137	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would still go back to the amendment we were talking about, which was submitted by colleagues from Nova Slovenije. The law provides for the protection of each individual and individual in discrimination irrespective of gender, nationality, race or ethical origin, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation, social position, property status, education, any other personal circumstances in different areas of social life in the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in the exercise of the rights of obligations and other relations in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or other fields. Let me say that I agree with the amendment that has been tabled that discrimination is a problem. However, I do not agree, of course, with the law itself. I'll tell you the truth. I do not agree with the work of the Ombudsman, because the Ombudsman, one of his deputies, has the task of dealing with discrimination. The Ombudsman has also expanded his institution to select the maximum number of his deputies, and these deputies would be able to perform precisely this function, so we would not need a new institution, an institution that will, of course, become comprehensive again, even a series of funds in a country where we have on one side a whole number of people at the poverty threshold in the country where we have, we can say, almost before the collapse of Slovenia's national-security system, and in a country where we need to collect stoppers for a whole range of children, to enable them to have at least a few health interventions abroad. That's why I find this unacceptable. I am warning, and when we are also talking about discrimination, we do not need a new institution. The problem with the Slovenian state is that institutions do not work. The problem with the Slovenian state is that for a whole range of institutions we are putting huge amounts of money right at the expense of these groups that I have explained, and these institutions, we can say, are neglecting their basic mission. It will be typical of this institution when it is also established that it has too few professional staff to think about everything. But if we need anything in Slovenia, and here I thank my colleague Jasna Murgel, we would need an institution called the Ombudsman of Discrimination to an authentic Slovenian honest man. This is what we would need in Slovenia. This is the institute that we would urgently need – to an authentic Slovenian honest man, it has been the most discriminated against in this country for the last 70 years. And now we start at the beginning. I have been since my colleague Murglov's discussion, I hope, the President, that I will have the same opportunity to defend myself as my colleague, Murglov, in which she accused me of being discriminatory, to accuse her of coming from our friendly country, now Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Slovenia. As you know, I used her name in two cases. In the first case, when we were Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I think that part of the members of New Slovenia have also been accused, because of our different view of resolving the refugee crisis, that it was my colleague Murglov who spoke in several debates, that we did not understand the mission when we distinguished between refugees and economic migrants, that I also said in this direction that she had fled and that Slovenia had positively discriminated against Mrs Murglo. Mrs. Murglov, you have been in positive discrimination. Slovenian man, Slovenian people, Slovenian pensioners living on the threshold of poverty, accepted you and your 60,000 other migrants with open arms. In 1992 and 1993, when there was a war in your Republic, in Lenart alone with his late father, Dr. France Breznik, I collected help for your cousins. I've been involved in several humanitarian actions. As you know, one of my tasks, my humanitarian actions was also in Corsica, where in 2007, I researched our biggest aviation accident and collected the remains of our people. I did all this for nothing, not for payment. In 2015, when we received your relatives, the mother of Srebrenica, for genocide, I don't know if you remember your colleagues and colleagues when we celebrated, you also spoke, the president of the National Assembly, about genocide in Srebrenica. Here we wore the flowers of Mother Srebrenica, I attended a celebration in Knin in a few days. Exactly in the fortress in Knin, I was with the mothers of Srebrenica and the mother of Srebrenica, thanking the Croatian generals, especially in the actions of jump 1, jump 2, winter 1994, 1995, Bljesak, Storm, the Maestral military action and the final action of the South Movement, where, together with the Bosnian army, they saved another tragedy that Mladic's army wanted to carry out on Srebrenica at that time in Bihac, where they would kill another 15,000 of your relatives. Fifteen thousand of your compatriots were at risk if the Croatian army with the storm did not defeat the then Mladic army along with the Bosnian army. That's where I attended. Do you know what the Youth wrote about me at the time? That I was at the Ustasha party, even though I left this party first thing in the morning right after the celebration as a war veteran. But I went there because of my sense of human rights, because of my sense of justice, because of my view of genocide, because of my view of civilization, of civil values, and I advocate all this as a Member in all mandates. For me, all the victims are the same, regardless of belonging. Secondly, Mrs Murgel, the second time I used your name when you told us, Mr Janša and everyone else, we don't know what hate speech is. You were one of the vocations and gentlemen of one floor below in the State Council, where we spoke on the public stand about the hostile speech. You've been reading to someone who's been attacked, and it's been reported by a client who's been falsely portrayed by journalists, where insinuations have been generated, where total lies have been generated, and in the context of a team on public television. Mr Janša, as a representative of this party, as someone who has signed all the documents of this party, has reacted in his own way. You're the one who read it to him. And there's no problem. But the problem is that people have sent me your retort, that people, all those critics who are attacking me, too, could write that it is possible in that rage that the responsible editor of the Youth Mr. Repovš is a rat who writes about me not being true. I was very sad back then, I could say I was very sad because I went there for humanitarian purposes. The same mothers that you received here, and you felt sorry for them, stood with me at the Knin fort. This could be seen by all the other editors, and I'm putting it to them now, then no one was protecting me, but I didn't write that the journalists were rats and that it was spreading, even those who were critics of these articles in Youth on the website when they wrote about me that I was hanging out with Croatian mouths. So, it is those generals who have saved your people, your people's lives and defeated Mladic's, we can say, the genocide army. At the time, I did not write to all those critics who wrote about the mentioned non-truths that they were rats, because I am a politician, because I am aware that I stepped on some pedestal in the National Assembly and that this tolerance is great to my cover and also to those who disagree with me. And I didn't accuse you of hostile speech. I've told you something worse. You don't have to look, I told you, you've been spreading hate speech through the fake profile. You were the judge. You're a doctor of science and a judge in the district court. If you will look at all the people, including the citizens, my complete Twitter profile, all my tweets, revote, all my favorites, as we say, to see if I have ever used such harsh words as you used them. You've been spreading the hate speech of the fake profile, which is even worse, my esteemed colleague. And also your colleague Mrs Vervega, she has also given “favorite” to this, and so have you. Look at this profile. So you don't master social networks, my respectable colleague. At least that could be an excuse today. That's what I would expect of you as a doctor of science in yours, as a legal argument, in legal logic. And I must admit that when you said you would sue me, you are a typical representative of the judiciary, why it cannot work, why it is in the lowest place in Europe under all the criteria. And I'd like you to sue me. I'd like you to sue me for coming to court. I believe I'll lose everything in the first and second stages. However, I believe that those courts operating outside our country, those who have also recently told the representatives of the Supreme Court that they do not belong to the European Court, because they will not accept it under any circumstances because it is nothing of this lady. And it would be better now that she's back in order to step down right now. One more thing to tell you, ma'am, I was part of my time abroad, too, I was an economic migrant. I know how the Austrians took me in, how grateful I was for those jobs, so they gave me a career and some money. I am always grateful to every nation that enables me to do so, like the grateful half a million people of the Slovenians who had to leave this country because of the genocide they committed after the war and find their homeland somewhere beyond our borders. And look, Mrs Murgel, we have been on the Human Rights Commission in the previous term, and we have also been talking about the crimes of the Udba. The greatest liquidator of the Judgment was Mr. Arkan. I think you and your countrymen know him very well. You know what crimes he's committed. The Slovenian Audience, which you are protecting, where you have most often ignored meetings, where you have most often left the meeting or not commented or voted against any crime to investigate, has issued eight false passports to Mr Arkan with the Slovenian uprising and the names of Mr. Zemeljič and all others, Mr. Gorenc and everyone else. Now, let me tell you the connection that you will understand my legal logic. To all these people who have experienced these crimes, who are still searching for the bodies of their people today, those who have even died in the 1980s and late 80s. Years, all those crimes committed by the Yugoslav communist system after the war, you don't recognize. Like, in your opinion, as someone who discriminates against the Bosnian people, I confess to you criminals who have done evil to your people. They never deserved it, and I feel for your people. Through my actions, Mrs. Murgel, not through words, through my actions. That is why I am the representative of a typical Slovenian man, honest, decent and always welcome you and everyone else with open arms. All we want is a little attention. We want you to say thank you for once, but not to call my people who criticize you rats and reprimand them. There's no excuse in your legal logic. If that's logical, then we need to review your judgments too. But I'd like you to judge me. I'd like you to take me to court and face me. Once again, you have been reviving and spreading a hate speech and a non-hygienic speech that does not belong to the pedestal of someone who is a judge who has ruled on the fate of the people who this country is serving as a district judge and also a member in a relatively short career. Let me tell you one more thing, before I left the Slovenian Army, I resigned without any return, because I believe that I should not have been involved in politics as a soldier. As a judge, you were involved in politics. I don't know how during your judicial term you were able to do yours when you had a pre-election hearing, everything else as a judge, so that's where you went. This is where we have to look at this void that is. There's a whole line of Yes. This country has given me the privilege. [[…]] She gave me the privilege of participating in independence in 1991. I am grateful to all people in Slovenia for giving me the opportunity and mandate to be a Member of Parliament in this country on her silver anniversary. I'll never forget that. Maybe we're a little different. And one more thing, Mrs. Murgle, in the end. In The Hague, where an international criminal court recently held one final trial in this trial of Serbian criminals who committed genocide against your people, one of the lieutenants of the Serbian army asked him why they committed genocide in Srebrenica and why they killed more than 8,000 innocent people, how did they even think about this genocide – you know what he said? This is what you have in a documentary on RTV Slovenia was shown last year at the 20th anniversary, he said: "Also in 1945 Yugoslavia killed hundreds of thousands of people, no one ever answered. As a result, we thought that these tombs would never be discovered or discovered within 50 years.” I condemn these crimes and all the crimes that ever happened and confess them to you. I was the only Member in the previous reference when your relatives who did not get paid when they worked for construction companies in Slovenia, I think they were publicly excused by the Committee on the Economy as Slovenian because I was ashamed that the Slovenians did not pay your relatives. You can also look at this in a magnetogram. And when you look at my profile, my tweets, my facebook posts, when you talk to people who know me in a wider and narrow environment, then you can talk about me as being discriminatory to anyone. Then you can say it. My positive discrimination against most people, including Bosnian nationality, has proved in my life by my actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u139	Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Prejudice is a very bad thing. Prejudice is particularly severe when it is cultivated and inflated systematically. This is mainly the case in non-democratic societies. And it's also a very bad thing if no one reacts to them. This is primarily the responsibility of politics, the media, and partly the school system, across the entire vertical. That's so for the introduction. As far as the amendment is concerned, I cannot or will not support it for two reasons. Because she's missing the dimension of the language, I'm going to try to say something in depth about it later, and she's missing at least a sexual identity. I admit that I do not know exactly what “sex” means, but I believe that it is a special personal circumstance that may be subject to discrimination, so it is good that this text remains as it is that these people are given the opportunity to live their lives with dignity, with complete dignity. Language dimension. I don't know if you know, dear colleagues and colleagues, what is the actual state of residence of members of the Italian national community in a place where we are historically living, staying, staying. It's not what it shows. First of all, it took me a few years to reach out to senior government officials to admit that the free use of Italian language is free throughout the municipality of the coast or, if nothing else, officially throughout the whole area covered by either courts or administrative units. Because the senior officials and even the lower ones were convinced that this was limited to an imaginary line, the border within those municipalities, because there is a mandatory bilinguality regarding tables, for example, local names, and not the use of language. Now we need to know that there is no language ban on anything like that. I mean, who is forbidden to speak English, if he is an Englishman, or even in Slovenia or anywhere in the world, I don't know any country where the use of any language or object of intimidation or negative response would be prohibited because someone speaks a language. In this sense it is very interesting that down to us, if someone speaks German, everything is fine, even in restaurants, shops and so on, people find that someone speaks a foreign language, one understands a German no, but it is not problematic. And that happens a lot. However, if we use Italian, but the reaction that comes out is, say, if I refer to the previous debate, it comes from the situation where I now have to say that we have given Italians through three totalitarianisms, as it is said. Especially as I would say, the Italians we stayed home from the former Yugoslavia. As an interesting thing yet, in the last democratic elections or the first after World War I, down with us, Italy, the first and last, because then the elections were abolished, there was one coup, Mussolini set up his regime so that, of course and before and then, killing also, killing, humiliating, castaway oil, it was happening all over Italy, you know. This has also happened to my fellow countrymen. I don't believe anyone suffered more because of this than anyone else because he had the same treatment as a man. In short, the socialists won these elections down here. That's where the Nationale block didn't win, the socialists won. And for these socialists who won, grown men voted, say, Italians and Slovenians alike. But by 1956 and with special intensity from 1954 to 1956, everyone, Italians and Slovenians alike, had gone from almost everyone from the same space. And also those two kids in Strunjan, you know, their families didn't speak Slovenian at home. So much for perception. Now, why the tongue? That's why I see the Primorska News there, and I'm going to mention them separately, because they're still very susceptible to these things lately. [[…]] They published protest letters from the inhabitants, as they would say, inside the Kori municipality, we are basically neighbors with these people, I live about 200 meters from this local community, who protested because there was also “wind” on the garbage cans. People couldn't bear the bilingual inscription on garbage cans, and the newspapers are very pleased to publish it. Or it also happens for political reasons, which are connected to something else, but it does happen if our saint is in a local community, speaks his own language, and all of a sudden, there is no bilinguality here, what is said and so on and so forth. We had to mediate and explain the basics of our legal system. It's a real atmosphere. Each of us faces at least twice a year or three times a year this relationship with us by the people we live with every day. And that can happen to any one of us at any time. This means that this institution, which is now being put on its feet in a way that is more dignified than the fate of a representative before, to which we have also once turned, but immediately explained that it can do nothing and actually could not do anything. Things are changing now. We hope this works. So it's good to make sure that such an institution works. Although, as we see and here, we should all, as it is said, knock heads together and find out how to revive also the functioning of all the other mechanisms that we have including ordinary laws and are not implemented, for example, in the area of bilinguality, this government has had to adopt a programme for the implementation of this bilingualism, which, if we want to, since 1954, this legislation has been in force more or less since then, I am so old, and is still not being implemented, while Venice down with us had bilingual jurisdiction in the 18th century, and it is free of charge, bilingual with Slovenian, of course. It was possible at the time. We can't do that here. This programme, which is somehow, as it is called, spread over three years until the end of the planned end of the institutional mandate by 2018, in order to provide 150 different forms, bilingual, three years. This is little too much, but at the same time we also have a special working body in Parliament – the Commission for National Communities, which is composed of us Members and which will keep an eye on the implementation of this programme. It is now important that what is written also moves into reality to better determine whether or not it is necessary and how then to change things because they feel in operation; the legislation is never perfect, it is perfect constantly, because we are here. It would also be good to keep an eye on the implementation of laws and thus respect those who have been called upon to enforce them and who do not result in the filling of courts with various lawsuits. It is also expected that institutions that are supposed to be independent will also prove this through their own work. They can be biased in two ways, so that they are very active for some and are completely passive for others, and they can also be biased in a way that they do nothing in certain areas, which is as bad as they were before. In this way, people would probably begin to put little trust in this country and its functioning in politics alone. This would welcome the forces and help us also to face other, economic and other objective problems, with one better energy, with some elan who is supported by the awareness that the rule of law is working and that we can trust in its institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u141	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I must say that I will support the amendment proposed by Nova Slovenije. But I'm going to try, because everyone was talking about this marriage in broad terms, very briefly, because I don't have time anymore, to focus on two things. The first thing is that, at the end of the day, my colleague Battelli said something. I think he's had a very good discussion, very good, very good quality, and this is an independent body. We know very well, and most Slovenian citizens also know what independence means. This is what they feel the most when it comes to the judicial branch of power, because those who have money, good lawyers, can do what they want, those who have no money can't even complain. And that's discrimination and bullshit on a cubic. And why don't we trust independence in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in nicknames, in independence, as proposed by the coalition? Remember the anti-corruption commission, remember its action – Against which party did it act with the imaginary affair of Patria and at the end of the week before the election closed the president of the most powerful opposition party, and now her whole case is falling? This is an independent body and then we have this Information Commissioner. Remember how many penalties she wrote to the SDS against others, and what penalties and so on. These are independent organs?Oh, my God! And we would now believe this independent, called, independent body, which, by a simple majority, is being embroiled by the National Assembly. I would believe and, here, Mr President of the National Assembly and a member of the largest party, would expect him, of course, because such important eminent persons here, who have great legitimacy to convince the SMC to at least, if I wanted to follow what the law says, propose a two-thirds majority appointment of this body, the president of this body. A two-thirds majority, then you could tell me that this team sitting in the National Assembly is really going to vote for a president who is going to be politically non-problematic. Only in the case of a two-thirds majority. Of course, now, because you need an authority to persecute the opposition and civil society, which is not good enough for you, you need an urgent body with a simple majority, a completely political body that will carry out exactly what the Austrians will order those ladies and gentlemen who have done it in the past. And that's what we're worried about. We're very concerned. We all know that early elections are coming. Thus, if they want to destroy once again the credibility and capacity and quality of those who do not agree with certain ways of operating this country, it is necessary to establish a quasi-competent authority, simply will not be interchangeable and will be able in any way to discredit an individual until this point in order to lose credibility between Slovenian voters and voters. What the anti-corruption commission did when they made the story, the corrupt story of Patri. It's broken. Shamelessly, utterly, I will not say to all those who sat in the judicial branch of power and all those who know the law should not be in here looking for anything if any of them were present at the time when this mess was going on and it wasn't over today. [[…]] Shame. Shame. And this is an independent branch of power, that to independent authorities in this society? And then here, the opposition, we should take your word for it. Don't joke. Don't make fun of us. Don't make fun of us. We're not that crazy. We know exactly which way the story goes. We understand what you're trying to accomplish. However, if they had a fair purpose, they would have suggested by a two-thirds majority that the law should state that a two-thirds majority is required for appointment. And if they did, they'd back me up like that. That's what I'm telling you. This solution would be supported because, with the two-thirds majority, the opposition and the coalition should certainly also be aligned, one hundred percent harmonising for the person proposed there, you know that. Today, one of the debaters from Desus said, we know that if we did, we could not agree that we would appoint a certain candidate to this position. That's preconceived. That doesn't make any sense. If we really want to achieve the goal that we are talking about today, but we are talking about discrimination, by doing what you are doing now, the fact is logical and clear, you are again looking for a place at the expense of taxpayers, here you are establishing a new independent body at the expense of taxpayers, for which you will pay 200 000 euros again, not you, but taxpayers, because you will make room for yours, I call it, a well-deserved political cadre. A place where you'll give them a place to then do what's right, to destroy the SDS and the opposition and civil society that doesn't agree with you that they're going to have a great position there, make good money and do exactly what they think they're going to do. It's a piece of crap on a cubicle. And again at the expense of taxpayers. At the expense of those who – as I have said ten times today – have a pension of €330 or a pension of €230 or a pension of €460 for the 40 years of work, for those €120,000 and so on, not to mention again. And don't tell me I'm talking to you, I'm talking 100 percent credible and responsible. And for what I'm saying, I'm behind it. I will repeat this a thousand more times, if necessary, in this House, until you start to think differently, to start doing differently and to start dealing with what is crucial to the country, not with what you think is important to the preservation of the privileges. There's a difference between the opposition and the coalition. The Slovenian man will understand this more than ever in the way I have just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u143	It's a word I've got. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u144	Dear President, Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction, let me first say that I will support the bill. When preparing for this debate, I have noted, inter alia, the current advocate of the principle of equality, that discrimination is not only a problem of social minorities, but is primarily a problem of the ineffective functioning of society and therefore concerns any individual, because it is actually a matter of concern. I would like to see that, as a company of the Institute of Advocates of the principle of equality, we would not need to do so, although we do not deviate from the other European countries in this respect. Nevertheless, I am pleased that this time the ruling policy has managed to find a solution to the fact that from now on the advocate will be an independent and independent body, which is also the essence or main solution of the new bill. It seems quite understandable to me that such an organ must be independent if we are to ensure equality of people in society regardless of gender, race, nationality and so on, in some absolute sense, if I say so. And given the state regime we have in Slovenia, this is possible in the way envisaged by the proposed amendment to the law. The proposer has already made it clear at the meeting of the Committee that, otherwise, Slovenia could face a very high penalty of money, which is totally pointless given that we can spend money on the functioning of this body. I agree with the current advocate, Mr Vernik Šetinec, who has been very critical at the Committee's meeting on the new bill, i.e. I believe that the law could be even better, but I suppose it has been written in such a way that, according to its ability, it can also be implemented and, as such, it is sufficient to meet at least the minimum standards that we must respect in accordance with the European Union's legal order. However, further practice will show what changes will be needed, and there is always time for this, and of course the policy will not be able and will not be able to close its eyes before this. What I would like to stress is that preventing and eliminating discrimination is not just a task of a country and a policy of diversity that we face in life, we need to be able to live and accept it, because there can also be a lot of development opportunities, in short, we must make these differences between us a space, a space for co-existence based on equality. However, this is in particular a matter of policy and a state which must do everything necessary to protect against discrimination. And even with this law, the country has taken a step further. However, as regards the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 1, or the proposal to delete two of the personal circumstances, these are the notions of "sex identity" and "sex expression", I believe that this would deprive a particular group of people of their security from discrimination because it is people, their own internal and individual experience of sex, i.e. transsexual persons. On the basis of the 2014 survey, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights of the FRA found that transsexuals are one of the most vulnerable groups of discrimination. Therefore, I do not have to agree with the fact that the personal circumstances of “sex identity” and “sex expression” are deleted, but that I am defending the opposite. In accordance with the report of the same agency on discrimination based on sexual orientation, sexual identity and sexual characteristics in the European Union, Slovenia is also included among the Member States where the prohibition of discrimination based on transsexuality falls under the so-called general prohibition of discrimination. Slovenia is one of the few countries of the European Union that does not have a personal situation of sexual expression or transgenderity against discriminatory legislation, and it is therefore necessary to comply with judicial practice and European and international human rights law, which recognises these two personal circumstances as personal circumstances. I will not support the amendment of New Slovenia in Article 1 of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u146	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! As I have already pointed out at the meeting of the working body of the National Assembly, of course, I also wish today that as a society we should simply strive to live in a community where we will all feel equal and, of course, treated equally regardless of what our personal circumstances are, which in fact, with some diversity enrich our world. To that end, the European Commission, which has issued a warning to Slovenia, believes that the implementation of the Council Directive implementing the principle of equal treatment of persons would result in irregularities, i.e. a lack of implementation. So if there was no law today, here I agree with my colleague Zink, then of course the Republic of Slovenia would pay the daily penalty. We know what this means for the state budget and some responsibility for public finances. However, if this law receives support, we will, of course, also eliminate irregularities concerning equal treatment of persons, regardless of race, nationality, or access to goods and services by men and women, or equal employment opportunities. It seems to me extremely important that this law somehow establishes an Institute for Speakers of the same possibilities, which will provide independent assistance to victims of discrimination in articulating or exercising their rights. The fact is, of course, that any individual who has become discriminated against in these certain proceedings does not always have to be self-reliable and, of course, he will be able, when he seeks the right to deny his own dignity and personal integrity, to turn to an advocate who will then, of course, assist him in articulating from the point of view of a particular phenomenon of discrimination. I think this is also good because, of course, we can, to a certain extent, also have greater visibility only, the recognition of the very phenomenon of discrimination even among all stakeholders who, of course, are involved in some trial later, if that happens. I think it is very good that, in addition to some basic tasks, the advocate will also have an educational mission, because we have read that he will also carry out some independent studies, analyses and, in fact, will in some representative way measure the phenomenon of discrimination in the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, will then compare these analyses with foreign ones. I think it is very useful that these mirrors, in which we can see ourselves as a society, personally think that there are never too many of them and that they are, regardless of whether the glaucoma of society is positive or negative. The comparability of some free-thinking treatment of the various constitutions of the European Union seems to me to be equally important from a political point of view, because I feel that it is, in fact, in some objective way, the current social climate or its attitude towards the very phenomenon of discrimination. I personally thought we'd be able to avoid ideology, but unfortunately that didn't happen. I personally think as a young person that of course we simply have to stop pouring this salt into some early half-life history and let it actually deal with the profession. Unfortunately, this was not possible, so of course I will have to replicate my colleague Irgl's statement that we are not worthy of burial in the SMC Group. Once again, in the SMC Group we have always been worthy of burial of all victims of war and post-war violence, of course we have also proved this by law. Here I also agree with my colleague and will further explain why we did not support the decision she mentioned. In fact, the conclusion stipulated that in some way the National Assembly should order law enforcement authorities to deal with certain cases and then, from some own interpretations, of course, determine whether or not it was a criminal case. I think that this must, of course, be in the domain of the body itself, including the police and criminals, and of course the National Assembly cannot, with some conclusions, order the law enforcement body to act. This would, of course, be totally inappropriate and would not be in line with the democracy which I hope is still in force at the moment, and I think it is in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as organ independence is concerned. Of course, it would be nice for the body to be under the auspices of the ministry, because so much more money could be wasted, but unfortunately, the legal order of such an organization does not allow us to do so. Authorities that are independent must be independent and independent. If, of course, the body is under the Ministry of Labour, the institution or advocate should be responsible to the Minister, which, of course, means that, as such, it cannot be independent if, of course, it is responsible to the Minister. Thus, the legal order simply does not allow the organisation of the Institute to be as organised as Irgle has already mentioned. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, we must stress that the Ombudsman's tasks are in some way also justified in the Constitution, and the fact is that the Ombudsman controls public authorities rather than the private sector, if I may say so simplistically. The proponent will supervise both the public sector and the private sector and analyse it. The guardian of the private sector does not analyse. If we would actually like to realise all of these concerns raised by the SDS Group in the debate through a discussion by colleague Irgle, then of course we should change a bunch of legislation in order to do so, of course. As for the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, which would like to remove the "sex identity" and "sex characteristics" dictatorship from the law, we simply cannot agree to the adoption of such an amendment in the SMC Group, because such a dictatorship is, of course, the practice of the European Union and international human rights law. The fact is that Slovenia is one of the few countries that do not have the personal circumstances of sexual expression in anti-discrimination legislation, we are close to Cyprus, Lithuania and Romania, and the other members of the European Union have this dictatorship, and I think it is right that, in some internal political sense, of course, legislation, we are approaching those Member States which, of course, understand some anti-discrimination approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martina Vuk, Secretary of State, has the floor. [[…]] Excuse me. Mrs. Eva Irgle, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. As you know, I was mentioned in Mr Tabakovic's debate. Mr Tabakovic, I'd like to ask that you're at the Modern Center Party. In fact, you voted against the six decisions I have proposed as President of the Commission in relation to the debate on the post-war sea. And I personally believe you want all the dead to be buried with dignity, but the problem is that some steps need to be taken before, but you are against these steps. Why do I say that? Because you voted against the key decisions. And to be precise, that people won't think that we're saying this in our head, look, I've suggested to the government to establish a public database of reference DNA, where relatives of the victims will be able to get their DNA samples for comparison with the DNA of the victims. You were against this decision. After that, I suggested to the Government that it call on all judicial authorities to report on the reasons for not carrying out investigations for each site for which the Commission will initiate the examination procedures in accordance with the second paragraph of the law. You were against it, not just you in the SMC, but the entire coalition. You also objected to the appointment, in accordance with Article 16, of the new Commission of the Government to resolve the issues of hidden graves as soon as possible. Even though you know it has to be done, you have been against this decision. And, of course, this decision also indicated that a new Slovenian commitment was appointed to it by a member of the Society. Yes, but it is important that this member, such a member, is also on this committee. Then, we suggested to the government that it consider the possibility of burying the victims of communism in the way that it was done in the case of the victims in Srebrenica. Which means that first it is necessary to identify the victims, and in the light of grief to bury each victim in his grave, for the grave is the inalienable right of each individual. You have also voted against this decision. You have also voted against this decision that the Commission proposes to the Government to obtain opinions from the governments of Austria, Croatia, Hungary, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so on regarding the burial of victims in accordance with the practice and approach established in the event of the identification of victims in Srebrenica. You were against this decision, too. When you talk like that, it's not fair and it's not responsible. I think it's necessary to know, and it's right that people know, because that's exactly what I said, and that's actually discrimination. Discrimination against all those who have the right to know and discrimination against all those who have the right to dignity and rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Now, please welcome Mrs. Martina Vuk, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again! I think I need to respond to some of the references in this debate to the amendment to Article 1. Today, discrimination is very often used, of course it belongs to the law under consideration, and it is also right to establish appropriate bodies to assess what discrimination is, when it comes to, how it is properly sanctioned, when it needs to be removed and in what way. As regards the amendment itself to Article 1, Member Cink and Member Tabakovic have already explained both terms, which, as a personal circumstance, are also referred to in Article 1. It's important to stress, we're talking about transsexuals here. So these are people who have a sexual identity that is different from their biological sex, and they express this identity in a different way than would be expected, as usual for this biological sex. That's what we're talking about. As already mentioned, comparatively with other countries of the European Union, Slovenia is one rare country which does not have these personal circumstances named in any law and which does not have it under its anti-discrimination legislation, but is dealt with under other, other personal circumstances. This should therefore be highlighted, as this must also be stressed, but this is the difference between sexual orientation alone. So these people are not determined how sexually oriented they are because of their sexual identity and sexual expression. As far as other indications are concerned, how inappropriate it is to establish this new body, how it is proposed in the law, how it should be different, and how it could otherwise be satisfied with the directives we are transposing, and how the European Commission's further procedure against Slovenia would not actually be followed. Let me tell you that most of the time we have been working in the preparation of this law, how to establish this independent body, which will be able to perform all the tasks it has to perform in accordance with the directives imposed on it, and which will be provided with sufficient autonomy and independence to enable it to carry out its work, to carry out these tasks and to meet all the requirements of the European Commission. It turned out that, yes, of course, one option would be true within the Ombudsman's Institute, but, as has been pointed out several times today, then we should change the constitution. However, the process of amending the Constitution is not so simple that it can be done very quickly, and it is not said that I will not put my hand in the fire, in order to reach agreement in this process of constitutional change, that this should be regulated in such a way that an advocate or advocate of the principle of equality can be named before the Ombudsman. Therefore, it is now proposed that an independent and independent body be appointed as another State authority and, accordingly, comparable to other independent state authorities, the proposed procedure for appointing an advocate or advocate is also proposed. And since we have already discussed this very intensively on the committee, once again the question: In what way can this person be called more independently than by this procedure, as proposed, when all the officials who are the heads of these independent state bodies are appointed by the National Assembly? In what way? You can say by a two-thirds majority, but that's the way, that's the majority that's necessary to appoint a guardian or a guardian of human rights, and today we've heard, because we know that the guardian isn't independent. So how are we going to ensure this necessary independence? As far as the funds needed to establish this institute are concerned, we are talking about 200 000 euros a year. The annual budget of this body is estimated at EUR 200 000. We can describe how many scholarships are, how many unemployment benefits, how much money, social assistance and so on, but let me remind you, scholarships, state scholarships, unemployment benefits, cash social assistance and all other social transfers are legal rights. The person who fulfils the conditions shall belong to him, irrespective of the budget item set for that purpose. This belongs to this person, so that we do not resort to or interfere with financial social assistance, other transfers, and so on. And if it were evil, I would point out how much money is needed for a single referendum, and count how many we have had to date and how many such bodies, scholarships, financial assistance for other transfers, new jobs, subsidies and not know what else we have spent on it, but it was necessary to finance it because we have such arrangements that the referendum should be implemented if all the conditions that must be met are met. And it was done. When we talk about the fines set out in this law, they are equal to those set for fines in the Labour Relations Act. They are equivalent to this, and so we have come up with these heights of fines, so they are not excessive, they are not artificially created, we have not invented them, but we have coordinated them, because we know that the Employment Relations Act also prohibits discrimination, determines what must be fulfilled, what is prohibited and also establishes that an inspection for work is one that is competent to detect such discrimination. When it comes to the reverse burden of proof and it is pointed out how we introduce a novelty, which will mean a insane change when nothing needs to be proved, it is necessary to say that the existing applicable law of ZUNEO, with a brief designation, already contains the reverse burden of proof. Even more, we have now even sharpened this reversed burden of proof, so that we can speak in truth about some shared burden of proof, because instead of this doctrine, which is currently valid, it must state the facts of those who claim to be discriminated against, they must then prove them. Which means that it is, however, a somewhat stricter form and a diction that needs to be demonstrated. At the outset, we have also heard in the debate on the committee that this will be an all-powerful law, which will introduce an all-powerful body, whose purpose is to prevent all those who think differently, as the majority decides, I don't know who, and that this is, therefore, some means, a disguised means to establish such an organ that will punish everything in a row if someone says something that someone who otherwise thinks doesn't want to hear. I think it is very dangerous to discuss, to use such words, especially because, in fact, Ambassador Irgle has found that this new body, this new body, has inspection powers and does not have criminal powers. So he's just not all-powerful enough to be able to make fines after a long time. Let me remind you, a fine advocate or advocate of the principle of equality can't say it, can't say it at all. However, it shall conduct an inspection procedure and, in the context of this inspection, have the following powers or may order the elimination of irregularities identified in carrying out the inspection within the time limit set, propose taking appropriate measures to prevent further discrimination or to remedy the consequences of discrimination within the time limit set and to prevent further discrimination, and may also waive the matter further to the competent inspection. These are existing inspections, which have existing legal bases, which have the Inspection Procedure Act, by which they operate, which then, in specific cases, determine whether or not there has been a violation or discrimination, and can determine the fine and provide for judicial protection. This is essentially a concrete effect on the specific cases brought by this law. However, what is very important and among the four tasks still remain, which are extremely important, is this so-called preventive role. Information, awareness, reporting, making recommendations for us to actually start talking about going through a sieve of what discrimination really is, without being used if necessary, when we think that word fits nicely into our context. This is the purpose of this body to actually establish a practice when more or less a large majority of us understand what discrimination is, why it is prohibited and why it is right to prevent it substantially before it comes to the first signs in the first place, so that it can only be created once it has been created. Maybe just by the way, there are 107 thousand unemployed and not 120 thousand in the country right now. The number decreases from month to month. We know that from February onwards, the year-to-year fluctuations are such that unemployment goes down. And it's going to be shrinking for a while. Action has been taken to draw on European funds dedicated to active employment policies. For some time now, we have a system of public works in place, not to mention other things that are being done. This isn't the only area we're covering. We like to joke and say that we are the ministry with the longest name and also with an extremely wide scope of work. And this area and this law is one of those tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it under Article 1? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, State Secretary with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Madam Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to address your concerns about the costs of the referendum. We have a democracy in this country. And the referendums were and will be, this is the basic instrument of democracy where people rule. The word itself comes, as you know, from two old Greek words demos and crateins. And I'm not going to hand it over. At the referendum, people also decided to become a member of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. Of course, a referendum or the result of a ministerial referendum is painful. But I'm not gonna talk about it now. However, I am sure that if I were a minister myself, there would have been a referendum when a referendum took place on 20 December last year for the area for which he was responsible, I would have stepped down on the same referendum Sunday when the referendum was held. Here I would like to thank the distinguished colleague Robert Battelli, who discovered that our amendment had reached a lapsus. In mere typing of expressions such as sex, nationality, race and ethical origin, religion or belief, disability, age and so on, sexual orientation, we have lost the word "ethnic origin" for the word "ethnic origin". And Comrade Battelli read this amendment mathematically. I thank him, we apologize, there's been a lapsus. You may all know that we are advocates of the language of the majority nation of the national smaller ones, especially advocates of the mother tongue, although we do not yet have a definition of what will be the mother tongue when the child has two fathers. We have written this amendment because we are actually professionally deepening ourselves into the theory of sex, from which dictatorships such as "sex identity" and "sex expression" are derived. We have read a lot about the famous Slovenian woman who has stood out in the referendum campaign and is also working in the field of family therapy and may already be a doctor in the field of gender theory. And then he probably knows something. She's a doctor, or she'll be a doctor in very short time. If she's not, I don't have any exact data. So here in the explanation of the amendment, our reasons for thinking that this amendment would be good to accept are clearly justified. We probably no longer formally have the possibility to reintroduce the word "language" in the amendment proposal, which, as it is said, has fallen due to a lapsus. As far as the new body of counsel is concerned. Yes, it is very difficult to say that a body set up by the legislative branch of power is the National Assembly, that it is independent. This one's going to be very dependent because he's with the Ministry. Perhaps it would be better if you were with the Ombudsman. He is with the Ministry and in a way written or unwritten, his minister or minister will be his boss. We regret that, as in the previous item on the agenda, when we spoke about the partnership community, the proposal of the law of colleague Jani Möderndorfer did not come to a broader consensus. How will this advocate be selected now? Yeah, he'll be chosen by the coalition. It's perfectly normal, and that's not good. If the coalitions are left-handed, allow me to speculate, this organ will act in the sense of stopping the right-hand man. If this organ sets up a right coalition someday, let me speculate, this organ will act in terms of stopping the left. That's how these things are gonna work. Why am I saying this? Because we have experience. Look at the KPK, the last one. Well, now that's how we got the big deal, we don't actually have it. It's the organ. That is why this definition of advocate is inconvenient here, and I also have a feeling of experience so far when it comes to various discrimination, how this body will react here. Will an authority, when a private person, some director and the owner of the company will be available for, say, a candidate for a technical director, a director of one woman and one man, both with the same powers, and will choose for example a man. Perhaps a lady who has not been chosen will be able to appeal to this counsel. Then how will things go? For I am interested in how things will work in our lives, who will now be less or more discriminated against here. Discrimination is, of course, an extremely sensitive issue and must be addressed. Yeah, he needs to be saved. But this is actually the area of our lives, which is so complicated that we can actually have discrimination every minute. I don't know how this advocate will even manage all this discrimination. I would also like to know, Madam Secretary of State, who is the author of this text of the law. Please don't answer me that ministry, because there are people there. Have the outside co-workers been invited to participate? Who are these outside associates? That's what I'm interested in. I believe that we are a pro-European party, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are a pro-European party, and I believe that these matters need to be regulated in accordance with European standards. I am also interested, although this issue has already been raised today, why this law does not implement, does not give minimum attention to adopting a resolution on discrimination against European Christians. In fact, here I want to focus on eliminating discrimination in all religious communities registered in Slovenia. I do not want to expose Christians specifically, although we do not take the rights of Christians seriously enough, so says the Council of Europe. That's what the world of Europe is saying. After discussion, this was last February, perhaps at the end of January last year, in which several cases of actual and legal violence against European Christians were discussed, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution at its winter session on 29 January last year with a large majority of the votes cast, which requires more religious freedom and respect for religious pluralism in the Member States. What has Slovenia done in this area? This resolution requires in the Member States, we are a Member State, demanding more religious freedom and respect for religious pluralism. This resolution received 67 votes, only two of them opposed and 15 were undecided. And Europe, colleagues and colleagues, should be an international example of respect for religious freedom. Unfortunately, it is becoming contrary to this idea of European integration. There are reports of violence, vandalism and other forms of hostility to Christians and churches on European soil. The media do not generally detect and report on this phenomenon. The sentences are also very cheap for the competent state institutions. And this Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Parliamentarians called on national legislators, i.e. the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure a reasonable regulation of the situation which would in practice respect freedom of religion. And now I ask the applicants and those who have announced support for this law whether the domestic task we have received from the Council of Europe has been done with this law. Of course, we all know how things are with the rule of law. The letter of marriage can be so beautiful, it can be gilded, but what kind of implementation it will be, but of course it can be a big problem and my personal concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. By the time we got to the law, we had a lot of restraints on our mother's work. There has been some improvement in the process, we have made some progress mainly at the point where the advocate has been given the opportunity to submit a request for a constitutional review on his own. But some shortcomings remain. Now, specifically in Article 6, there is a problem that we have partly heard about today, namely the disabled. Persons with disabilities in all areas of life here in one way or another run into a whole range of obstacles that could in fact be easily removed if the competent authorities carried out their work. And this is exactly what is called a reasonable adjustment or an appropriate adjustment, which is actually something that is already a legal category. Now, let's say a very banal or hypothetical case. If we had a member who was elected and was in a wheelchair, of course we should adapt this parliamentary bench, unset this chair, fill the gap and allow him to access this wheelchair. A bigger problem would be in other meeting rooms where this is likely to be a much larger feat. There have been a lot of protests about this, about this reasonable adjustment, mainly by civil society, but then it fell out of law. In the United Left we propose a simple solution, and this is to define indirect discrimination by extending the definition of the Disability Equality Act. In this way, the defender could also use all the instruments he has to protect the rights of persons with disabilities. In short, we propose that this so-called reasonable adjustment be described in the law itself. Otherwise, everything remains dependent on inspections that are not even specialised in this regard, such as a traffic inspection. We still have one area that is very inadequately resolved. Here I would also like some kind of government response. At the meeting of the Committee, the Secretary State did not define until this amendment, but expressed its reservation that this amendment would require more resources. I quote, "this sense of adjustment already exists, but not fully established in all areas, here I agree, but this also needs to be assessed in the light of this new body's capacity and we are afraid not to bite into too many apples in this case." Here I would ask the government representatives to make it clear to the Slovenian public and, above all, to those with disabilities whether the Government is prepared to provide these funds – about 30 000 euros – so that one person can verify the actual situation in this area. We estimate that this is more than necessary, that is why we are proposing this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State Martina Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Twice or three times today, this reasonable or appropriate adjustment was mentioned in the debate, and it has always been suggested that it is a suitable adjustment for people with disabilities. Let me tell you that ZIMI, the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities in its Article 3, defines an appropriate adjustment, where it says, "a suitable adjustment means necessary legislative, administrative and other measures which do not impose a disproportionate burden where in a particular case it is necessary for persons with disabilities to be ensured, on the same basis as others, the enjoyment or exercise of rights and freedoms." Article 9 states: "Use and adaptation of public use facilities. It is necessary to adjust the objects appropriately during the construction or reconstruction of the building. Access to information. Suitable or reasonable adjustments in accessible forms of language and technology records in disabled persons..." and so on. About the job. ZZRZI, the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act recognises the right to work rehabilitation, to adjust the job, and says that the possibility of employment is ensured by adapting or using modern technologies, that a work-and-work-environment adjustment plan should be developed for disabled people and so on. Both at the general level laid down by the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities Act, we have legally settled provisions on appropriate adjustments. If these appropriate adjustments are not made, action should be taken. However, a general provision in the Law on Protection against Discrimination concerning reasonable or appropriate adjustments would mean that these adjustments must be made for every personal situation, i.e. for me who is 154 centimeters tall and I have many problems because I cannot and cannot achieve many things and is not adapted to me. It would be reasonable, but are we capable of ensuring this everywhere? That's why I said that I don't hope to say that we won't bite into an oversized apple with regard to disabled people, but appropriate adjustments are legal, fixed and mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dr. Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you. I think this is exactly the argument I'm going to need to confirm this amendment. If we have the whole legal basis and things are arranged, why not add this as a definition to the law that provides for protection against discrimination. This simply expands the field on which the advocate of the principle of equality operates. I think that this is just a supplement that would give a basis for paying special attention to these cases as well. In short, when people with disabilities are those who are discriminated against.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I might have allowed myself just one piece of information. The National Assembly shall have specified what to do if a member on a wheelchair is elected. That's not the problem. When these plans were made, the elevators were also made available to both halls in this case, which applies not only to the meeting of the assembly, but also to other events in the National Assembly. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the United Left Group of Members. Dr. Matthew Tashner Watovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u160	As in the previous one, there is still a problem here, and I think that this may be one of the key issues in this law. It is not clear from the draft law, in particular as regards Article 33, whether the applicant will have to prove the purpose. We know that proof of purpose is something that is extremely difficult. This is certainly one of the reasons why there is no case law in Slovenia and why no one is convicted of discrimination in Slovenia. This does not mean, of course, that there is no discrimination, it is already statistically clear, but it shows that we have a particular problem. Taking an analogy is a very similar example to punishing employers who do not pay social contributions. This is an offence under Article 196 of the Penal Code, but the Prosecutor must prove that the employer acted knowingly. Therefore, prosecutors do not even press charges, indictments, but only to be convicted, for proving the purpose of something that is virtually impossible. With our solution, the proposed amendment explicitly states that it is not necessary to prove the purpose in these cases. I think discrimination is something that is clear. Of course, the one who feels it is no different from his situation, or it is something that would have been intentional or unintentional. Here too, I would ask the representatives of the Government to define themselves until this solution to record this unnecessary demonstration of purpose, because if someone, then they should be aware that the victim of discrimination, I repeat, is completely irrelevant whether discrimination occurs intentionally or because of some negligence or something else. It is absurd, in fact, to allow for such a situation where, in fact, those who are in some way victims do not have some appropriate safeguards to resolve their situation. So, either the proposal, as proposed, requires proof of purpose, because of course this is not explicitly defined. If so, this is unacceptable and we therefore propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this at Article 33? Here you are, Mrs. Martina Vuk, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. Article 34 sets out the reverse burden of proof and states: "When a person who has been discriminated against in proceedings in the case of an applicant, a competent inspection or another procedure in which it requires the treatment of discrimination shows facts justifying the presumption..." Therefore, there is no need to prove the purpose, it must demonstrate the facts justifying the presumption, and at that time, the person alleged to be discriminated against must, therefore, prove that in the present case, it did not violate that prohibition or that unequal treatment is admissible under this law. Therefore, we do not feel that it is necessary to explicitly rule out intention. But where it comes to something where it is determined whether discrimination could arise, there is an important purpose, because otherwise we cannot determine whether or not it could have arisen. That is why we do not feel that this change is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for the opportunity. I would kindly ask the Secretary of State if he could answer my question, who is the author of this bill, who are the organisations and individuals who have been invited to draft this text. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u165	Here you are, Secretary of State, Mrs. Martina Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u166	Of course, I can answer, although we are now dealing with individual amendments, so I do not know if this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I will answer if you allow me. The authors or authors of this law are co-workers and co-workers from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The law has also changed slightly in interdepartmental coordination with other ministries, with other national authorities with which we have coordinated it, notably with the personal data protection information officer, including with the Ombudsman. In the context of the public debate, two meetings were held, if I may say so, where all NGOs involved in this area were invited to participate very widely or expressed an interest in being present there. There the draft law was presented and could make comments. There was no outsourcing, so we didn't have any external authors, no external advisers. The basis from which we started is, in addition to the existing Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment, then the European Commission's official reminder, from which we came, and the substantive starting points, or the analysis of this law itself, which was prepared by a working group appointed by the Government in 2009 or 2010, if I recall, and the then government has also considered information related to the conclusions of this working group. At the time, however, this working group was appointed precisely because of the menacing reminder by the European Commission that the area and the status of the advocate of the principle of equality, which I recall, was regulated within the framework of the Office for Equal Opportunities, which was then appointed as the Office of the Government. The Commission had already initiated the procedure and said that this was inappropriate. In 2012, the government reorganized the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to abolish or join the Office for Women's Policy and to become one of the employees of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and also a advocate of the principle of equality, i.e. without any special status at the post of Undersecretary, by also appointing him as an advocate of the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much for explaining. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u168	Article 35 also has one flaw, which is that it does not foresee something which would be in the public interest. The problem is that individual actions are not an effective remedy in cases of discrimination. If they were, there would be at least some case law in this area today. So someone would already answer for discrimination. But that's not happening. It is no wonder, then, that humans do not even report these cases because it is very difficult to get some relief. If we just look at the case of the deleted. The Ministry of the Interior deleted it in February 1992. The first decision of the Constitutional Court was only in 1999, and the collective action before the European Court of Human Rights took place only in 2012. If there were no brave individuals and counselors, we wouldn't have come anywhere. It has been a manifest violation of human rights in the case of deleted persons, while in the case of discrimination the problem is that in many cases it is very difficult to prove it. With the amendment, we are giving the opportunity to bring an action in the public interest or on behalf of the victims. If the action had been successful, the court would have prohibited acts that were discriminatory or prohibited the initiation of practices that could lead to discrimination. To that end, it would not be necessary for the applicant to obtain the consent of the victims, because these cannot be precisely identified or because he would not want to expose them. Nor could the counsel seek compensation as in individual cases, because he himself is not a victim and because the victim is not yet or is not known. However, it can achieve something that is very crucial in these cases, and this is already a preliminary prevention of discrimination. There are also good practices abroad where they have zero tolerance for these cases. In 2008, Feryn NV was convicted because the director stated that the company would not employ foreigners. The complaint was lodged by a body which in the Netherlands performs exactly the same function as that of the applicant. And so is the solution that we are proposing. In short, the applicant shall bring an action requiring the suspension of certain conduct or the prohibition of the initiation of such conduct, which would be potentially discriminatory. This is also the option of the authorities in the United Kingdom, and in Belgium it is not the majority of the republics of the former Yugoslavia. Discrimination is not usually an individual case, but is largely collective against members of one's nationality, sexual orientation and so on. So we can also draw some analogies. Trade unions may, for example, file a collective action in the event of a mass breach, not for individual cases, but for mass infringements, as the Union of Consumers may, for example, file a collective action in the public interest. In particular, nature-protection organisations are a case where a court may require the polluter to stop pollution, as in Article 14 of the Environmental Protection Act. In doing so, I would like to point out that this is not an arrangement that is non-systematic or reckless, which would spoil the purity of our legal system. This is an urgent complement to individual actions in cases where violations are also often mass. This is where I'd address myself to the government. The special action was envisaged as in the draft of November as draft of December 2015 and was later lost or withdrawn in some way. This is about explanations and also about protests that came from NGOs. We propose that this option only be given to the advocate, so that it can also be extended later if it turns out to be a tool that is necessary and, of course, also appropriate. I would also like to answer this question why this provision has been lost since the first drafts to date.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on referendum and human initiative within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. On 11 February 2016 and 5 April 2016, the draft law was examined by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the Committee did not adopt the articles of the draft law after the discussion, the president of the Committee found that the proposal for a law at the working body meeting had been closed. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In May 2013, not one of them was adopted, but quite two harmful changes to the Constitution. The first was a harmful fiscal rule in the Constitution, and the second was a strong restriction on the possibility of direct decision-making of electorates and voters in the referendum. In the United Left, we oppose all solutions that in practice mean lowering democratic standards and limiting public participation in the most important decisions. Amendments to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative are the result of a change in the Constitution, which means exactly that. As with all other missed measures, the main excuse for the need to save was to limit the decision-making capacity of the people at the referendum. The referendums are often to be abused and their implementation is to expensive. With such excuses, the authorities wanted only one thing: to prevent referendums on those key reforms that almost always go at the expense of citizens and citizens. And all such reforms can be hidden in one of the sections of the constitution that the referendum cannot be declared. In the United Left, we supported only one solution under article 90 of the Constitution, which is a clear ban on the referendum on human rights. But in the years since the referendum was in effect and the last decisions of the Constitutional Court, this provision has been completely invalidated. In practice, we have thus found ourselves in a situation where the authorities, by choosing the right law, can prevent a referendum on all harmful reforms or changes. However, when it comes to laws that eliminate unconstitutionalities in the field of human rights, there is no obstacle to the call for a referendum, and neither the Government nor the coalition nor the Constitutional Court clearly see any problem in this. More. The last two decisions of the Constitutional Court make it clear that the constitutional arrangements of the referendum will ensure that the referendum is banned every time already by hiding the desired measure in the right law. This was confirmed when the Defence Act was amended in dispute. For the Constitutional Court, it was a good enough argument by the Government that the amendment was necessary and that it was a defence of the state. How urgent the change was, in fact, is probably clear today. It has been more than four months since the amendment of the law and during the activation of the amendment. Four months is more than enough time for the referendum. With the guidelines drawn up by the Constitutional Court, it is therefore possible to conclude that the amendment to the Constitution is far more harmful than it may have seemed at first sight. Every time, changes are made, the authorities ensure that every referendum can be prevented under the cover of urgency. Well, except for the referendum on human rights. In practice, this means that the government, without any major problems, due to the urgency of course, for example, could once again reduce pensions, reduce and limit social rights, most likely reach even the minimum wage. The wills of the people will likely also try to avoid harmful secret agreements, which are currently in place. On the other hand, today we could call for referendums that were not allowed to be discussed before the constitutional change: a referendum on the rights of deleted persons, Roma, refugees and all other marginal groups. In order to prohibit the referendum on human rights, there would be no appropriate basis in the amended Constitution. None of the above-mentioned problems of the novel, which is before us, has solved or attempted to mitigate the harmful consequences of the constitutional change. More. The amendment even suggested that emergency laws should be enforced immediately, but if someone disagreed with them, they should be challenged before the Constitutional Court in return. In addition, the law would tightly narrow down the opportunities of the initiators to succeed before the Constitutional Court and place the authorities in an even more privileged position each time. In the United Left, we objected to this law. Not because of pangs or unwillingness to cooperate. The law was even worse than the constitutional changes. The law did not even try to prevent the most harmful consequences, and the law restricted the possibility of the referendum even more than the Constitution and placed the authorities in an even more privileged position each time. With all that has happened after the change in practice, much more than a change in law would be appropriate and a necessary change of constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the views of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u172	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the power of the people, citizens and citizens, which they exercise directly through elections, belongs to the democratic state. This is also provided for in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia, as in most democratic countries, people exercise their sovereignty as a rule through their representatives elected in elections, i.e. indirect democracy. The direct exercise of power, however, is a rarer but also an important form of democratic decision-making. As with the elections, voting at a referendum on the exercise of the constitutional right to direct decision, as set out in Article 44 concerning the third paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution, remains unchanged even after the last amendment of the Constitution. Although the proposed amendment to the law brought some changes that would be welcome in accordance with the principle of economy, the publication of the Act on the Call for Referendum and the text of the Act only on the website of the National Assembly, the Government, the State Election Commission and on the websites of administrative units, then the removal of physical forms to support the request for a referendum. In Novi Slovenije we welcomed these changes, including the solution that, in the case of a request for a constitutional review of the finding of the National Assembly on the inadmissibility of the referendum, the proclamation of the law would be possible only after the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted. Notwithstanding the solutions, Christian Democrats cannot understand the Government's persistent and flat-rate assertion that it is necessary to delete the provision of Article 25 of the current law, which provides that the National Assembly should not adopt a law one year after the referendum decision has been announced, which would be substantively contrary to the voter's decision, despite the numerous arguments put forward at the meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government, despite the extensive debate on the amendments tabled by New Slovenia. Indeed, the Constitutional Law of May 2013 is a legislative referendum at the new office and it is stated that the National Assembly is no longer bound by the outcome of the referendum, but it is also true that in our country, which is supposed to be democratic, has power in the hands of the people. It is unacceptable that, despite the clearly expressed referendum will of citizens, the National Assembly could immediately or in a very short time re-adopt a law with the same content as the content of the already rejected law at the referendum. The applicant's claim that it is not expected that the legislator will ignore a particular solution so that he can immediately take the same decision again is completely irrelevant and even misleading in this case. This shows the last referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The fact is that the will of the voters who voted is so clear and strong that it is in no way possible to ignore it, and in this case we cannot talk about the constitutional principle of human sovereignty and democracy to which the proposaler himself referred at the outset. In our Group of Members, we draw attention to another weakness. There is therefore an opportunity for every law to be taken against the initiative for an ex-legislative referendum by some narrow political or interest groups and the work of the National Assembly as a legislator is least difficult, if not even impossible. And we know these cases these very days. These initiatives are increasingly persistent, more and more recently, and your ruling coalition should also have a response to this change so that these consensus conflicts do not arise. The referendum initiatives should therefore, in fact, be limited only to the really important social issues to which the general public will be identified and the conditions for its submission should therefore be tighter. The government is now awaiting a retrial on the fact that the deadline for the harmonisation of the law with the constitutional law has expired on 14 May 2014, and it would be difficult to say that, despite the arguments, we will be discussing a new proposal for a referendum and a public initiative soon again in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. We have before us a document that we've been waiting for a long time and is already in the process of delay. This is because, after examining the situation and qualitative analysis of the documents, we find that it would be better to approach the new creation of the law. Why? Because it's about changing the concept. This is a change from the confirmatory referendum to the rejection referendum. And because of a completely different concept, the structure and the whole nomotechnician to the other legislation must be different. We are also changing a larger number of articles, and it is also appropriate to re-organise the subject. What's the biggest problem? The problem is possible blockades, to which we are also witnessing at the present time, because those who have made changes have not foreseen all possible solutions. The Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out the problems because it mainly points out the narrowing of the possibility of the initiative. In particular, he drew attention to the problems raised by the Council of State, which points out that there is a limited referendum initiative, that the subject of the decision is also limited to content and, in particular, an increase in the legitimacy threshold. In view of all the above, it is certainly not expected that we will soon be witnessing a new solution. It is about the need for coordination, a broader consensus in society and not just talking about the principle of economics and the fact that the deadlines are ahead and the matter needs to be settled. The greatest danger I see on my own is that we have the possibility of a creative interpretation of the law. Again, on the basis of the opinions paid, it comes to a very creative interpretation of the law, and under the pretext, as I mentioned earlier, that the deadlines are ahead and the economy in this crisis, which we are witnessing, then we are taking solutions, in particular by the Government, which is not appropriate. Therefore, we have not supported the proposed amendments in the Group of Non-Aligned Members and we expect a completely different concept to be prepared as soon as possible by the Government to act creatively in the area to which it is in charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dr Mitja Horvat will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear representative of the Ministry of Public Administration, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today is obviously a day of deliberation, and even in the Referendum and Human Initiative Act we can find out the same thing. Those who have changed the Constitution and set a one-year deadline for amending the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative in some areas point out that some deadlines are exceeded, while there is obviously no major problem in this case. As has already been said, we have already exceeded this deadline for two years, and it is high time to come to terms and to start serious and constructive discussions to come up with solutions that we should have had long ago, that is, in the previous reference. So it remains for us, at today's coalition, to draw up a proposal and in my opinion the Ministry of Public Administration and consequently the Government has taken this issue seriously and responsibly and due to constitutional changes, which makes it a narrow circle of authorised candidates only to electorate for referendum decision, from which, after amending the Constitution, the decision on laws in the field of defence, security, natural disasters, taxes, budget implementation, ratification of international treaties and, as has been properly established today, I should repeat once again on human rights. With regard to the human rights guaranteed by this Constitution, of course, we cannot have referendums when it comes to deciding where the unconstitutional issues have been resolved, whether found or not, which, of course, requires us to react and we do not consent to the misdirection that arises in this regard, as we do. Sometimes it suits us, we want respect for human rights and the Constitution, and when it does not suit us, of course we talk about it quite differently. The proposed law also contains other amendments that would allow for its more effective implementation in practice, improve the referendum procedure and provisions to reduce the costs of implementing the referendum. This is one of the basic steps that actually dictated a change in the constitution at that time: saving, saving, saving, and costing. The introduction of an electronic procedure for collecting 40,000 signatures to support the request for a referendum is envisaged, and if the law were adopted, physical collection of support forms would no longer be necessary. Their intervention to the proposer was also ensured. The proposed regulation foresees that the law decided at the referendum would no longer be sent to all households, but would be published on the public authorities’ website. Only in the last two held referendums could it save €120,000. Additional savings would also be made when printing forms, as an electronic way of collecting signatures on administrative units would be introduced. The negative consequences of the law would only require the upgrading of the electoral justice information system to a single amount of €40,000. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we support the proposed amendments, we have also voted for them and we thank the Ministry of Public Administration for the effort made and the well-prepared proposal of the law. We regret that the elected representatives of the opposition parties have not supported this reference to the bill for a variety of reasons, read the excuses, and therefore did not receive the required two-thirds majority, although following a decision they themselves made three years ago. As the law did not get the necessary two-thirds majority, unfortunately the procedure on the labour force ended, instead of discussing and adopting the necessary amendments today in order to have the law in line with constitutional changes. We regret and hope that in the future something will be better, that not only stubbornness and political points will be the reason for not accepting good proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u178	With the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the coalition wanted to definitively end the commitment of the National Assembly to the decision of the people at the referendum, while at the same time eliminating all effective control mechanisms in the process of collecting signatures and also later. Although the coalition changed its mind about the State Assembly's commitment to the people's decision at the referendum later, unfortunately, it did not want to compromise on the control mechanisms. We have therefore not supported the amendments to the Referendum and Human Initiative Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Given that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recently noted that the amended referendum regime also allows abuse and obstruction of the legislative procedure, we would like to recall our proposal that the referendum regime should be regulated by the Swiss system. Then the referendum and the legislative procedure would be completely separate. Once again, we would increase the democratic level of decision-making in Slovenia. If the coalition decided to change the referendum regime in this direction, we would be happy to participate in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u180	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, Mr Minister and representatives of the Government! In early March, the SDS Group tabled a proposal for a consultation referendum on the accommodations of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia. Voters and voters are expected to order this referendum to the Government and Parliament to stipulate by law that the number of asylum seekers should not exceed the number of asylum applications in 2015. Specific annual quotas for asylum seekers have not yet been provided, but according to some data only 277 applications for asylum should be submitted annually by refugees. In doing so, the applicant formally refers to Article 44 of the Constitution, which states only that every citizen has the right to participate, in accordance with the law, directly or through elected representatives, in the conduct of public affairs. Therefore, it may also participate in the exercise by elected representatives. When it comes to deciding this way and when it comes to a referendum, there is nowhere to be determined or clearly left to political judgment. More. The Constitution only provides for a legislative referendum and does not mention an advisory referendum, while prohibiting the call for a referendum on laws of urgency to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. This is because the candidates in the proposal for a referendum state that migrants are a serious security issue of the country. Therefore, consistent reading of the Constitution prohibits human decision-making on emergency measures to ensure the security of the State. In explanation of the proposal, we can read that the migrant wave will continue and even increase this year and that the return of migrant groups from Austria to Slovenia is already under way and poses a risk that Slovenia will become a pocket for migrants through the abuse of international protection legislation, that we do not have a regulated situation in the police and the military, that the Government of Migration issues is not properly engaged. Therefore, people in municipalities where the Government intends to establish migrant centres are protesting. They also argue that the migrants of Slovenia would cost as much as € 144 million per year and so on. But if we start with money, it would be worth asking whether it would not be more useful to spend 3 to 4 million, as much as it costs to carry out a referendum elsewhere. Also for the care of refugees who want to stay in Slovenia. The refugee picture in Europe, and in particular in Europe, after the relatively successful closure of the Balkan route, also shows that not only did the applicants fail at the cost of refugees, but also at other forecasts and allegations. There is no arrival of migrants in Slovenia since 5 March, nor is there any return of migrants from Western Europe. Slovenia has not become a migrant pocket. Slovenia is no longer part of the transit route. Despite some of the problems, the government has successfully solved the problems related to the refugee wave. There were no serious security complications, including the safety of the population and, lastly, the refugees [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please, is something funny? [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u181	Mr Benedict Kopmeyer, this is not the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u182	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u183	This is not the agenda item. The agenda item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u184	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you, Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I think I'll read the right one. We regret that three years after the adoption of constitutional amendments to the 1990s, 97th and 99th Articles of the Constitution concerning the regulation of the legislative referendum, we can today see that the procedure for the adoption of the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative has ended after the constitutional changes in May 2013 were supported by 86 votes from Members and Members, i.e. by a plebiscite majority. With the support of constitutional changes, we have come from the assessment that there are acceptable reasons for amending the referendum regime. The amendments allow access to the referendum to be restricted, but they must not prevent the people from refusing to reject the laws adopted in the National Assembly. On the other hand, laws adopted by the relevant majority in the National Assembly cannot destroy a handful or a significant minority of all voters, which the Constitution governs by a prescribed quorum. It was also important that the policy should only be limited in the application of referendum requirements. At the time of the adoption of the constitutional amendments mentioned above, the National Assembly also undertook to implement within one year the relevant amendments and amendments to the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, which will be consistent with the Constitution. A member of the Section, who participated in the drafting of constitutional amendments and also participated in the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, said that this law was extremely important not only because of the deadline for its implementation but also because of the 21st Article of the Act, which provided for its operationalisation or the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90. He warned that this non-operationalisation has also proved to be a major problem. Unfortunately, we are moving further away from this deadline, but not because of the Social Democrats. We have the same attitude over and over again, regardless of our coalition or opposition party status, to limit the mass investment of referendum requirements in a reasonable way. Social Democrats are constantly aware that the process of adopting constitutional changes has not ended, as it needs to be properly concluded at the legislative level. We also know that any delay in harmonising the law with the Constitution can pose problems in the adoption of the law. Not only because of the new power relations and new faces in the National Assembly, but also because the referendum can be implemented in different practices instead of in a legal procedure. That is why we cannot accept an explanation that the adoption of the law does not mean that we do not know the referendum without a law that is in line with the Constitution. It is therefore also the responsibility of those political parties that have supported constitutional changes and have not committed their support to the law. What it means to reject the law on referendum and people's initiative is also reflected in the activities of individual groups which, with the initiative to collect signatures for the invitation to tender, actually slow down the functioning of the legislative branch of government. Social Democrats would therefore like to recall here that the very mass investment of referendum requirements has caused a lot of negative consequences for our society and the country, together with its subsystems. Let us recall the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the admissibility of the referendum on pension reform in 2011, although that reform was then an essential proof of Slovenian reform orientation also for the global financial markets. The fall of pension reform has had a significant impact on Slovenia's credit ratings, which have begun to decline radically, and the consequences are still significant today. Such decisions have caused us to lose, mainly, and only people. I should like to conclude with the following mentioned in the research project Legal arrangements for the referendum and the human initiative of 2000. "If the referendum is to be an effective form of direct democracy, it should only be used as an exception to the most important political issues, but it is not appropriate to decide on very difficult professional and complex issues, especially if they cannot be created with transparent and understandable alternative solutions." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the draft law has been completed. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on infringements following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u188	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Act on Offences was adopted in 2005. During that time, he was renovated nine times, so to speak, he changed in one way or another each year. It is a law that touches almost every citizen. Almost every citizen commits a crime sooner or later. Last year and 2014 we did not change it. The change that we are bringing before you today is considered to have arisen on the basis of empirical data, an analysis of the situation both in the area of criminal authorities and in the final decision-making court in the final case of criminal proceedings. Two constitutional decisions came in between. One had abolished the abolition prison, as it had been regulated, the other had to do with the issue of obsolescence in relation to the fines already paid. The government is convinced that the proposal before you, honourable Members and Members, is premeditated and that it follows the perceptions of practice. Of course, it is an area where there are many different opinions. A prison where anyone who owed the country 120 euros or more had to go to prison, which was supposed to make him pay that fine, to a store of history if this law was adopted. But we're instituting a surrogate prison. However, the substitute prison, while aware that for offences, is an exemption and should be an exception to the Court of Justice and the rule of law, requires equality before the law to require that special returnees, as well as those who are also presented in the draft law, who do not pay, through several different procedures, thousands of euros in fines, often carrying out similar offences either in road transport or in the field of public order and peace, and are not willing to serve those penalties, or work in general benefit, will henceforth have to be held in a so-called substitute prison, which we have summarised under certain foreign arrangements where matters are relatively well-run. We are renewing the entire Institute of Work to the general benefit and the remuneration of fines. We allow the independent development of administrative sanctions in certain areas. In the Government’s view, it is neither right nor acceptable that infringements, for example, competitive or banking legislation, are put before the same procedure as infringements of road traffic rules or public policy and peace rules. We are opening the door for administrative remedial measures known to countries where criminal law is effective and fair, for example, the Netherlands, where before the settlement of the fine either by paying the fine, by socially beneficial work or by substitute imprisonment, you do not perform the infringements you have committed and cannot obtain certain State credits. We enable the establishment of a single information system to monitor offences, which has now been fragmented and for a country the size of the Republic of Slovenia is absolutely insufficient and unacceptable. We handle, I'll say what is a disorder in the area of obsolete time limits for offences and we are burdening red tape related to offences for all criminal authorities and these are in the Republic of Slovenia on dozens. The government is convinced that this is a step in the right direction that will strengthen the rule of law, treat offenders equally and remove administrative obstacles. Finally, if the business conditions regarding the amendments adopted and tabled are met, as Minister, I also propose that a third consideration of the proposed law be held at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u190	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 20th regular meeting, on 6 April 2016, the Committee of Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 26 April 2016. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the Commission of the Council of State and of the Council of Justice and of the definition of the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In a supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the proposer, Mr Darko Stare, presented the essential solutions to the draft law, which was created in cooperation with a number of stakeholders in several sections of the expert debates and coordination. In her presentation, the representative of the Law and Law Service Špela Macek Gustin focused on the content of the comments on Articles 1 and 8 of the bill. Article 1 points out the indeterminability of the concept of "administrative sanctioning legal persons", which is intended to be newly excluded from the scope of the law. This is a legally undeclared institute which, if implemented, would allow different interpretations and thus complicate them in practice. With regard to Article 8, which introduces a new alternative prison institution, it listed the essential shortcomings of the proposed solutions. It even wonders whether this institute, in view of the uncertainties described in the normative text, will be able to be implemented in practice at all. National Councillor Jernej Verbič stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law for state regulation and particularly welcomes the procedure for its adoption. With regard to the introduction of a replacement prison, they wonder whether this measure will achieve its preventive purpose if it is able to carry it out substantially later than the offence itself, perhaps only ten years from now. They are also critical of the proposed resolution of Article 24 of the draft law, which, under certain conditions, allows for interference in the confidentiality of letters and communications in the infringement procedure if the violation of the constitutional prohibition against the promotion of inequality, violence, intolerance against national, racial, religious and other particularly vulnerable groups is reported. Senior State Prosecutor Janja Vrečič Perhavec of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office stressed that the applicant partly took their comments into account. However, they are opposed to the introduction of a replacement prison, as instead of the removal, there would be more in place of the removal of the established non-constitutional procedural cauldrons at the Institute of Removal Penitentiary. In the case of the Ombudsman, according to Deputy Ombudsman Ivan Shelih, they are critical to the above-mentioned exclusion of the administrative sanctioning of legal persons from the law. They also wonder why it is possible to apply for a round payment of the fine only during the enforcement phase. Nor do they support the proposed regime of alternative prisons, as Slovenian prisons are already overstretched. The representative of the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Dr Dragan Petrovec, also expressed opposition to the introduction of a replacement prison. He pointed out that all the years since the implementation of the applicable law on offences, the whole pennological practice and the anti-refoulement prison profession have been in force. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Council of Justice, which points out that the law in force has become inextricable due to a number of changes and should soon be approached in its integrated simplification. In the debate, it was heard from coalition parties that most of the proposed solutions were urgently needed due to perceived problems in practice. First of all, the criticism of the introduction of a new substitute prison and the aforementioned provisions of Article 24 of the draft law, which is intended to censor freedom of speech, was repeated from the mouth of representatives of the opposition parties. However, the argument should also be that the lower limit of EUR 300 should be set to replace the payment of the fine and the costs of the work procedure in general if this means that no sanctions will be imposed on the service of offences where the fine may be imposed under this amount. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 7, 8, 24, 29 and 45 of the SMC, Desus and SD. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 8 and 24, but did not vote on the amendments of the same Group of Members by Articles 19, 29 and 31, as they became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation was prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the views of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u192	Your Honor! The primary purpose of this time, already the 10th Amendment to the Offences Act, is to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2014 to abolish the Institute of Refoulement and, consequently, the comprehensive reform of the system of recovery of the fines imposed and the costs of the procedure. Even though we understand the intention and desire of the proposer of this law to improve the legislation and the more effective work of the criminal authorities, we stress that, too often, the amendment of the law hampers more than facilitates its implementation. Christian Democrats point out that the offence law is a system law and is justified only if there are substantial substantive reasons for doing so. We are confident that, like the prison which has been put away so far, the proposed alternative prison will not ensure the successful recovery of fines for offences. Despite the fact that the offender will now pay the fine, the smaller offenders who repeat the offenses may remain unpunished. As a last resort, it will not be possible if the amount of all fines does not amount to a total of thousands of euros and each individual normally at least 300 euros. Infringers entitled to free legal aid will continue to count that minor offences will not actually be sanctioned. On the other hand, it is also a question of the proportionality of this measure, since in prison, those who, given the severity of the offences committed, will be at least at risk to society. It's interesting to look at the following data. From 2005 to 2014, fines were unpaid for more than 158 thousand offences. Mostly due to driving without a driver's license. In the last ten years, the recorder among offenders has received 757 fines of more than €56 000. And what can we learn from this? A large number of cases where the fines imposed do not have their effect, given that the prison substitute is intended to be for multiple offenders and for perpetrators of worse offences, from which it was not possible to recover such a record fine, will not be able to fully pay the fine after today's novelty with the prison served. It would be much better for the applicant to arrange the procedural guarantees in the prison, which was also disputed by the Constitutional Court. Given that the applicant does not yet know in practice how the translation of the fine into a substitute prison will work, this is what the Ministry of Justice has written down in its definition to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we rightly ask what will be the report on the implementation of the law in this work in a year or two. The possibility of replacing the fine with work in general is also questionable only if the fine is at least EUR 300. Given that a large proportion of the fines are pronounced in the lower amounts of EUR 300 and that most of these offenders have neither income nor property or are so small that they are entitled to free legal aid, it is questionable to establish a lower limit for work in general benefit of EUR 300. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the possibility of replacing the payment of the fine by work with a general benefit or with a substitute prison should be placed in such a way as to achieve the general preventive purpose of punishing all criminal proceedings. It is also unacceptable for us to intervene in the confidentiality of letters and other communications if this is absolutely necessary to obtain information to detect a particular offence and its perpetrator. We believe that in this case there is a serious and unacceptable interference with communication privacy, even though the amended proposal no longer infringes on the right to communication privacy regarding hate speech offences. Since the solutions brought about by the amendment of this law will not contribute to greater compliance with the rules or to a more successful recovery of fines, we will support the proposal and we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u194	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us the tenth amendment of legislation, which has been amended several times in recent years, which has led to impreciseness and procedural non-compliance. The debate on the Committee on Justice highlighted this even more. I have the impression that the legislator did not take into account the proposals and comments of those institutions which commit and deal with offences. It is the fact that we have listened to reasoned and serious comments by the State Prosecutor's Office, by the Ombudsman, the Legal and Legal Service, the Council of Justice, and to all of this a number of amendments have been proposed both by the coalition and by the opposition. Some heavy, others less substantial, but at the time of the vote, the opposition's proposals were rejected and confirmed in the coalition's proposals package. Finally, I was convinced by the argument of colleague Dragan Petrovec, who stands for the top of the penology profession in Slovenia and has identified himself to those negative cases in relation to the removal prison, and has highlighted even more vague and vague solutions in relation to the replacement prison. Colleague Dragan Petrovec is the top of the penological profession even if we look at the Sicris system, where it shows how much someone is worth in our Slovenian profession. The proposed amendments following this legislation are trying to resolve certain matters, but I believe that the matter is so inconsistent and so irreparable that it will not solve the matter, nor will it help to make the law functional. For all the reasons stated in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we cannot support the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mag. Liliana Kozlovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u196	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! Infringements are criminal acts according to their content. This is also the case with legal theory, and so is the Constitutional Court's decision and, as has already been said today, they are essentially touching each and every one of us. We separate basically two categories. Those who appear to constitute only a violation of the law, while the second part is one that constitutes an infringement of the rights of another which threatens the rights of another and which very often threatens and harms public benefits. In 2003, an amendment was adopted or was made to a long-standing law on offences, for which it was found that at that time it did not give the State authorities sufficient opportunity to carry out their functions, their positive obligation to enable the exercise of the rights of individuals. It turned out to have had very large gaps, so it came into force in 2005 with many systemic changes. If we recall, at the time, 92 thousand violations were written off. Individuals were simply written off. And even though this law has been in force for a long time since 2005, it has, as has been said, been amended nine times, this is the tenth novel. The Ministry of Justice, through a long-standing analysis, has found that it is still not stable. For the period 2011 to 2015, we note that 40 % of unrecovered fines remain. We're talking 49 million. Therefore, the proposal that we have before us today is once again complementing the law with a series of systemic measures that should allow the state to be much more effective. Criminal authorities are being burdened by transferring certain procedural acts to Furs, by referring to the possibilities of remuneration as well as to the general benefit of work, the announcement of judicial protection, which is around 80% of the criminal decisions issued, not against them, or against them, or is not being enforced, and it is therefore reasonable that, in such a case, if it is announced, there is also no justification, which burdens the authorities. Furthermore, the collection of criminal records is in one place, which we know is very important in today's information era. And as a last resort, the very extreme measure that I hear today in the parliamentary groups that it is controversial is a substitute prison. It could be said that the removal prison is much more controversial, since many more people had to be deprived of their liberty. However, the replacement prison is directed at those persons who commit one or more offences and exceed the amount of this fine over EUR 100. However, it is also important that these are persons who have the capacity to pay. So it's about people, some 17% of them are people who don't respect a legal decision, even though they have the possibility of preventing their freedom all the time. A substitute prison ensures equality before the law and a just rule of law. The fact is, we have two categories of people in this country. The vast majority who commit an offence are aware that they have committed it, and they also make amends to the fine. While the other group, which is smaller and does not pay the fine, is very careful and effective in avoiding paying fines, it is also threatening other members of this community, whether in the family or elsewhere, with repetition and with the services of offences. The Institute of Replacement Prisons is legally new, and substantively, I must say, somehow not, but it is certainly much more fair than the removal prison. Its layout at the end of the chain shows that all other options are exhausted and used, which are less intensively affecting the rights of the perpetrator. We are talking about the principle of internal enlarging. In addition, it provides all the procedural guarantees required by the Constitutional Court in prison, and this is also confirmed by the Legislative and Legal Service after all discussions on the working body. The bill gives the state leverage to fulfil its duty and, from the perspective of the rule of law, eliminates two categories of people in our country and therefore deserves the support of the SMC and the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Secretary! We therefore have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences. The adoption of new solutions therefore requires care, thoughtfulness and responsibility. Continued changes in the area of wrongdoing can lead to impreciseness, uncertainty, and legal certainty. The representative of the Ministry, Mr State Secretary, pointed out to the Committee on Justice on the amendment of the Law on Offences in the introductions that the changes under consideration were systemic on the one hand and some editorial changes on the other. It is worth noting, however, that a number of comments have been made on the proposed amendments to the Law on Offences. In doing so, they highlighted concerns about repeated legal changes in the area of offences, which leads to impreciseness and legal danger for the average citizen. In view of the above, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we expected that the justice ministry would still go to some solutions more carefully, more prudently and more responsibly, especially because the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in their opinion, the Commission for State regulation in the Council of State, the representatives of the prosecution, Dr Petrovec at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, drew attention to the indiscretion of individual proposed solutions, in particular with regard to the alternative prison, which as a new institution replaces the removal prison. This is an extremely difficult issue in this area, and we have therefore considered that these solutions should be reconsidered and carefully considered in the SDS Group. That is why we have already proposed, on the Committee on Justice and today again, an amendment to delete this institution. The Constitutional Court did not find that the removal prison would be unconstitutional as such, but only found a lack of procedural guarantees. Therefore, we believe that it would be more useful to actually regulate procedural guarantees, rather than to replace the institution of correctional prisons with a substitute prison, which constitutes a form of enforcement of the fine. Otherwise, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we welcome the solution in the novel, which provides for stricter conditions for return to the worst traffic security offences for the return of a temporary driver's licence and the suspension of the expiry of the driver's licence. We are primarily talking about crimes caused by either speed or alcohol. In view of all of this, we will not support or oppose the proposed amendment to the Law on Offences in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We expect that the coalition will now listen to legal experts in the debate, listen to the Legal and Legal Service, listen to the prosecution, listen, as it said, to Dr Petrovec, and support our amendment proposing the deletion of the article governing the surrogate prison, and reconsider, carefully and responsibly, the proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The adoption of the amendment to the Law on Offences has been subject, inter alia, to two decisions of the Constitutional Court, namely a decision to exclude the right to repay the fine paid in the event of a stay of proceedings for a misdemeanour and a decision repealing the institution of refoulement. In view of the fact that a prison is being abolished, the institute of alternative prisons is now being established instead. However, the already established regime for replacing the fine with work is also being renewed to the general benefit. Among other things, it is provided that the offender’s inability to pay the fine is linked to the same material criterion as in the case of the granting of free legal aid. Thus, the new fine, which will not be paid in due time, will be settled in a way that will lead to recovery first, and may also be paid by hand and work for the general benefit, as the last option is to introduce a replacement prison. The novelty brings some other important solutions, some systemic and others more operational and technical. In addition to those already mentioned as systemic changes, for example: a new system of interest rate payment arrangements for fines and costs, followed by the opinion of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. It also extends the territorial validity of the law to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces on missions abroad. The amendment also lays down exceptions to infringements of confidentiality of letters and other publications. With regard to this provision, we have listened to the opinion of the Coalition's parliamentary group by the Information Officer, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. These institutions have pointed out that the intervention could be unstoppable in view of the disproportionateity of interference with the right to privacy in relation to hate speech offences. On the one hand, we have the sanctioning of hate speech and on the other hand the right to private communication and the protection of personal data. Therefore, we have tabled amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups for the parental board meeting, with which we have reserved the content of this provision only with regard to interference with the right to the communication privacy of legal persons when it comes to infringements in the field of competition protection and in the field of the electricity or natural gas market. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are pleased to note that a number of inter-ministerial and professional coordination has been carried out in the drafting of the law and that many proposals from different stakeholders have been taken into account. Respected and respected! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Vice President, again for your word. After the day of the debate on the partnership and protection against discrimination and the conclusion of the legislative procedure for the amendment of the Referendum Law, we have only a discussion on the important 10th Amendment to the Offences Act. In presenting the position of the Social Democrats Group, we will draw on the proposaler's assessment that the area of criminal law, despite many changes and additions, is still not fully stable. There are a number of systemic issues and dilemmas that have been raised, although, through judicial practice and the practice of criminal authorities, the institutions of criminal law are developing, as has already been said, the tenth amendment. This amendment aligns the law with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, namely, with regard to the right to repay the fines unduly paid to persons who, in criminal proceedings, have been subject to a judicial decision or a decision amending, abolishing or repealing the decision and proceedings against it in the event of a statute of limitations and in relation to the abolition of the institution of refoulement. Instead of removing the prison, this amendment introduces a replacement prison. In the debate at the home work body, representatives of the Supreme State Prosecutor and the Ombudsman objected to this institution, representatives of the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, and Dr Petrovec gave some relevant information and arguments as to why much of the peneological profession opposes this institution. When introducing this institute, it will be interesting to monitor how it will in practice prove itself or whether it will help improve the payment of fines. Here, however, I would like to highlight some of the objectives that will help us to support this novel by the Members and Members of the Social Democrats. These objectives are: to extend the territorial application of the Law on Offences and Certain Material Regulations to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces on missions abroad; to amend or re-establish the system-wide placement of the Institute for Remuneration of Fines and Costs of Procedure; to systemically harmonise the time limits for the limitation of the prosecution of offences; to establish the legal basis for intervention in the confidentiality of letters and other cases in the event of an investigation of a round of offences in the field of competition with electricity or natural gas, and to offences which constitute a violation of the constitutional prohibition against the promotion of inequality, violence, intolerance against national, religious, racial or other particularly vulnerable groups. The solutions proposed are intended to provide a uniform case-law regarding the return of the temporary driver's licence and the decision to enforce the termination of the driving licence. The institute for the replacement of fines by work is also being renewed to the general benefit and simplification of the procedure for determining work for the general benefit. In the media, we have traced information that we have offenders, recorders who have been able to produce over 100 fines over ten years. We believe that something like this should never happen again in the future. However, not because of outdated deadlines and threats with substitution imprisonment, but because of the greater effectiveness of the criminal authorities in obtaining fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. President. Last time a nice hello! The Offences Act is one of the laws most likely to meet citizens and citizens in everyday life. This is perfectly logical, since all the offences committed under this law are committed, as our legislation knows them. I'm sure a lot of them have met him before. It is clear from this that this is an important matter that concerns each and every one of us. Changes should be rare and, above all, well-thought-out. However, it is 10 years since the implementation of the comprehensive reform of the Law on Offences, and today we are considering the 10th Amendment. None of them have brought small harmonisation changes or remediation of shortcomings in practice. In general, any novelty introduces a new institute or completely changes any existing one, and this certainly has no positive effects in practice. And this time it's no different. Although the proposal makes quite a few changes, it is again stated in the state assessment that there are even more problems in this area, but these will be eliminated by the next amendment, which is already in preparation. In the Ministry of Justice, such records appear practically in each proposal or opinion. When it comes to a government proposal, it excuses half of the problem being solved when it comes to an opposition proposal, which is the reason for the opposition in a way: we support, we agree, but further reflection is needed, so we will include the proposals in a novel that is already in preparation. It is a pity that the time for further reflection by the coalition and the government do not take up the proposal that we are considering today. The law has been involved in interdepartmental coordination and public debates on several occasions. But each time it was a different proposal with different solutions. So today we have a novel that is uncoordinated, which does not address the concerns of the profession, which does not take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. If we look at crime statistics, it is clear that the country is completely ineffective in two things. It is completely ineffective on the prevention and reduction side of the number of offences. As far as fines are concerned, the word is almost ineffective. The unrecovered fines account for an incredible 60%. As the last sanction in the law in force, the non-payers were in prison for removal. Since the provisions relating to it have been repealed by the Constitutional Court, the Ministry is now proposing a replacement prison. In the United Left, we feel that any prison is in no way a suitable solution. All that can be achieved by such a measure is that we have an even more critical situation in prisons and an even larger workforce. The real effect and, above all, the dissuasive functions under such sanctions will by no means be and will not be achieved. It's a very dissuasive function with us that's the biggest problem. Often there are cases where businesses, lawyers, doctors, and others are paid more to make up for their fines and simply to continue with their misdemeanours. As long as we look at traffic regulations, it is clear that the way to prescribe fines cannot achieve the desired dissuasive function, or the fine, they provide this function much more effectively for the materially weak. Someone with a car worth 100,000 euros on the road will not be exactly deterred by a fine of 100 or 200 euros from repeating the offence. What does the same punishment mean for someone without or with minimum income, you can only imagine. And even a substitute prison will most likely be hit by socially weaker ones who simply cannot pay fines, rather than those who either skilfully hide their assets or have enough to be punished simply not to move them. In the United Left, we believe that prevention and the proper provision of a deterrent function is what the Ministry and the State should pay more attention to. And prison, whether relievable or substitutable, is not a suitable solution for achieving such goals. Given the opposition of the profession, it would certainly have been better if the Minister had insisted on his position taken upon the decision of the Constitutional Court. At that time, we were able to hear the words that this institute was dead to him and that he would not propose any changes. I hope, according to the government, that wire is not a wire, today we will not listen to the claim that prison is not a prison. In the United Left, we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 8 and 29 are substantively linked, we will discuss these articles and the amendments tabled together. I shall put to the debate Articles 8 and 29 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group to both Articles. Anybody want to talk? Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled three amendments to the proposal for a law on offences, namely Articles 8, 24 and 29. As the Chair has already said, we are now talking about the two amendments to Articles 8 and 29, since they are substantively linked. I have already explained in the position of the Group that the Ministry of Justice should really be more weighed in some decisions, especially when we are talking about such an important issue as the removal jail. Mr Minister, you have received quite a few comments from the parties, I will say, legal experts, then by the prosecution, by Mr Petrovac, who is an expert in criminology, you have received the emphasis that this is not the best way to act, by the prosecution and so on. You have also been alerted to all of this on the Committee on Justice. But as a tank, you decided to do what you did. We have therefore tabled an amendment to Articles 8 and 29. Here I have to say that when we talk about the removal prison, it would be better to settle the lack of procedural guarantees than to replace the institute. For the Constitutional Court did not say anywhere that the removal prison was in any way unconstitutional. It didn't say that anywhere. So I don't understand why you went through all this force to make such a change in legislation, even though, as I have already said, the key players are really warning that this was not a good decision. That's why I'd like you to explain more precisely here. The prosecution, by the way, Mrs Janja Vrečič Perhavec, made it clear on the Committee on Justice that they insist that such a restructuring is not necessary, since the Constitutional Court has not found that there is an unconstitutional removal jail but only a lack of legal guarantees. The D.A. is also saying that this will complicate the process, because it is a new arrangement, a new competence, which will also foster later legal complications and procedural delays. And that's true, Mr. Secretary. Given that we are not exactly satisfied with the justice system, even though some steps are being taken that would plague a certain fate and that the resolution of certain cases would take place more quickly, even with the help of the Lukend project, which was implemented in 2007, but which makes such solutions more complicated. I would like to ask you a concrete answer to this question, why did you then go to these decisions, even though experts in this area have advised you to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Vice President. See, frankly, you cannot quote in the same paragraph either the SDS, or the United Left, or Member Dobovšek, who is no longer present, and the opinions of the State Prosecutor's Office are quoted by Dr Petrovec as being strongly opposed. Dr. Petrovec advocates the view that any prison sentence for any offence as a minimum level of criminal law is inappropriate. To tell you the truth, if I didn't know the statistics, I would be defending the same position as a person who has a very liberal view of criminal law. While the State Prosecutor's Office and the Legal and Legislative Service, as Parliamentary Irgle eloquently put it, actually says so, and this is true, the Constitutional Court did not say that the removal prison was in itself unconstitutional, but that it needed additional guardians. This government says that the removal prison is unfair and unfair. And this is the right of this government and this ministry. I understand you're defending the removal prison upgrade in that sense. After all, it was accepted by your government and survived by the left and right governments until a decision of the Constitutional Court was very late. Dr. Petrovec criticized this solution, even I, as long as I was, will say, in a civil society, criticized it. And she was criticized by the Ombudsman all the time. No government, left or right, has repealed and changed that. This was decided by the Constitutional Court. Although there was a lot of injustice in the middle. In individual years, 180 people were imprisoned because they owed 120 euros. At the time of the Minister of Justice's term of office, I announced that the Ministry of Justice would support this. That's your answer from the United Left. It's not the same prison. It's not the same prison. It's not the same prison. Prison is a prison, but for very different categories. You could be arrested for up to 30 days if you didn't pay a fine of 120 euros. That's when you peel that onion, let's face it. Thus, the prisons were full of single mothers and social cases. However, they were also full of serial infringements of road traffic regulations driven by unregistered vehicles and so on. But for 120 euros you didn't pay, they sent you to jail by 30. When you came out of prison, very domestically, you still owed 120 euros or more. Therefore, the removal jail was disproportionately pressured by social weaknesses, as work in the current unchanged Law on Offences that we are currently changing has also been significantly more complicated. So you could very quickly get out of the failure to pay that fine to prison for up to thirty days, which then went on essentially or again until you paid for it. Removal prison is something else entirely. Now let's go back to that. I'm also opposed to having someone go to jail for classic crimes that represent the lowest amount of crime. But there is a fact, and here we have made a thought. All those who say that this law needs to be reconsidered and so on. I absolutely agree. But I'm the first minister who didn't change the Offences Act in the first year of his term. You've seen for yourself how many changes there have been. Just because we had a very empirically based debate on what is happening in Slovenia in this area. And it happens that we have so many and so many thousands of people in Slovenia who commit crimes. Not that, you know, you're not attached to the seat belt. But crimes that endanger the lives of other people. You can't erase that. Even if you put them in custody for 30 days, they won't pay for it. Sometimes because they're at the bottom of the street, they can't pay for it. Sometimes because, I'm sorry, they don't want to pay for it out of spite, but they have somewhere else to go, and Furs can't take it for such or other reasons. That's why we introduced a system that seems logical. First of all, the first thing is, you have to pay a fine. She has to be paid by Jože, and she has to be paid by John. If you've committed a crime, you have to pay no matter what your financial situation is. If you can't pay the fine because of your financial situation, in the law you have before you, we've turned the work institute into a social benefit. So if you can't do that, of course, it's kind of unfair in general, but we live in this society, we live in Western society, if you can't pay, you can postpone it by working for the social benefit. Why did we put up 300 euros, as Nova Slovenije did? For practical reasons. Because we process work for the social benefit costs according to our calculations, according to the calculations of the Ministry of Labour and Family about 270 euros. This requires some supervision, reports, involvement of social work centres, etc. And since, in fact, these 300 euros of common punishment, the common fines represent the expression of someone who commits a multiple offence. Only if you're a special returnee, you're not willing to pay, Furs can't take a fine out of you, you're not willing to do that fine with a socially beneficial job, and then you're going to jail. This is the system in many European countries, and we have enacted such a system. It has nothing to do with the prison. It's something else. That's not what I'm saying. When you have a thousand euros in fines, this is not enough to achieve, for a thousand euros in fines that you are not ready or able to pay, but you are not even ready to do the job in Karitas, the Red Cross and so on, and then you are going to jail. I don't want that because I said I have a very liberal view of criminal law. But the fact is that statistics show us that so many and so many people in Slovenia are talking about thousands, which is also doing it. And due to equality before the law, we believe that this arrangement is appropriate. Here, when you refer in your performances also to the profession, please note that the profession here was very contradictory in its views. On the one hand, you have Dragan Petrovec, who is against any prison, which I can agree with at the principal level, on the other hand, you have an prosecution which is also against this because he says that the removal prison was pretty good. Well, by the way, the D.A. doesn't have anything to do with any of this, except the law enforcement requirements. This will be confirmed by Comrade Gorenak. The D.A.'s office has nothing special. Thus, we have tried to establish a system that some European countries know, that will allow equality before the law and actually sanction only those persons who are special returnees who avoid paying fines for offences that endanger the lives of others and who are not prepared to do so, in citing, pay even with socially beneficial work. In that sense, I hope to say that marriage is good. What's he gonna bring? We don't know what he's gonna bring. Just like we don't know what jailbreak brought. But let's put it on the scale. We had a 120-euro prison. Any single woman who hasn't paid her income or any road traffic offence could go to jail for 30 days. When she came out, she still owed. And this is replaced by a replacement prison where you have to be a special returnee of crimes that endanger life or public order. You have to owe thousands of euros to the country and you're not even willing to pay it off for social gain. Yes, and then in my liberal manner to criminal law, I think it's right that you go away because otherwise the rule of law does not work. And because they're all supposed to be the same before the law. Therefore, it is not fair that in the same paragraph some say, the profession has informed you that the law is not harmonised and that you refer to Dragan Petrovec and the State Prosecutor's Office because they had absolute opposite views. One is to keep the prison in check, to change with additional procedural guards, and the other is to never go to jail. I would stand on Dragan's side if I didn't have the information I have from the police and from the criminal authorities, that we also have people in this country who knowingly break laws many times and never answer for it. But we're talking about misdemeanors, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, just for the sake of the accuracy of the allegations. I didn't quote Mr. Petrovec. However, I have quoted Mrs Perhavec from the prosecution, and at the same time I have said that Mr Petrovec has many concerns about the replacement prison. That's what I said. However, I did not quote Mr Petrovec as to what he said on the Committee on Justice. I was not just talking about the two mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, who have a lot of concerns about alternative prisons, but I was also talking about some other legal experts. For example, Mr Hinko Jenul wrote the following in Legal Practice on 17 March 2016. First of all, it expresses its concern about the redesign of the fine recovery system with the new institute, i.e. the replacement prison. and warns, I quote: "The Constitutional Court has found not the unconstitutionality of the removal prison as such, but only the lack of procedural guarantees. This has allowed for regulatory corrections to ensure that an already tested legal institution is maintained effective in practice." Such a dictatorship did not arise in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but it was also recorded in the Legal Practice. And I've talked about such experts before. Now, given that this debate, as I see it, is developing in the direction that our amendments to Articles 8, 29 and 24 will obviously not be accepted, we have considered in the SDS, and we will not support the law because we cannot, Mr Minister. Because he's making reckless moves. I think when we talk about such important things, which are also about human rights issues, we must be more careful. Even if that's what the rest of us are aware of. I'm not talking about politics. I'm talking about the professional public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u212	Dear Member, Mrs Eva Irgle. I respect your opinion. However, I would like you to be so considerate even when you voted in favour of the abrogation of last year's non-constitutional prison, the regime as it was, was met by the Constitutional Court. After the Constitutional Court considers that in Slovenian prisons, you were an MP in all these mandates, about 5,000 people have been imprisoned in Slovenia. I understand your concern. I believe he won't bring a prison like this, and I've explained why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Lilliana, Master of Lilliana Kozlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you, Chairman for your word. I also have to agree that space punishment is not supposed to exist, but the fact is that we have a space sentence. I was on my own committee when we spoke, and Dr Petrovec and the prosecution, and let me say that I fully agree that it was completely contradictory and that this cannot be equated. As for the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, when it was also said that it was disputed. Finally, she agreed with the State Secretary's explanations and the only thought she had here was the issue of administrative enforcement. This is not about punishment, this is about enforcement, this is not about punishment at all, and this is what the debate has been about the Legal and Legislative Service. As for Dr Petrovec, however, he spoke of the country's effectiveness in terms of September 11th, terrorism and how more and more measures are going towards limiting human rights. But he didn't explicitly say anything about a prison term. What's interesting is that somehow he's defending a prison. Earlier, it was said who landed everything in a prison for removal, including single mothers. Many more people are those who have been deprived of this freedom, but this is because they may not have had the means to pay. So the replacement prison in our system is a new but comparative regulation, Austria has this very well arranged or Croatia and is running. We often introduced new systems in the country, and we also relied on comparative arrangements. It is also a condition that a law can be adopted, that you have a comparative arrangement, that something is not new. Deleting this institute — what do we do about it? So we won't have any more options in the marriage. Indeed, in this case it will not be settled, so the state will not get the money. But if we delete — what are we going to do about it? Those worst violators who in the final phase have also allowed my human rights to write it down. With this amendment, we would actually do that. So I believe that this arrangement proposed by the Ministry of Justice is appropriate. Any shortcomings, I hope, not in the sense that, and I believe not, human rights violations will be able to manifest themselves in the process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Master Lilliani Kozlovich. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u216	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Partnership Relations Act in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 8b. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u217	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija, as we have already discussed today, we have tabled an amendment to introduce the possibility of objecting to conscience in the conclusion of the partnership law. Since we do not want to see internal tensions, internal problems of some who may view the partnership of two same-sex persons for religious, ethical or other reasons, it seems reasonable for them to be given the opportunity to object to their conscience and to marry such couples who decide on a partnership. This would also show the highest democracy to support the amendment of our New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, which gives the opportunity to object to the conscience of the natives, to all who are empowered to enter into a marriage and, last but not least, to be empowered to enter into a partnership of same-sex couples. In the light of one, I'm going to say, acceptances, we too will understand that you also understand all those who have internal problems. I quoted the president of the modern center of Dr. Cerar as saying. It would be right, and I hope you've thought about it and supported our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u218	Mr Saša Tabaković has an explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u219	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The proposed amendment of the New Slovenia Group would be contrary to the general principle of equality before the law provided by Article 14 of the Constitution. The objection to conscience proposed by the amendment would thus constitute inadmissible discrimination, since the Law on Marriage and Family Relations does not allow for this possibility of marriage, although even in the case of marriage, an official could refer to a personal, religious, philosophical or other legitimate reason for refusing the marriage between a man and a woman. Nor does the statement of objection allow the ZRIPS already in force. But we can't support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u220	An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you. In the United Left, we would like to point out two moments of this amendment. The first is strictly technical, or if we look from the point of view of the Constitution, the objection to conscience is something that is a fundamental right. But I think article 46 of the Constitution should be read in full. It reads: "The objection of conscience shall be admissible in cases determined by law, unless the rights and freedoms of other persons are thereby restricted." What New Slovenia is proposing with this amendment is nothing else. In short, an objection to conscience in this case would mean that one person, by its decision, intervenes in the rights of other persons. In this case, two people who want to make a partnership. The second argument, however, is somewhat more logical or substantive. We must take the objection of conscience very seriously, for which purpose actually exists. The objection to conscience is applied in some extreme situations, in extreme cases. The most beautiful illustration is likely a talk of conscience in the ministry or military service, where for some personal ethical, philosophical, or other reasons, someone may refuse to shoot another person. However, a parent, an authorised representative or a chief of an administrative unit in this case is not placed in such a situation. In fact, this situation is comparable to when, for example, a teacher in elementary school, a teacher of biology in an objection to the conscience did not want to teach a scientific theory of evolution or anything like that. Or if I caricose further, if someone in the administrative unit from his personal, philosophical, religious or other beliefs does not wish to issue a driver’s license or a traffic permit to a person who is a Romani, a black man or something like that. In such cases the objection to conscience is inadmissible, and in this case this amendment, I think, is on the verge of unconstitutionality, so that is already some basic reason why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u222	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. I am adjourning the session in 15 minutes because Mrs Vojka Shergan does not operate the voting device and we need so much time to train the system because everyone has to have the right to vote. We'll pick it up at 6:25.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must inform you at the same time that the technical difficulties are too great, so that we continue at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u224	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Unfortunately, I must inform you that the technical problem is too severe and that is why we will vote tomorrow in the context of the vote. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which we resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
